--Courtesy Western History Collections, University of Oklahoma Library ©Copyright: July, 1997.
 Art T. Burton As we move toward the millennium I feel more strongly than ever that Bass 	Reeves was the most important lawman in the Indian Territory and one of the 	greatest frontier heroes in our country's history.
 The research on his life 	is ongoing and I believe we will learn even more in the future about his outstanding 	dedication and commitment to duty, which will vindicate my Bass Reeves mania.
 Hopefully the location where he was buried in Muskogee, Oklahoma will be found.
 Below are four articles from the two major newspapers in Muskogee, early in 	the century.
 They are the Muskogee Phoenix and the Muskogee Times Democrat.
 The articles discuss Reeves career during his sickness and after his death.
 The articles were written after statehood when bias and prejudice against African 	Americans was very strong, some of the comments reflect that mindset.
 But still 	it is very impressive testimonials from two white newspapers of the era: Muskogee Times Democrat, November 19, 1909 BASS REEVES IS A VERY SICK MAN Bass Reeves, a deputy United States marshal in old Indian Territory for over 	thirty years, is very ill at his home in the Fourth ward and is not expected 	to live.
 Reeves was a deputy under Leo Bennett in the last years of the federal regime 	in Oklahoma, and also served in the old days of Judge Parker at Fort Smith.
 In the early days when the Indian country was overriden with outlaws, Reeves 	was sent to go through the Indian country and gather up criminals which were 	tried at Fort Smith.
 These trips lasted sometimes for months and Reeves would 	herd into Fort Smith often single handed, bands of men charged with crimes from 	bootlegging to murder.
 He was paid fees in those days which some times amounted 	to thousands of dollars for a single trip.
 For a time Reeves made a great deal 	of money and was said to be worth considerable.
 He then shot a man whom he was 	trying to arrest and was tried for murder.
 The fight for life in the courts 	was a bitter one, but finally Reeves was acquitted on the testimony of a young 	negro girl.
 He was freed, but not until most of his money was gone.
 The veteran 	negro deputy never quailed in facing any man.
 Chief Ledbetter says of the old 	man that he is one of the bravest men this country has ever known.
 He was honest and fearless, and a terror to the bootleggers.
 He was as polite 	as an old-time slave to the white people and most loyal to his superiors.
 His son shot and killed his own wife and Reeves, enforcing the law arrested 	his own son.
 The young negro was sent to the penitentiary.
 While the old man is slowly sinking, Bud Ledbetter, who for years was in the 	government service with Reeves is caring for the old man the best he can and 	is a daily visitor at the Reeves home.
 Police Judge Walrond, who was United 	States district attorney while Reeves was an officer, also calls on the old 	negro.
 "While Reeves could neither read nor write," said Judge Walrond 	today, "he had a faculty of telling what warrants to serve on any one and 	never made a mistake.
 Reeves carried a batch of warrants in his pocket and when 	his superior officers asked him to produce it the old man would run through 	them and never fail to pick out the one desired.
 Since statehood, Reeves was given a place on the police force, but became 	ill and unable to work.
 For the past year he has been growing weaker, and has 	but little time to spend in this world.
 He is nearly seventy years old.
 Muskogee Times Democrat, Thursday, January 13, 1910 BASS REEVES DEAD Bass Reeves, colored, for 32 years a deputy United States marshal in Indian 	Territory, who served under the famous Judge Parker at Fort Smith and later 	at Muskogee, a man credited with fourteen notches on his gun and a terror to 	outlaws and desperadoes in the old days, died at his home at 816 North Howard 	Street late yesterday afternoon at the age of 72.
 Death was caused by Bright's 	disease and complications.
 Muskogee Phoenix, Thursday, January 13, 1910 BASS REEVES DEAD; UNIQUE CHARACTER Man of the "Old Days" Gone Deputy Marshal Thirty-Two Years.
 Bass Reeves is dead.
 Bass Reeves had completed thirty-two years service as deputy marshal when, 	with the coming of statehood at the age of sixty-nine he gave up his position.
 For about two years then he served on the Muskogee police force, which position 	he gave up about a year ago on account of sickness, from which he never fully 	recovered.
 Bright's disease and a complication of ailments together with old 	age, were the cause of his death.
 The deceased is survived by his wife and several children, only one of whom, 	a daughter, Mrs. Alice Spahn, lives in Muskogee.
 His mother, who is eighty-seven 	years old, lives at Van Buren, Arkansas, where a sister of his also is living.
 The funeral will be held at noon Friday from the Reeves' home at 816 North 	Howard Street.
 Arrangements for the funeral had not been completed last evening.
 BASS REEVES CAREER In the history of the early days of Eastern Oklahoma the name of Bass Reeves 	has a place in the front rank among those who cleansed out the old Indian Territory 	of outlaws and desperadoes.
 No story of the conflict of government's officers 	with those outlaws which ended only a few years ago with the rapid filling up 	of the territory with people, can be complete without mention of the negro who 	died yesterday.
 For thirty-two years, beginning way back in the seventies and ending in 1907, 	Bass Reeves was a deputy United States marshal.
 During that time he was sent 	to arrest some of the most desperate characters that ever infested Indian Territory 	and endangered life and peace in its borders.
 And he got his man as often as 	any of the deputies.
 At times he was unable to get them alive and so in the 	course of his long service he killed fourteen men.
 But Bass Reeves always said 	that he never shot a man when it was not necessary for him to do so in the discharge 	of his duty to save his own life.
 He was tried for murder on one occasion but 	was acquitted upon proving that he had killed the man in the discharge of his 	duty and was forced to do it.
 Reeves was an Arkansan and in his early days was a slave.
 He entered the federal 	as a deputy marshal long before a court was established in Indian Territory 	and served under the marshal at Fort Smith.
 Then when people started to come 	into Indian Territory and a marshal was appointed with headquarters in Muskogee, 	he was sent over here.
 Reeves served under seven United States marshals and all of them were more 	than satisfied with his services.
 Everybody who came in contact with the negro 	deputy in an official capacity had a great deal of respect for him, and at the 	court house in Muskogee one can hear stories of his devotion to duty, his unflinching 	courage and his many thrilling experiences, and although he could not write 	or read he always took receipts and had his accounts in good shape.
 Undoubtedly the act which best typifies the man and which at least shows his 	devotion to duty, was the arrest of his son.
 A warrant for the arrest of the 	younger Reeves, who was charged with murder of his wife, had been issued.
 Marshal 	Bennett said that perhaps another deputy had better be sent to arrest him.
 The 	old negro was in the room at the time, and with a devotion of duty equaling 	that of the old Roman, Brutus, whose greatest claim on fame has been that the 	love for his son could not sway him from justice, he said, "Give me the 	writ," and went out and arrested his son, brought him into court and upon 	trial and conviction he was sentenced to imprisonment and is still serving the 	sentence.
 Reeves had many narrow escapes.
 At different times his belt was shot in two, 	a button shot off his coat, his hat brim shot off and the bridle reins which 	he held in his hands cut by a bullet.
 However, in spite of all these narrow 	escapes and many conflicts in which he was engaged, Reeves was never wounded.
 And this not withstanding the fact that he said he never fired a shot until 	the desperado he was trying to arrest had started the shooting.
 Muskogee Phoenix.
 Saturday, January 15, 1910 BASS REEVES Bass Reeves, negro, was buried yesterday and the funeral was attended by a 	large number of white people--men who in the early days knew the old deputy 	marshal and admired him as a faithful officer and respected him as an honest 	man.
 Bass Reeves was an unique character.
 Absolutely fearless and knowing no master 	but duty, the placing of a writ in his hands for service meant that the letter 	of the law would be fulfilled though his life paid the penalty.
 In the carrying 	out of his orders during his thirty-two years as deputy United States marshal 	in the old Indian Territory days, Bass Reeves faced death a hundred times, many 	desperate characters sought his life yet the old man even on the brink of the 	grave went along the pathway of duty with the simple faith that some men have 	who believe that they are in the care of special providence when they are doing 	right.
 The arrest of his own son for wife-murder, for which crime the young man is 	now serving a life sentence, is the best illustration of the old deputy's Spartan 	character.
 Black-skinned, illiterate, offspring of slaves whose ancestors were savages, 	this simple old man's life stands white and pure alongside some of our present-day 	officials in charge of affairs since the advent of statehood.
 To them duty, 	honor and respect for law are but by-words, and their only creed is "get 	what you can and stand in with the Boss."
 Bass Reeves would not have served under such a regime.
 Black though he was 	he was too white for that.
 His simple, honest faith in the righteousness of 	the law would brook no disrespect for its mandates, and some of the little ones 	in charge now would not have dared suggest such a thing to this man who feared 	nothing but the possibility that he might do wrong.
 Bass is dead.
 He was buried with high honors, and his name will be recorded 	in the archives of the court as a faithful servant of the law and a brave officer.
 And it was fitting that such recognition was bestowed upon this man.
 It is fitting 	that, black or white, our people have the manhood to recognize character and 	faithfulness to duty.
 And it is lamentable that we as white people must go to 	this poor, simple old negro to learn a lesson in courage, honesty and faithfulness 	to official duty.
 Contact Art Burton at: History Department South Suburban College 15800 South State Street South Holland, Illinois 60473 Telephone: (708) 596-2000 ext.
