Copyright 2017 Yahoo Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
 %d listeners added.
 Use emitter.setMaxListeners() to increase limit.
 ",errorMsg:"Please check back later.
 Please try again with another browser","UNLINKING":"Unlinking your account","YODLEE_ERROR":"Something went wrong, please try again later","YODLEE_TIMEOUT":"Your session has timed out.
 North Carolina-based Progress Energy was a pure-play electricity utility.
 The company engaged in regulated electricity operations in the southeastern U.S.
 The new company would be known as Duke Energy with headquarters in Charlotte, and substantial operations in Raleigh, North Carolina.
 Duke Energy would trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “DUK”.
 Pursuant to the merger deal, Progress Energy has become a wholly owned direct unit of Duke Energy.
 When the merger was announced on January 10, 2011, the transaction value totaled $26 billion, including Progress Energy's debt.
 Currently based on Duke Energy's share price and including Progress Energy's debt, the transaction is valued at about $32 billion.
 The transaction makes Duke Energy the largest U.S. utility and increases its ability to build new power plants to meet future greenhouse-gas emissions limits.
 Earlier, Chicago-based Exelon Corporation (EXC) was the largest U.S. utility.
 In addition, Duke Energy announced that the newly constituted board has named Mr. Jim Rogers as president and chief executive of the combined company.
 Also, Rogers would maintain his responsibilities as chairman of the company's board.
 Mr. Bill Johnson has resigned as president and chief executive of the combined company.
 On a standalone basis, Duke Energy had an adjusted earnings per share guidance range of $1.40 – $1.45 for 2012.
 Under the terms of the merger agreement, each share of Progress Energy common stock has been converted into the right to receive 0.87083 shares of Duke Energy common stock.
 Due to the effect of the 1-for-3 reverse stock split, which was completed related to this merger transaction, this guidance range is the equivalent of $4.20 – $4.35 per share.
 The combined company continues to target 2012 adjusted earnings per share range of $4.20 – $4.35.
 The reverse stock split is designed to reduce the number of outstanding Duke Energy shares.
 The new entity has nearly $49 billion in market capitalization, total assets of more than $100 billion, and 7.1 million electric customers in the Carolinas, Florida, Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio.
 The regulated utilities would include a higher proportion of Duke Energy's post-merger business mix.
 Duke Energy's major commercial operations include Duke Energy International, which operates power plants in Central and South America; Duke Energy Renewables, which develops and owns wind and solar projects in the U.S.; and Duke Energy's Midwest generation and Duke Energy Retail, which generate, market and sell electricity in the Midwest.
 The merger is expected to keep the company’s long-term goal of 4% 6% earnings growth in good stead.
 Looking ahead, our bullish outlook for the company is supported by higher rates, its strong balance sheet, ongoing capital expansion projects and an above-average dividend yield for the industry.
 Duke Energy, a Zacks #2 Rank ('Buy') stock, is one of the largest electric power holding companies in the United States.
 We have a long-term Neutral recommendation on the Duke Energy stock.Story continuesRead the Full Research Report on EXCRead the Full Research Report on DUK Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on EXC,DUKTRENDING 1.
 In Trump Country, disappointment, anger mingle with hope for Biden to unite 2.
 A voter's long wait pays off with Biden's win 3.
 Arabs doubt Biden will herald change in the Middle East 4. Notable Republicans backed Biden.
 Will they stand with him on national security?
 5.
 Here's what you need to know.5h agoMarketWatchHere’s what a President Joe Biden would mean for Americans’ retirement savingsOf course, retirement security was on some legislators’ minds before the election.
 The Ways and Means Committee introduced bipartisan legislation last month called the Securing a Strong Retirement Act of 2020, which builds upon the Secure Act passed in December.6h agoMarketWatchWhat a Joe Biden administration will mean for the economy and marketsAfter four days of counting, Joe Biden has been called the victor of the 2020 presidential election, according to the Associated Press.6h agoMarketWatchHere’s what a Biden presidency spells for stocks, bonds and commoditiesAfter days on tenterhooks, investors now have clarity about the next occupant of the White House and will start planning for the presidency of Joe Biden.6h agoInvestor's Business DailyWarren Buffett Doubles Down On Major Reversal In Investing StrategyWarren Buffett jumped back into the stock market again in Q3, after net selling in Q2, and spent a record amount buying back Berkshire Hathaway shares.6h agoFX EmpireOil Stocks – Buying Opportunity of a LifetimeI do not see how we can have inflation without much higher energy prices.
 Consequently, I am betting big on an energy comeback.1d agoInvestor's Business DailyAnalyzing The Powerful Stock Market Rally: Alibaba, Nvidia In Buy Range; Biogen, Tesla, Nio In FocusLast week's market rally showed real power.
 Biogen is in focus after a FDA panel panned its Alzheimer's drug.
 China EV sales are due for Tesla and Nio.25m agoTipRanksBiogen Bombs at the FDA Panel; J.P. Morgan Weighs InBy a vote of one for, eight against, and two abstaining, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee concluded Friday that positive clinical data from Biogen's (BIIB) "EMERGE" trial, when "viewed independently and without regard for" data from the company's "ENGAGE" trial, were not sufficient to convince it that aducanumab is an effective treatment for Alzheimer's.The Advisory Committee furthermore voted zero to seven (with four abstentions) against a finding that Biogen's PRIME study data was any better.
 And although on the bright side, the committee voted five-to-zero-to-six sort of in favor of the verdict that Biogen has "presented strong evidence of a pharmacodynamic effect of aducanumab on Alzheimer’s disease pathophysiology," in the end, they concluded by a crushing zero-to-10 margin (with one abstention) that it was not reasonable to rely upon the EMERGE data as a reason to approve the drug for commercial sale.That's the bad news.The good news is that the Advisory Committee's recommendations above are not binding on the FDA itself, and the FDA could, therefore, end up approving the drug anyway.
 (The FDA intends to render its own final verdict by March 7, 2021).But the other bad news is that, when you get right down to it, the Advisory Committee's conclusions were "overwhelmingly negative," as J.P. Morgan analyst Cory Kasimov opined in a note out today.
 Tallying up the results, points out Kasimov, Biogen garnered a grand total of just "one yet vote across the three key efficacy questions."
 And this, in the analyst's opinion, "certainly calls into serious question the FDA's very positive stance on aducanumab.
 "Calling the Advisory Committee's verdicts a "near unanimous vote against aducanumab and strong commentary against the FDA's own analyses," Kasimov warns that "with the FDA's reputation already in a precarious position, it could be difficult -- maybe impossible -- to go against an expert panel at this time no matter how badly they want this.
 "Which kind of makes the March 7 decision sound like a foregone conclusion, and not one that favors Biogen.So what does this mean for Biogen and the investors who've placed their faith in it?
 On the one hand, the aducanumab polls were unqualifiedly bad for Biogen.
 Still, they apparently weren't quite bad enough to shake JP Morgan's faith in the company so as to necessitate downgrading the stock from "neutral" (the stock's current rating) to "sell."
 Nor did Kasimov cut his price target on the stock from its present level of $269 per share.That being said, when you consider that Biogen stock costs nearly $329 a share today, Kasimov's $269 price target does still imply that Biogen stock is worth nearly 19% less than what investors are currently paying for it.
 (To watch Kasimov's track record, click here)This stock has attracted plenty of interest from Wall Street’s analysts.
 BIIB’s analyst consensus rating is a Moderate Buy based on 27 reviews, which include 11 Buys against 14 Holds and 2 Sells.
 (See BIIB stock analysis on TipRanks)To find good ideas for healthcare stocks trading at attractive valuations, visit TipRanks’ Best Stocks to Buy, a newly launched tool that unites all of TipRanks’ equity insights.Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article are solely those of the featured analyst.
 The content is intended to be used for informational purposes only.
 It is very important to do your own analysis before making any investment.8h agoU.S.News &amp; World Report7 Best Marijuana Stocks to BuyThe election results are bullish for marijuana stocks.
 Cannabis stock investors didn't get the blue wave they were hoping for in the U.S. election, but all five state marijuana legalization measures on the ballot have passed.
 Recreational and/or medical marijuana was legalized in Arizona, Mississippi, Montana, New Jersey and South Dakota, increasing the potential geographic footprint of cannabis multistate operators, or MSOs.1d agoTipRanksAnalysts Say These 3 Stocks Are Their Top Picks for 2021The year is winding down, and most of us would say ‘good riddance.’ Is there evidence that the markets are getting back onto an upward track?
 The summer saw big gains on Wall Street, perhaps a bubble, but definitely a bull market.
 September saw it slip off track, October has seen a partial recovery, while November started with a bang — or to be more precise, a boom.Some of Wall Street’s analysts see the remaining time for some smart stock plays in a volatile environment, and they are tagging their top picks to start the new year on a high note.
 Let's take a closer look.SVB Financial Group (SIVB)The first stock on the list is Silicon Valley’s largest deposit holding bank.
 SVB Financial Group is the holding company owning Silicon Valley Bank, a commercial bank specializing in high-tech venture capital.
 Since its founding in the 1980s, SVB has provided funding for more than 30,000 start-ups, and has also become a major financial services provider for Napa Valley’s vineyards.Working in the high-wealth areas of the San Francisco Bay region, and maintaining offices in other financial centers around the world – London, Hong Kong, and Toronto, among others – Silicon Valley Bank was well-positioned to weather the corona crisis.
 The bank’s revenue has been rising through 2020, from $807 million in Q1, to $860 million in Q2, to $1.08 billion in Q3.
 Earnings, after a sequential slip entering Q1, have also been on an upward track; the Q3 EPS came in at $8.47, beating the forecast by 55%.The bank’s shares have reflected the strong financial performance.
 SVB is up 27% year-to-date, having bounced back from the mid-winter market crash.Covering SIVB for Maxim, analyst Michael Diana writes, “SIVB remains our top bank pick due to: 1) its unique, non-replicable franchise; and 2) the growth implications of that franchise… The environment for VC-backed companies has improved, in our view, especially for the technology and life sciences companies that are SIVB's focus… we expect that SIVB's deposits, loan volumes, and investment/warrant gains should all benefit in 2021.”Diana rates SIVB as a Buy, and his $335 price target implies another 10% gain for the year ahead.
 (To watch Diana’s track record, click here)Overall, SVB Holdings has a Moderate Buy rating from the analyst consensus, based on 13 recent reviews, including 10 Buys, 2 Holds, and 1 Sell.
 (See SIVB stock analysis on TipRanks)Danaher Corporation (DHR)The second stock on the list is a conglomerate, a globally diversified company based in Washington, DC.
 Danaher works in the science and technology field, bringing together a range of companies through acquisitions and partnerships.
 Danaher operates three business segments, Life Sciences, Diagnostics, and Environmental &amp; Applied Solutions.Danaher has performed well through 2020, repeating its normal pattern of rising earnings from Q1 – but on steroids.
 The first quarter EPS was low, at $1.05, but quickly rose to $1.44 in Q2 and then $1.72 in Q3.
 The third quarter result was 25% higher than expectations.
 Revenues followed a similar path, gaining from $4.3 billion in Q1 to $5.9 billion in Q3.DHR shares have heavily outperformed the overall markets this year, rising nearly 60%.Doug Schenkel, 5-star analyst from Cowen, sees Danaher benefitting directly from the current pandemic situation and, as a result, moves the stock to a Top Pick.“We believe DHR has one of the best product portfolios among the Tools group to address the current COVID-19 challenges (bioprocessing, Dx).
 Over the next several quarters, a double-digit pro forma core revenue growth rate appears attainable, in part driven by these COVID-19 solutions.
 Looking beyond the current pandemic, we believe management commentary on the evolution of the business portfolio, strategy to extract durable revenue from near-term COVID-19 driven demand, and M&amp;A capacity (we estimate ~$15B+ over the next 12 months) should help build confidence that DHR is now plausibly built to generate sustainable HSD core revenue growth.
 This would be an impressive growth profile for a nearly ~$200B market cap Tools company and is well above current consensus estimates.” Schenkel opined.
 Schenkel, who is rated 56 of more than 7,000 analysts in the TipRanks database, rates DHR shares as an Outperform (i.e.
 Buy).
 His price target of $275 indicates an upside of 12% in the next 12 months.
 (To watch Schenkel’s track record, click here)Overall, Danaher boasts a Strong Buy analyst consensus rating, and it is unanimous – the stock has received 6 Buys in recent weeks.
 (See DHR stock analysis on TipRanks)Boston Beer (SAM)The last stock on the list today is one you may be familiar with.
 Boston Beer is the owner of Sam Adams, the popular brew named after the Colonial-era patriot.
 Boston Beer is the fourth largest brewery in the US, boasted $1.33 billion in revenue for 2019.So far, 2020 has been a good year for Boston Beer.
 To put it bluntly, the social lockdown policies keeping people at home caused many of them to turn to beer for comfort, and Boston Beer has a well-liked flagship brand.
 The company’s earnings have risen steadily this year, from $1.32 in Q1 to $6.10 in Q3.
 At the top line, revenues have moved from $330 million in the first quarter, to $492 million in the third.Of the stocks on this list, Boston Beer has shown the strongest year-to-date share appreciation.
 The stock has almost tripled, gaining 183% despite all the vicissitudes of 2020.Cowen analyst Vivien Azer, who holds 5 stars with TipRanks, has reviewed the company's latest Q3 results and was duly impressed.
 As a result, Azer reiterated SAM as her Top Pick.“SAM handily beat our above-consensus est.
 for 3Q (historically their biggest EPS quarter, at 40% of 2019)… the company expects *all* of their brands to grow in 2021… Despite the reality of COVID uncertainty, select nuances inform the company's ahead-of-expectation outlook: 1) delayed shelf sets… 2) line of sight in terms of in-house and outsourced capacity and 3) an outlook for a doubling of hard seltzer,” Azer wrote.In line with her upbeat outlook, Azer rates the stock as a Buy along with a $1,250 price target.
 Her target suggests an upside of 17% over the coming year.
 (To watch Azer’s track record, click here)Overall, SAM shares get a Moderate Buy rating from the analyst consensus on Wall Street.
 The stock has 9 recent reviews, breaking down to 6 Buys and 3 Holds.
 (See SAM stock analysis on TipRanks)To find good ideas for stocks trading at attractive valuations, visit TipRanks’ Best Stocks to Buy, a newly launched tool that unites all of TipRanks’ equity insights.Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article are solely those of the featured analysts.
 The content is intended to be used for informational purposes only.
 It is very important to do your own analysis before making any investment.1d agoU.S.News &amp; World Report5 of the Best Tech Stocks to Buy for NovemberWith earnings season well underway, Wall Street now has its eyes firmly affixed on the 2020 elections.
 One of those Big Tech names that has been under scrutiny from Congress, Facebook shares popped on Nov. 4, as investors breathed a sigh of relief that Capitol Hill would likely be divided.1d agoBloombergBuffett Leans Into New Way to Use Cash With Buybacks Surging(Bloomberg) -- Warren Buffett has gone from a stock-buyback skeptic to one of the world’s biggest repurchasers as his own firm becomes his favorite investment in the pandemic.
 The famed investor’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. spent the third quarter buying back about $9 billion of its own stock, more than it had repurchased in any full year in its history.
 The buying spree takes the total repurchases in the first nine months of 2020 to $16 billion, and the most recent pace would be the biggest of any U.S. company except Apple Inc., which happens to be Buffett’s largest investment.Buffett, 90, has been struggling for years to find attractive deals that would deploy his cash pile into higher-returning assets to help supercharge the growth of his conglomerate.
 In recent years, he’s backed off his long-held aversion to share buybacks.
 Now, repurchases led his capital-deployment maneuvers in the quarter, alongside a roughly $6 billion investment in Japanese trading houses, a bet on Snowflake Inc. and a deal for natural gas assets.“You start to talk about a pretty significant amount of cash that’s been put to work,” Jim Shanahan, an analyst at Edward Jones, said in a phone interview.
 Big multi-billion investments “are difficult to come by and in the absence of that, they’re finding ways to put cash to work, I think in a meaningful amount.”The buybacks allowed Buffett to chip away at Berkshire’s cash pile in the third quarter, with that war chest dropping slightly to $145.7 billion, the company said Saturday.
 The funds, which still give him plenty of capital to deploy into acquisitions, stock purchases or buybacks, have recently been accumulating faster than Buffett can put them to work in higher-returning assets.The heightened buybacks could indicate more optimism in the conglomerate’s prospects, just months after Buffett told Berkshire shareholders at the annual meeting in May that repurchasing shares wasn’t more compelling than when the stock was much higher before the pandemic.Berkshire stock climbed 20% in the third quarter, surpassing the 8.5% gain in the S&amp;P 500 Index during the same period.
 The company accelerated its repurchases even as the shares climbed through the quarter.
 Still, Berkshire stock is overall cheaper than it was at the end of last year, with Class A shares down 7.6% through Friday’s close.The buybacks likely continued into October.
 Saturday’s filing shows that Berkshire’s share count decreased even through Oct. 26, indicating Berkshire spent at least $2.3 billion repurchasing stock during those weeks.“The forceful share buybacks suggest that at least one lever that can be pulled more forcefully as the price lingers is the one that he’s doing,” Thomas Russo, who oversees more than $9 billion including Berkshire shares at Gardner Russo &amp; Gardner LLC, said in a phone interview.
 “I’m delighted to see that kind of commitment.”Operating ProfitThe conglomerate’s businesses have bounced back slightly from the depths of the slump in the second quarter.
 Profit at the railroad, while still down from a year earlier, was higher than the three months ended June 30, and Berkshire’s utilities posted its highest quarterly profit in more than a decade.
 Still, operating profit dropped 32%, hurt by the insurance unit’s first underwriting loss since the end of 2019.Buffett’s businessses have been battered by the pandemic this year.
 Aerospace parts-maker Precision Castparts, which was hit by a $10 billion charge in the second quarter, reported an 80% drop in pretax earnings in the three months that ended Sept. 30.
 Retailers such as See’s Candies and Oriental Trading have experienced “significant declines” in earnings this year.Berkshire’s board announced a policy change in July 2018 that allowed Buffett and his business partner, Charles Munger, to buy back stock when the price is below whatever they consider Berkshire’s intrinsic value.
 Previously, they couldn’t make repurchases if the price was more than 20% above current book value.“This concept of reallocating capital to shareholders was just not necessarily a tenet of Berkshire’s operating policies,” CFRA Research analyst Cathy Seifert said in a phone interview.
 “In this environment, it’s getting harder and harder for them to justify holding on to billions and billions of dollars in Treasury securities.”Buffett’s appetite for equities wasn’t limited to his own shares.
 After selling the most stocks on a net basis in more than a decade during the second quarter, Berkshire reversed course in the following months, purchasing $4.79 billion of stocks on a net basis during the third quarter.The company’s investments delivered almost $25 billion in investment gains amid the market rally, helping net income almost double despite the drop in operating profit.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.comSubscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source.©2020 Bloomberg L.P.4h agoQuartzBiden plans to raise taxes, but would stay out of most individual Americans’ pocketsBiden won't raise taxes for anyone earning less than $400,000.
 His plan calls for corporations and the wealthy to pay more.7h agoThe TelegraphToyota boss hits out at TeslaToyota’s boss has taken a swipe at Tesla, predicting Elon Musk’s electric car company will lose out to established motor manufacturers as they catch up in battery vehicles.
 Akio Toyoda, grandson of Toyota’s founder, warned not to dismiss the automotive industry’s giants as his company posted quarterly results which included doubling its full-year profit forecast.
 “Tesla says that their recipe will be the standard in the future, but what Toyota has is a real kitchen and a real chef,” said Mr Toyoda in a reference to Tesla’s hopes its technologies will become widely adopted.
 “They aren’t really making something that’s real - people are just buying the recipe,” he added.
 “We have the kitchen and chef, and we make real food.
 "When it comes to products, we have a full menu that will be chosen by customers.”1d agoMoneyWiseHow much do you really need to save for retirement?Here's how to figure it out, with the help of some durable rules of thumb.1d agoBenzingaWhich Bank Stock Will Grow The Most By 2025?Every week, Benzinga conducts a sentiment survey to find out what traders are most excited about, interested in or thinking about as they manage and build their personal portfolios.We recently asked over 300 Benzinga investors and traders which bank stock they believe will grow the most by 2025.
 * JPMorgan Chase (NYSE: JPM) * Bank of America (NYSE: BAC) * Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) * Goldman Sachs (NYSE: GS) * Wells Fargo (NYSE: WFC) * Citi (NYSE: C)26.6% of readers said shares of JPMorgan Chase would grow the most by 2025.
 Readers chose Chase's stock to increase the most out of the options our study provided.Respondents were also confident in Bank of America's 2025 growth prospects, with 21.2% of readers saying it would gain the most in the coming years.
 Goldman Sachs followed BAC closely, selected as the top bank stop by 17.9% of traders.Only 9.6% of traders and investors thought Morgan Stanley would gain the most.
 Benzinga readers didn't see as much upside with Wells Fargo or Citi either, with both stocks garnering 13.7% and 11% of investors support, respectively.As of publishing, the bank stock from our study trading at the lowest price per share is Wells Fargo at $22.66.
 The bank stock trading at the highest price per share is Goldman Sachs at $201.59 per share.This study was conducted by Benzinga in November 2020 and included the responses of a diverse population of adults 18 or older.
 Opting into the survey was completely voluntary, with no incentives offered to potential respondents.
 The order of survey answers were randomized for each respondent.
 The study reflects results from over 300 adults.Photo credit: Mike Mozart, FlickrSee more from Benzinga * Click here for options trades from Benzinga * Which Fintech Payment Stock Will Grow The Most By 2025?
 * Biden Vs. Trump: Best Prop Bets For The 2020 Presidential Election(C) 2020 Benzinga.com.
 Benzinga does not provide investment advice.
 All rights reserved.1d agoBloombergThiel-Backed Palantir Soars as Biden Inches Closer to Win(Bloomberg) -- Palantir Technologies Inc. surged on Friday on speculation that Democrat Joe Biden -- nearing victory in the U.S. presidential race -- would rein in military spending and spur demand for the company’s lower-priced surveillance technology.The stock rose as much as 26%, the most since its direct listing in September as many investors expect defense spending would be cut under a Biden administration.Palantir, which was co-founded by Peter Thiel, counts the U.S. Defense Department among its largest customers and could benefit from budget cuts because its software often costs less than similar offerings from traditional defense contractors.Its shares could also be benefiting from short sellers exiting their positions as the stock rises, according to Melius Research analyst Carter Copeland, who called the stock’s volatility “stunning.”“Given that the rest of the defense and industrial security complex hasn’t reacted in the same way, one would conclude there’s an element of short covering here,” he said in an interview.About 6% of Palantir shares that are available to trade are being sold short, according to the latest data from financial analytics firm S3 Partners.
 That’s down from about 9% on Oct. 28.Palantir has now gained about 32% since the U.S. election was held on Nov. 3, adding more than $5 billion in market value.
 The company is scheduled to report financial results for the first time as a publicly traded company on Nov.
 12.
 (Adds context to first paragraph)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.comSubscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source.©2020 Bloomberg L.P.1d agoBenzingaWhy Cramer Says A Biden Win Is Bullish For Rocket CompaniesOn Thursday's "Mad Money" show, host Jim Cramer highlighted Rocket Companies as a good stock to own in response to a caller.Cramer On Rocket Companies: The caller asked Cramer's thoughts on Rocket Companies Inc (NYSE: RKT) going into earnings next week.The caller said they bought shares in the $17 to $18 range and believe the increased mortgage numbers will help with earnings.Cramer said Rocket Companies is a "very well-run company.
 "The Detroit-based mortgage lenders are "much better lenders than traditional lenders in terms of defaults," the CNBC host said.
 Cramer's catalysts for the stock are low interest rates, an exodus of people moving from the city to the suburbs and a Joe Biden win in the presidential race.
 "There's going to be a wave of immigration," he said.
 Related Link: Rocket Mortgage, Mint Partner On Refinancing Tech: What Investors Should KnowWhat's Next: Rocket Companies will report quarterly earnings on Nov. 10 after the market close.
 "This might be a perfect stock to own," Cramer said.RKT Price Action: Shares of Rocket Companies were up 1.72% at $21.31 the close Friday.
 Shares have traded between $17.50 and $34.42 since going public earlier this year.See more from Benzinga * Click here for options trades from Benzinga * A Rocket Companies Subsidiary Acquires Fast-Growing Canadian Mortgage Platform Finmo(C) 2020 Benzinga.com.
 Benzinga does not provide investment advice.
 All rights reserved.1d agoInvestor's Business DailyThese Are The 5 Best Stocks To Buy And Watch NowBuying a stock is easy, but buying the right stock without a time-tested strategy is incredibly hard.
 So what are the best stocks to buy now or put on a watchlist?2h agoU.S.News &amp; World Report10 Best-Performing 401(k) FundsThe 401(k) might be the best wealth-building tool for retirement ever created.
 Couple the ongoing tax savings with the best 401(k) funds, and average investors can find a path to financial security.
