Most of our content is now on orlando.gov.
 Visit orlando.gov now to view our services.
 Saturday, 7 November, 2020   Español Downtown Orlando I-4 Ultimate Orlando Venues Transit Visit Orlando    Español Downtown Orlando I-4 Ultimate Orlando Venues Transit Visit Orlando      Facebook Twitter Youtube Flicker Instagram Nextdoor                                     Home Council  Office of the Mayor District 1 District 2 District 3 District 4 District 5 District 6 City Clerk Council Agendas Council Information Watch Online    Departments News &amp; Events  News City News Mayor Dyer’s Blog Press Releases Subscribe to Our Newsletter Events    Services Residents Visitors Business     Menu  Home Council  Office of the Mayor District 1 District 2 District 3 District 4 District 5 District 6 City Clerk Council Agendas Council Information Watch Online    Departments News &amp; Events  News City News Mayor Dyer’s Blog Press Releases Subscribe to Our Newsletter Events    Services Residents Visitors Business                   Home news Pulse Nightclub Shooting: June 13, 2016 Update   Pulse Nightclub Shooting: June 13, 2016 Update Posted date: June 13, 2016 As the investigation into the tragic mass shooting at Orlando’s Pulse nightclub unfolds.
 The men and women of the Orlando Police Department are continuing to assist in and support this operation in a number of ways.
 One of the most difficult tasks for any law enforcement officer is making death notifications to next of kin.
 Our personnel have done that over more than 24 hours with great care and compassion for the families and loved ones who have suffered devastating losses.
 Those relatives and friends have been kind and gracious in a most unbearable time of grief.
 OPD also would like to extend its deepest thanks to the many business owners on Orange Avenue whose livelihoods have been disrupted as we methodically care for the crime scene.
 And no amount of thanks is sufficient for the amazing Orlando community that has rallied around our department and supported in countless ways.
 Summary of events, June 13, 2016.
 Official victim count: 49 shooting victims plus suspect.
 Total 50.
 Forty-eight (48) notifications to next of kin have been made through the help of the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.
 The officers who fired at the Pulse Nightclub shooter:   Officer working extra duty at Pulse: Officer Adam Gruler, member of OPD since 2001 First Patrol Unit On Scene (Also a SWAT Member): Lieutenant Scott Smith, member of OPD since 1992 First Patrol Unit On Scene (Also a SWAT Member): Sergeant Jeffrey Backhaus, member of OPD since 2004 SWAT: Officer Timothy Stanley, member of OPD since 1998 SWAT: Officer Kevin Easterling, member of OPD since 1994 SWAT: Officer Andrew Bishop, member of OPD since 1994 SWAT: Sergeant James Parker, member of OPD since 1991 SWAT: Detective Raul Rivas, member of OPD since 1992 SWAT: Lieutenant Jonathan Bigelow, member of OPD since 2001 SWAT: Officer Ricardo Duenas, member of OPD since 2014 Officer shot in the Kevlar helmet: Officer Michael Napolitano, member of OPD since 2012 The Florida Department of Law Enforcement investigates all of OPD’s officer involved shootings.
 The FBI is the lead Federal Law  Enforcement agency and is answering questions through its Main National Press Office at 202-324-3691.
 Original Release:  “We will not be defined by this act of terror” — Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer (This is a summary of much of the information the Orlando Police Department released throughout the day on Sunday, June 12.)
 On June 12, 2016, just after 2 a.m., an Orlando Police Officer working extra duty at the Pulse Nightclub, located at 1912 S. Orange Ave., responded to shots fired.
 Our officer engaged in a gun battle with that suspect and the suspect went deeper into the club where more shots were fired.
 The incident then turned into a hostage situation.
 The suspect – later identified as 29-year-old Omar Mir Seddique Mateen of Fort Pierce, Florida – continued shooting inside the club.
 At 5 a.m., the decision was made to breach the club and rescue the hostages, OPD Chief John Mina said.
 Officers were able to rescue 30 hostages and lead them to safety.
 Our SWAT Officers exchanged gunfire with the suspect, killing him.
 The gunman, an American citizen living in Florida, legally purchased the firearms within the last week, said Trevor Velinor, Asst.
 Special Agent In Charge of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives Tampa Field Office.
 The Florida Department of Law Enforcement will conduct the Officer Involved Shooting investigation.
 The 11 OPD officers  involved are relieved of duty, as is standard in any officer involved shooting.
 A total of 50 people were killed in the shooting; an additional 53 were injured.
 Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer said Sunday afternoon: “This is probably the most difficult day in the history of Orlando.” The FBI is the lead Federal Law  Enforcement agency and is answering questions through its Main National Press Office at 202-324-3691.
 All official updates will come either from live media briefings or through the OPD Twitter account: @orlandopolice       Florida Gov.
 Rick Scott has declared a State of Emergency.
 Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer has declared a local State of Emergency.
 A hotline has been set up for those who believe a loved one may be a victim of the shooting.
 That number is 407-246-4357.
 As we are able to release the names of those killed, they will be posted on at http://www.cityoforlando.net/victims  Orlando Police will also continue to release the names on its Twitter account as well – @orlandopolice Aspire Health is offering grief counseling through the Zebra Coalition.
 Call 407-228-1448 for info.
 The LGBT Center of Central Florida, at 946 N. Mills Ave., also has counselors on hand.
 We will continue to update here, likely once a day.
 Most frequent updates will come from Twitter.
