Home     Subscribe Manage Login Logout        News   Main Page   NewsWatch   Milwaukee   Waukesha   Ozaukee/Washington   Wisconsin   Politics   Election 2016   Education   Health   Crime   Religion   Obituaries   Death Notices   Traffic   Weather   Special Reports   Corrections   Got a tip?
 You can view today&apos;s paper or previous issues.
 Want full access?
 Subscribe
             News    News Sections  Main Page NewsWatch Milwaukee Waukesha Ozaukee/Washington Wisconsin Politics Election 2016 Education Health Crime Religion Obituaries Death Notices Traffic Weather Special Reports Corrections Got a tip?
 Photos Video        Milwaukee woman named to FBI's 10 most wanted list    More News Headlines   
            UW-led study finds infection with Zika prevents reinfection
               
            U.S. failed to protect Americans in Benghazi, House GOP report says
               
            Wisconsin’s appeal on abortion turned away by Supreme Court
               
            Wisconsin abortion limits likely to fall in wake of Texas ruling
               
            Tree climbing: Adults get in touch with childhood, nature
                    Watchdog    Watchdog Sections  Main Page Dogged Blog Watchdog Reports Public Investigator No Quarter PolitiFact Data on Demand Citizen Watchdog   Photos Video     State Sen. Harris Dodd stands by aide with criminal past    More Watchdog Headlines    Daniel Bice:
            DA hopeful downplays erotic poetry book she published in 2014
               
            Federal gun prosecutions fall, even as Milwaukee crime rises
                Watchdog Update:
            Judge orders notorious Milwaukee landlord to pay up
                Watchdog Report:
            Corrections employee still a supervisor after misusing Taser
                Watchdog Update:
            FDA standards for approving cancer drugs lax, study says
                    Opinion    Opinion Sections  Main Page Editorial Board Blog Editorials Local Perspectives National Columnists Letters Crossroads Purple Wisconsin James E. Causey Christian Schneider   Photos Videos        GOP senators should do their job and vote on Garland    More Opinion Headlines    Ben Boychuk:
            Democrats go too far on guns
                Rolf Wegenke:
            Study on education rates does not reflect reality
               
            Assault weapons; palliative care; Elizabeth Warren
                Ernst-Ulrich Franzen:
            To Walker, Clinton and Clarke: Transparency matters to public
                Elizabeth Ward:
            The EPA needs to keep Wisconsin’s drinking water safe
                    Sports    Sports Sections  Main Page Preps Plus Scoreboard Outdoors Green Bay Packers Golf Milwaukee Brewers Auto Racing Milwaukee Bucks Milwaukee Admirals Wisconsin Badgers Milwaukee Wave / Soccer Marquette Golden Eagles Sports Blogs UWM Panthers TV/Radio listings State Colleges   Photos Videos        As attendance sags, Brewers see signs of summer boost    More Sports Headlines    
            Pat Summitt, most wins of any Division 1 basketball coach, dies at 64
               
            John Crockett to play role in backfield, special teams
                Prep baseball:
            West Bend West's win streak reaches 14
               
            Malcolm Brogdon will help revamp backup guard corps
               
            Get to Know: Brewers pitcher Zach Davies
                    Business    Business Sections  Main Page BusinessWatch Markets OnRamp Labs Real Estate Energy Harley Retail Investment Trends Executive Q&A; Workshift PRHub Top Workplaces Healthcare Reform Wisconsin 75   Photos Video        Chef aims high at new Kimpton hotel's restaurant    More Business Headlines   
            Marcoux recommended for 4th term as city development commissioner
               
            Adient moving forward with divestiture from Johnson Controls
                
            Ikea recalls 29 million dressers after 6 kids killed
               
            A Brexit silver lining?
 Mortgage rates back near the bottom again
               
            As Brexit tremors spread, U.S. investors lose $1.3 trillion
                    Entertainment    Entertainment Sections  Tap Milwaukee TV and Movies Dining Music Summerfest Arts Books Beer Events Comics Best Summer Ever Puzzles Horoscopes Lottery   Photos Videos        35 must-see Summerfest acts    More Entertainment Headlines   
            'Bachelorette' recap: Jordan Rodgers called 'entitled'
               
            Ray Jivoff, Norman Moses to star in Skylight's 'La Cage Aux Folles'
               
            At its best, 'An Ideal Husband" serves smorgasbord of Wildean wit
               
            Which emerging country acts you should catch at Summerfest
               
            2016 Milwaukee Film Festival unveils first 8 movies
                    Lifestyle    Lifestyle Sections  Fresh Recipes Food and Cooking Drinks Home Decor Garden Fashion and Style Parties Travel Advice Wisconsin Trails Best Summer Ever Metroparent Sponsored Content   Photos Video        Mix it up with leftover ingredients    More Lifestyle Headlines    Chef Chat:
            Nikki Dinki takes a fresh look at vegetables
                Foodie Finds:
            Brussel Bytes are a healthy snack with lots of crunch
                Espresso Lane:
            Experience African culture, food at African Picnic
               
            Food and drink events
               
            Dress your summer salads with simple, homemade dressings
                    Green Sheet    Green Sheet Sections  Main Page Comics Advice Puzzles Horoscopes        Fourth of July fireworks, parades in the Milwaukee area 2016    More Green Sheet Headlines   
            Test your knowledge of this week's news
               
            Visit to Bosnia sparks nurse's mission of a lifetime
               
            Rockwell Automation ranked as a top green company in U.S.
 Spiegelhoff is the owner of Gooseberries Fresh Food Market in Burlington and Spiegelhoff Super Valu in Kenosha and chair of the Wisconsin Grocers Association.
 Credit: Mark Hoffman   May 06, 2013   0 Comments    SHARE                    Poll   Should food stamps be used on junk food?
 The bill on Wisconsin's FoodShare program comes before the state on Tuesday in the Assembly, where it is expected to pass despite the unusual opposition.
 The proposal's lead sponsor, former potato chip salesman and state Rep. Dean Kaufert (R-Neenah), wants to require FoodShare recipients to use their taxpayer-funded benefits to buy more nutritious food.
 Kaufert said his bill makes sense as a response to the stories he hears from retail clerks and others about FoodShare benefits being used for large junk food purchases.
 But Kaufert acknowledges he hasn't seen any figures on what portion of FoodShare goes for unhealthy purchases and that he can't be sure his proposal as written would increase the amount of nutritious food purchased.
 The proposal also would likely be rejected by the federal government, which pays for the great majority of the costs in the more than $1 billion a year program.
 "It's wildly popular," Kaufert said of the bill.
 "It's one of those street or sidewalk issues where everyone has a story (about FoodShare problems)."
 The bill reverses politicians' usual positions on the government deciding food purchases.
 Democrats, who often back government efforts to cut down on junk food purchases, oppose requiring FoodShare recipients to do so.
 Republicans like Kaufert, who usually oppose such restrictions as "social engineering" or a "nanny state," support putting them on those who receive taxpayer money.
 Kaufert's bill was amended in an Assembly committee last week and would require FoodShare recipients to spend at least two-thirds of their benefits on a list of foods that state officials have judged healthy.
 No studies have looked at the spending on different kinds of groceries within Wisconsin's FoodShare program, said Stephanie Smiley, spokeswoman for the state Department of Health Services, which administers the program.
 The state agency doesn't have a position on the bill.
 Because of the lack of solid figures, Kaufert said he isn't sure that the current level of FoodShare spending on nutritious foods isn't already higher than the level set in his bill.
 "Nobody knows anything except anecdotally," Kaufert said of current FoodShare spending.
 "That's part of the problem."
 Sherrie Tussler, executive director of Hunger Task Force in Milwaukee, said there isn't enough justification for the substantial costs and other impacts that the bill would likely bring for taxpayers, businesses and food producers.
 "AB-110 does not explain how it would improve the healthy food choices of FoodShare recipients," Tussler said.
 "Although well-intended, AB-110 is outside of the budget of the Wisconsin taxpayer.
 We just can't afford all of the grocery store nannies this would take to implement."
 The costs of implementing the program have been a concern for grocery stores.
 That includes Dave Spiegelhoff, a third-generation grocer and owner of Gooseberries Fresh Food Market in Burlington and Spiegelhoff Super Valu in Kenosha.
 "We as grocers will do whatever we can to make this work but the cost has to weigh heavy on what our grocers are going to do," said Spiegelhoff, chairman of the Wisconsin Grocers Association.
 "This one certainly has potential to be problematic at store level."
 Today's FoodShare recipients simply swipe an electronic card similar to a debit card to spend their benefits.
 Kaufert's proposal would need to be integrated into that system.
 Brandon Scholz, president of the Wisconsin Grocers Association, said both the state and grocery stores would need to make significant computer system changes to do that.
 Grocers would also need to code new food products by hand to fit into that system, he said.
 The association moved from opposing the bill to being neutral on it after the proposal was amended to require a state study of the costs for groceries and warehouses before implementing it.
 Scholz said he appreciated the changes to the bill but won't make any "forward-looking statements" on it until he has more details on how the proposal would be carried out.
 Other business groups aren't waiting.
 Opponents of Kaufert's bill include Kraft Food Group - the food giant whose holdings include Oscar Mayer Co. in Madison - PepsiCo Inc. and state associations representing food processors, convenience stores and retailers.
 Ultimately, however, none of the bill's opponents may have anything to worry about.
 To implement the bill, Wisconsin officials would have to persuade President Barack Obama's administration to waive existing rules in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, the federal program that goes by FoodShare in Wisconsin.
 A Chicago spokesman for the U.S. Department of Agriculture, which oversees FoodShare and SNAP, didn't return a phone message seeking comment.
 But Kaufert said federal officials have rejected similar proposals when put forward by other states.
 About Jason Stein Jason Stein covers the state Capitol and is the author with his colleague Patrick Marley of "More than They Bargained For: Scott Walker, Unions and the Fight for Wisconsin."
 His work has been recognized by journalism groups such as the American Society of News Editors, the Society of American Business Editors and Writers, and the Association of Capitol Reporters and Editors.
