 11.  Introduction 
  Criminal recidivism poses a serious risk to
 public safety.   As many as two-thirds of 
released inmates return to prison within a few 
years (BJS (2002a)), and data from the National 
Corrections Reporting Program show that approximat
ely 40 percent of all criminals sent to U.S. 
prisons over the last twenty years were already convicted felons.  Recently, victims™ advocates 
and others have argued that persons convicted of sex offenses are highly likely to ﬁsame crimeﬂ 
recidivate (see Langan et al. (2003) and Vásquez et al. (2008)).  Although criminal behavior 
typically declines steeply with age after the earl
y twenties, the decline for sex offenses may be 
more gradual (Hanson (2002)).  Partly for th
ese reasons, and because of a few high-profile crimes in the late 1980s and early 1990s, sex offe
nders have become the focus of considerable 
legislation and public spending aime
d at reducing their recidivism. 
 In the 1990s, two sets of laws targeting 
sex offenders proliferated across the United States.  A federal mandate in 1994 (the Jacob Wette
rling Act, named after the victim of a crime 
in Minnesota) required that states create registri
es of sex offenders for use by law enforcement.  
Another federal mandate in 1996 (Megan™s Law, named after a victim in New Jersey, Megan 

Kanka) required that states provide public notification of the location of sex offenders to local residents or other ﬁat riskﬂ groups.  The basic motivations for regi
stration and notification were, respectively, to aid law enforcement in supe
rvising and apprehending sex offenders who may 
recidivate and to help local households protect themselves through monitoring and avoiding 
offenders in their neighborhoods.    Despite the widespread use of sex offender re
gistration and notification laws, it is unclear whether they have been successful in reducing crime by sex offenders, or whether they have 
achieved other goals (e.g., increasing the probability of arrest).  It is also unknown whether sex offenders respond (or are able to respond) to these laws in other ways (e.g., selecting their victims differently).  The answers to these que
stions are important not only for evaluating the 
costs and benefits of registration and notification laws, but also for understanding how an important group of convicted criminals re
sponds to changes in legal sanctions.1                                                  1 Empirical work provides so
me support for the cl
aim that criminals in general 
react to changes in expected 
punishment (e.g., Levitt (1998), Kessler and Levitt (1999), 
Nagin (1998)).  However, it is unclear whether this is 
true for all types of individuals (see McCrary and Lee (2005) on juvenile offenders), and whether these results 
extend to sex offenders in particular is unknown (see Bachman et al. (1992)).   
  2The first studies that sought to measure the 
impact of registration and notification laws 
(Schram and Milloy (1995) and Adkins et al. (20
00)) compared recidivism rates of offenders in 
Iowa and Washington State released just before
 and after registration 
and notification laws 
became effective.  While neither study found a st
atistically significant difference in subsequent 
arrests for sex offenses between these two groups, both studies relied on small samples of 
offenders.  More recent studies have examined
 the relationship between the timing of laws™ 
passage and changes in the annual frequency of sex offenses across states using UCR data (Shao and Li (2006), Agan (2007), and Vásquez et al. (2008)).  Taken together, these studies find little evidence that these laws had a significan
t impact on the number of sex offenses.
2 While we also use the timing of changes in st
ate laws to study the impact of those laws 
on criminal behavior, we are able to offer ne
w evidence on a number of
 different questions because our analysis differs significantly from 
earlier work in both the data we use and the 
methodology we employ.  First, we conducted ex
tensive research into the sex offender legislation of various states, and found that earlier studies had used incorrect legal dates or had mischaracterized these laws.  U
nderstanding the timing and scope of this body of law is not easy, 
partially because sex offender laws have changed over time due to legislative amendments and 
judicial decisions.3  We also take advantage of information on the exact dates when laws became 
effective by using monthly data a
nd allowing for variation in crime frequency within years, in contrast to the earlier work using annual data. Second, unlike existing work, our analysis distinguishes between sex offender registration and notification laws.  Notification laws require the dissemination of information 
about sex offenders (e.g., criminal history, phys
ical description, home address, etc.).  
Registration laws, in contrast, re
quire that sex offenders provide such information to a public 
authority (e.g., local police), but this data is otherwise kept confidential.  While registration requirements are intended solely to help law 
enforcement track and apprehend recidivist 
                                                 2 Only Shao and Li (2006) report any evidence that offe
nder registration laws caused
 a statistically significant 
reduction in sex offenses.  However, their findings 
are sensitive to empirical 
specification and they group 
registration and notification laws together as a single treat
ment.  Agan (2007) offers so
me evidence that posting sex offender information on the internet reduced the number 
of arrests for sex offenses, but her results are similarly 
sensitive and open to alternative interpretations. 
3 We describe the history of sex offender registration and notification laws in Section 2 and provide basic 
information on these enactments in Appendix Table 1. 
  3offenders, notification laws aim both at reducing 
crime through greater public awareness and by 
facilitating capture conditional on the commissi
on of a crime (Prentky (1996), Pawson (2002), 
Levenson and D™Amora (2007)).  We also differe
ntiate among various features of notification 
laws, e.g., access to paper registry, internet 
access, or proactive community notification.
4    Third, we use variation in the number of offe
nders actually registered
 with authorities to identify different ways in which registration and notification may influenc
e criminal behavior.  
For example, the main channel by which notificati
on laws are expected to reduce recidivism is 
by making the public aware of nearby sex offender
s, but they may also 
reduce crime by raising 
the punishment for first-time sex offenders (whose crimes and personal information will be made 

public upon release if they are caught and convicted).  While notific
ation should have little effect on recidivism when registries are empty, the potential effect on first-time or simply unregistered 
offenders should be invariant to the number
 of offenders actually registered.   Finally, we examine the effects of these la
ws on the relationship mix between offenders 
and victims in addition to the overall frequency of
 reported sex offenses.  Neither registration nor notification were intended to a
ffect the ﬁincidenceﬂ of sex offenses across different types of victims, but some observers have suspected that 
notification laws might s
imply displace crime by 
changing the population of victims targeted by sex 
offenders (see Prentky (1996), Filler (2001)).  We also study changes in the probability that an arrest is made given a reported sex offense, and 
that the offense reported is not prosecuted, despite arrest, because the victim refused to cooperate 
or the prosecution declined to pursue the case for some other reason. 
 We find evidence that actual registration of 
released sex offenders is associated with a 
significant decrease in crime.  This is in line with predictions from a simple model of criminal 

behavior in which providing information on offenders to local authorities increases monitoring 
and the expected punishment for recidivism.  Mo
reover, the drop in the overall frequency of reported sex offenses associated with registration is due primarily to
 reductions in attacks against ﬁlocalﬂ victims who are known to an offender (i
.e., a family member, friend, acquaintance, or 
                                                 4 Shao and Li (2007) do not differentiate between notifica
tion and registration laws.  Vásquez et al. (2008) state 
explicitly that they examine both ﬁregistration and notifica
tionﬂ laws, but do not distinguish between the two in their 
empirical work.  Agan (2007), on the other hand, recognizes the distinction with respect to internet availability of 
registry information, but nevertheless does not include or consider other kinds of notification.  
  4neighbor).  Importantly, sex offenses by strangers appear unaffected by registration, indicating 
little or no substitution from local to more ﬁdistantﬂ victims.   
 We also find that the implementation of a 
notification law (regardl
ess of the number of 
registered offenders) is associated with a reduction in the overall frequency of sex offenses.  One 
potential explanation for this effect, again consiste
nt with our model, is 
that notification raises 
the punishment for future offenders.  Importantly
, we find no evidence that notification laws (as opposed to registration laws) reduced crime by lo
wering recidivismŠthe estimated effect is 
actually weaker
 when a large number of offenders are on th
e registry.  This finding is potentially consistent with a number of explanations.  But, as we show below, the evidence on balance 

supports the existence of a significant ﬁrelative 
utilityﬂ effect, in which convicted sex offenders 
become 
more
 likely to commit crime when their information is made public because the 
associated psychological, social, or financial costs make crime more attractive. 
 The rest of the paper proceeds as follows.  In Section 2, we describe the variation in the 
timing and scope of state registration and notific
ation laws.  Section 3 lays out the potential 
effects of registration and notification using a simple model of cr
iminal behavior and presents 
our basic empirical methodology.  Section 4 descri
bes our data.  We pr
esent our results in Section 5 and robustness checks in Sec
tion 6.  We conclude in Section 7. 
 2.  The Evolution of Sex Offender Re
gistration and Notification Laws
   To characterize the sex offender registra
tion and notification laws properly for the empirical work below, we painstakingly researched
 the evolution of these laws in states covered in the 1990s by the National Incident Based Reporting System (NIBRS), the data used in our analysis below.5  We divide the legal changes we study 
into four categories: registration, public access, internet availability, a
nd active notification.  Registration requires that sex offenders                                                  5 See the Data Appendix.  Determining accurate effectiv
e dates proved difficult.  When we compare our legal 
analysis to the dates used by Shao an
d Li (2006), Agan (2007), and Vásquez et al. (2008), we find a low rate of 
agreement.  Among the 50 states and DC there are only 13 instances (16 instances) in which all studies agreed on 
the exact date (calendar year) that regi
stration became effective.  For example, 
Utah™s first generally applicable sex 
offender registry became effective on 
March 30, 1983.  Shao and Li use May 
19, 1987, a date we cannot locate in 
legislative history, but which is close to the enactment (as 
opposed to effective) date of a 1987 law that re-codified 
and amended the registration law.  Agan (2007) uses July 1, 1984, which likely refers to a 1984 law that also 

amended the original 1983 enactment, but 
the effective date for that law was Fe
bruary 16, 1984.  Vásquez et al. use 
the year 1996, when Utah passed
 a notification law granting public
 access to registry information. 
  5provide authorities with identifying information upon release from custody or probation.  Until 
notification laws were enacted, this information wa
s held confidential.  Police typically increase 
surveillance of registered offenders and can more easily locate, investigate, and apprehend them. 
The remaining three categories of lawsŠpublic 
access, internet availability, and active 
notificationŠare designed to make information a
bout offenders available to the public, rather than to assist police directly.  The public can, in theory, reduce sex offender recidivism by avoiding convicted offenders or by reporting suspicious behavior.    Since the late 1980s and early 1990s, states 
have typically proceeded from using basic 
registration laws, to relying on mo
re restrictive and varied forms 
of public access, to eventually 
placing all sex offender registration information onto the internet.
6  Many states have also implemented ﬁactive not
ificationﬂ regimes.
7  At each stage, states al
so had to decide whether to make their registration or notification laws retroactive in their application.  Retroactivity 

provisions specify which offenders are covered by the laws in light of the timing of their conviction or their release from custody.  These provi
sions allow us to calculate the sizes of state sex offender registries.8  We use all of this cross-state variationŠin exact timing, scope, and 
registry sizeŠto identify the causal effect
s of registration and notification laws.  
 Figure 1a shows the timing of adoption of re
gistration, public access, internet availability, 
and active notification for each NIBRS state (see al
so Appendix Table 1), as well as the year in 
which agencies from each state began reporti
ng to NIBRS.  While sex offender laws have 
evolved in a similar fashion from state to stat
e, Figure 1a demonstrates that the timing and 
content of these laws varies considerably.  For example, Idaho began registration and (limited) 
public access simultaneously in 1993, but did not
 have an internet registry until 2001 or 
                                                 6 Sex offender ﬁweb registriesﬂ allow the public to search for offenders using an individual™s name or alias, or 
search for all offenders living near a specific address. 
7 Examples of active community notification include announcing the release or residential moves of sex 
offenders through notices in local newspapers, by personal visits or letters to former victims or others considered at-
risk, and opt-in provisions, which allow citizens to reques
t notification if a certain sex offender or one satisfying 
certain conditions is released or moves.   
8 For example, Massachusetts™ registration law, eff
ective October 1996, required anyone convicted of a 
qualifying sex offense on or after August 1, 1981 to register.  As a result, close to 8,000 offenders were registered 
when the registry became effective (Boston Globe (1996)).  
Other states made their laws 
prospective.  For instance, 
Michigan™s registration law, effective on October 1, 1995, required registration of individuals ﬁconvicted or 
releasedﬂ on or after that date.  As 
a result, when the law became effective,
 Michigan™s registry was empty.   
  6community notification until 2003.  
Texas, in contrast, began registration in 1991, started both 
public access and community notification in 1995, and launched an internet site in 1999.   
Endogeneity in the timing of thes
e laws is unlikely to be a problem for several reasons.  
First, unlike criminal law in general, where rising
 crime rates might lead to increases in penalties 
or police spending, many state sex offender laws 
were passed quickly, in response to one or two well-publicized and usually gruesome incidents.
  Indeed, many sex offender laws are named 
after the victim who sparked the legislative effo
rt, and sex offense rates (like rates of other crimes) actually declined in the 1990s, the period
 in which most of these laws were passed.  Second, federal laws passed in 1994 and 1996 (motivated in part by specific crimes against 
individual children in Minnesota and New Jersey) required states to
 pass registration and notification laws.  These federal laws left states with discretio
n as to substance and timing, but had minimum requirements and imposed deadlines.
  Finally, the timing of passage was also 
partly dictated by pre-existing legislative schedules (e.g., the Kentucky, North Dakota and Texas legislatures meet only once every two year
s) rather than by sex offense trends. 9  3.  Conceptual Model and Empirical Framework
  To generate testable hypotheses and to aid in
 the interpretation of
 our empirical results, 
we consider a simple model of criminal beha
vior.  Criminal offenses committed by individual 
i against victim 
j are governed by a victim-specifi
c probability of punishment (pij) and cost of targeting the victim (
cij), a level of punishment if convicted (
fi), and utility from committing 
crime, relative to legal behavior (
ui) that is invariant across victims.
10  Sex offenses require victims, and the laws we consider
 were specifically intended to ma
ke it difficult for offenders to 
victimize people in their vici
nityŠneighbors, acquaintances, and friends.  By assumption, 
                                                 9 Whether a sex offender law is made retroactive is also 
unlikely to be endogenous to crime rates.  Criminal 
laws with retroactive features can violate the U.S. and 
state constitutions.  The decision whether to make a law 
retroactive in any particular state 
turned in significant part on governing judicial opinions in the state. 
10 This model is adapted from the structure of Becker (1968
).  The utility term is an analog to Becker™s concept 
of the individual™s ﬁwillingness to commit an illegal act.ﬂ  The assumption that the relative utility of criminal 
behavior is invariant across victims may not be true in a strict sense (a particular offender may prefer targeting, for 
example, a stranger to a neighbor, conditional on actual costs), but any variation can be reinterpreted as a difference 

in victim-specific targeting costs.  
In any event, becau
se we focus on 
changes
 in these terms caused by registration 
and notification laws, the assumption is not critical 
to motivating or interpreting our empirical work. 
  7offenses are increasing in the rela
tive utility of crime commission (
ui), and decreasing in the cost 
of targeting a victim (
cij), punishment probability (
pij), and punishment severity (
fi). 
Oij = Oij (c
ij, pij, fi, ui)              (1) 
 Registration and notification laws are likely to
 influence the number of offenses through 
several specific channels.  Registration may increase the abil
ity of police to monitor and 
apprehend registered
 sex offenders (RSOs), raising pij for RSOs and particularly so for local victims.  This feature of registration may also
 affect forward-looking, unregistered individuals because punishment (
fi) now includes a higher future probability of detection.
11  However, so long as registry information re
mains confidential, registration 
alone should not alter the cost to targeting victims (
cij) or the utility of crime commission (
ui). 
 NotificationŠeither via public 
access to registry informati
on, an internet registry, or 
active community notificationŠmay further affect 
criminal behavior.  First, punishment for sex 
offenses now includes public airing of one™s personal information and criminal history.  This 
publicity has negative consequences for RSOs, in
cluding loss of employment, housing, or social 
ties; harassment; and psychological 
costs such as increased stress,
 loneliness, and depression (see Zevitz and Farkas (2000a), Tewksbury (2005), 
and Levenson and Cotter (2005)).  Thus, for potential (or otherwise unregistered) sex offenders, punishment severity (
fi) would be higher because any conviction would newly subject the offender to this sort of publicity.  In contrast, RSOs already suffer notification costs.  While committing another offense 
may prolong their registration in 
the distant futureŠthe federal minimum registration period is 
10 yearsŠmany states have lifetime registration fo
r violent sex offenders, and some states have 
lifetime registration for all sex offenses.  Mo
reover, the consequences of notification (e.g., difficulty finding employment) may cause RSOs
 to commit more crime (Freeman-Longo (1996), 
Prentky (1996), Winick (1998), Presser and Gunn
ison (1999), Edwards and Hensley (2001)).  In the context of our model, punishment (
fi ) would stay constant for RSOs (or increase slightly), 
while the relative utility 
of criminal behavior (
ui) would rise.12                                                  11 The registry might also lower the probability of punishment (
pij) for first-time offenders if police shift 
resources towards monitoring RSOs.  Unfortunately
, we cannot determine whether this occurs. 
12 Although we conceive of these burdens on offenders 
as raising the relative utility of criminal behavior, one 
  8 In addition, by allowing local re
sidents, friends, and acquaintances to identify and avoid registered offenders, notification may increase th
e costs of targeting this subset of potential victims (
cij).  Indeed, a major motivation for the pa
ssage of Megan™s Law was the belief that Megan Kanka would have avoided her fate had her parents been notified of her eventual attacker™s presence in the neighborhood.  However, it is uncl
ear to what degree notification will reduce the overall
 number of sex offensesŠnotification 
may instead ﬁaccomplish nothing more 
than changing the neighborhood in which the offender looks for victimsﬂ (Prentky (1996)).  In 
other words, notification may disp
lace crime rather than reduce it.
13    
 While we lack information on whether any particular crime in our data was committed by 
a registered sex offender, the ideas laid out above suggest how the effects of these laws can be 
identified and distinguished by using variation in the size of sex offender registries.  Specifically 
the effect of registration on crime via increased probability 
of punishment should be small when 
relatively few offenders are registered, and should grow with the relative size of the registry.  The potential impact of registration on the punishment level (
fi) for forward-looking, unregistered individuals, however, would not depend (or depend very little) on the size of the 
registry.  Likewise, notification may raise the punishment (
fi) for potential (or unregistered) sex offenders, reducing aggregate crime, irrespectiv
e of the size of the sex offender registry.14  Notification may also have severa
l, offsetting effects on the behavior of registered sex offenders by increasing the cost of targeting local victims (
cij), increasing the probability of punishment for 
local crimes (
pij), slightly increasing the level of punishment (
fi), and increasing offenders™ relative utility of crime commission (
ui).  The consequence of thes
e combined effects for overall 
crime is indeterminate, but it is likely to
 grow in magnitude with registry size.  
                                                                                                                                                               could also think of them as lowering punishment levels because they make life in prison seem relatively more 
attractive.  Regardless, both effects would increase the numb
er of offenses committed by registered sex offenders. 
13 In addition to raising the cost of targeting local vict
ims, notification may also raise vigilance and knowledge 
of an RSO™s actions within his neighborhood.  This ﬁcomm
unity policingﬂ effect (Lie
b (1996)) could increase the 
likelihood that an offender is apprehended if he attacks 
a local victim.  Again, if th
e likelihood of punishment only 
rises for crimes against local victims, offenders may simply offend in other neighborhoods.  Crime displacement has 

been an important consideration in othe
r empirical research on criminals™ resp
onses to changes in their environments 
(e.g., Jacob et al. (2004), Di Tella an
d Schargrodsky (2004), Iyengar (2007)). 
14 This response may in turn affect aggregate offe
nder-victim relationships if offenders™ probability of 
punishment is correlated with their relationship to victims.  For example, the reporting rate to police, and hence the 
probability of punishment, may be lower for crimes committed against children within families (see Filler (2001)). 
  9 To carry out this analysis, we estim
ate the following reduced-form equation: 
jtsjtst3st2st1st0sjjttjjtRgSizeNtRgNtRgDXCrime*                                 (2) 
Crimejt is a measure of crime frequency (e.g., o
ffenses per 10,000 people) for reporting area j in time period 
t.  j is a reporting area fixed effect to captu
re any persistent heterogeneity in crime 
across areas, 
t is a time effect to capture secu
lar changes in crime over time, and 
Xjt are time-
varying reporting area characteristics th
at are likely to impact crime.  
stRgand stNt are vectors indicating that state 
s had a sex offender registry or a notification law in place during time period 
t, and RgSizejt is a vector measuring the size of the offender registry in area 
j in time period 
t.  sjD indicates that
 reporting area j is located in state 
s.    0 represents the deterrent effect of an offender registry on non-RSOs and should be negative in sign if the registry increases the pun
ishment faced by unregistered individuals (due to 
the threat of future registration).15  A stronger prediction of our model, however, is that 2 should be negativeŠan increase in the probability of punishment for RSOs should lower crime by more 
when there are relatively more RSOs, i.e., when 
the registry is relativel
y large because relatively more potential recidivists are registered.
16  1 captures the effect of 
notification on potential (or unregistered) sex offenders.  We hypothesize that 
this coefficient should be negative, reflecting                                                  15 We use the term non-RSO to refer to both first-time offenders and individuals previously convicted of a sex 
offense but not required to register (e.g., offenders released prior to the passage of a non-retroactive registration 
law).  Also, the identification of 
0Šthe effect of a registry with no registrantsŠhas no in-sample variation from a 
few of the states in our analysis.  Massachusetts™ and Sout
h Carolina™s registration laws 
retroactively affected large 
numbers of released offenders, and Texas and Utah joined the NIBRS well after their registries had begun.   
16 Registry size could, in theory, influence the behavior of 
potential
 sex offenders if their behavior responded 
either to contemporaneous registry si
ze or the expected size of the regist
ry in the future.  In that case, 
2 and 3 would capture mixes of deterrence and recidivism reduction.  Potential offenders 
might
 have believed that resources 
devoted to tracking each offender would grow with registry size, or they might have believed the opposite or 

nothing.  They may have believed a large registry would overwhelm the public with information or reduce the 
stigma against sex offenders as more offenders were ﬁrevealed,ﬂ or they may have believed that larger registries 
would attract more attention and more stigma surrounding sex offenders (which is what seems to have occurred).  

Nevertheless, we know of no evidence that potential offenders considered registry size in making their decisions, 
and it seems to us improbable.  Still, although we interpret 
2 and 3 as recidivism effects al
one in the remainder of 
the paper, some small portion of the effects we identify could result from non-registered offender behavior. 
  10the greater punishment for unregiste
red individuals from notification.
17  In contrast, there is no clear prediction for 
3 due to notification™s offsetting effects on RSO behavior.  A finding that 
3 is negative would indicate that notification reduces the availabil
ity of victims and would bolster 
claims made by proponents of notif
icationŠafter all, protecting the public from recidivism was 
the law™s intended effect.  However, if offenders shift to more distant victims or commit more 

crime because publicity has made criminal behavi
or relatively more attr
active, our estimate for 
3 could be close to zero or even positive.
18  We can also use Equation 2 to examine the 
impact of registration 
and notification on the distribution of relationships betw
een victims and offenders.  Because registration laws apply to 
sex offenses regardless of the victim-offender 
relationship, if a law increases punishment for 
non-RSOs (0 and 1), the effect should be similar across a
ll relationship types.  However, with respect to RSO behavior, the impact 
of a registry should be greatest (2 most negative) for offenses against ﬁlocalﬂ victims.  We would expect
 to find a smaller negative effect with respect 
to distant relationship offenses or, potentially, a positive effect if offenses are being displaced 
from local to distant victims (e.g., 
strangers).  How the effect of notification on RSO crimes (
3) should vary across victims is unclear.  If the in
creased cost of targeting local victims is a 
dominant effect, then a negative effect for local 
victims and a zero or positive effect for distant 
victims is likely.  However, if 
the increased relative utility of crime commission is the dominant 
effect, then we might see a positiv
e effect across all victims.   
                                                 17 The identification of 
2 relies to a greater extent on out-of-sample
 variation because only a few of the NIBRS 
states passed a ﬁfull notificationﬂ statute at the same time as
 their registration law, and most states did not do so until 
several years after their registration law became effectiv
e.  Nevertheless, our data does include a considerable 
number of observations in which the number of registered offenders per 10,000 persons is quite low relative to the 
sample mean.  For example, the 10th percentile registry si
ze among observations with a 
full notification law in place 
is about 6 offenders per 10,000 persons, and the 10th percentile
 within each state is at or below 6 per 10,000 in nine 
of the fifteen NIBRS states.  Our estimat
es, presented below, suggest that a notification law with this low level of 
registration would still have a negative and statistically significant effect on crime frequency.   
18 One concern with the use of registry size is the potentia
l for reverse causation, given that registry size will be 
influenced by the number of sex offenses committed in the past.  In practice, however, registry size is primarily a 
function of how long the registry has been in existence, the degree to which the registration law applied retroactively 

to previously released offenders, the inclusion or exclusio
n of offenders convicted of less serious crimes, and overall 
compliance with the registration law.  Additionally, the lag 
with which new offenders are added to the registry is 
likely to be quite long.  For individuals sent to prison in 2002 whose first listed offense was Rape, Sexual Assault, 

and Child Molestation, the median sentence length was 120, 72, and 68 months, respectively, and the fraction with a 
sentence of one year or less was 1.7, 2.5, and 1.8 percent, respectively (authors™ calculations, 2002 National 
Corrections Reporting Program data).  Thus, only a very small amount of registry size growth is due to recent 

convictions, and any short-run change in the frequency of sex offenses driven by other factors is unlikely to be 
correlated with sh
ort-run changes in registry size. 
  11 When examining arrests and dropped cases to 
interpret the crime frequency results, we 
use incident-level data to estimate similar equations.  For example:   
itsitst3st2st1st0siittjitRgSizeNtRgNtRgDXArrest*                                 (3) 
Subscript i denotes an incident in reporting area 
j.  Incident-lev
el variables (Xit) include details about the crime known to police (e.g., characte
ristics of the victim, offender, and their 
relationship, the offense type, the number of victims and offenders 
involved, etc.).    When predicting the effect of registration a
nd notification laws on arrests, both police and offender behavior are relevant.  A registry or a notification law should not influence the likelihood of arrest for non-RSOs (0 and 1) through changes in police behavior because police have no additional information about these individuals.
19  However, if the punishment level (
f) rises, potential offenders may offend less, subs
tituting away from marg
inal victims where the 
probability of punishment (
p) is relatively highŠsuggesting that any effects on the likelihood of arrest (
0 and 1) should have the same signs as on offense frequency (
0 and 1).   
 The predicted effect on arrest rates for RSO cr
imes is also unclear.  The direct effect of 
the registry (
2) should be to increase arrest rates, reflecting increased monitoring and 
apprehension.  However, RSOs may respond by for
going offenses against victims where arrest is 
relatively more likely.  Therefore, the effect on arrests should be positive if there is no change in recidivism, but small if RSOs offend less or 
shift toward victims where the probability of 
punishment has not risen.  A similar analysis 
applies to notification.  A direct effect (3) on RSOs via ﬁcommunity policingﬂ should increase the 
arrest probability.  Howe
ver, if local victims 
use notification to avoid RSOs, increasing targeting costs (c), offenders will only attack local 
victims with low probabilitie
s of punishment, and average 
observed
 arrest rates will drop.  Notification may also increase the number of offe
nses by increasing the relative utility of crime 
commission (
u).  This would increase arrest probabiliti
es, theoretically, as offenders victimize 
those for whom the probability of punish
ment was previously too great.   
                                                 19 Importantly, if monitoring RSOs or responding to c
itizen complaints about RSOs becomes so expensive or 
time consuming that the police are not able to investigate cr
imes or perform other activities (e.g., foot patrols) likely 
to deter crime, then non-RSOs would eventually per
ceive the effects of these changes and might react by 
committing more crime. 
  12Thus, the impact of these policies on arrest pr
obabilities must be inte
rpreted in light of their impact on overall crime frequency.  In genera
l, our analysis of arrest data (and of dropped cases) aids in verifying the robustness of our offense frequency findings.  Table 1 gives the 
predicted relationships between the registration and notification variables in Equations 2 and 3 and the model parameters and outcomes of interest.
20    4.  Data  NIBRS, our primary data source, is a pa
rt of the FBI™s Uniform Crime Reporting 
Program (UCR), but presents several opportunities
 for research that are unavailable with 
standard UCR data.  First, NIBRS links informa
tion on victims, offenders, and arrestees for each incident in the dataset.  Thus, in addition to examining the impact
 of registration and notification on reported crime frequency, we are able to exam
ine effects on the relationship mix between 
offenders and victims (or the ﬁincidenceﬂ of sex offenses) and on the ability of police to secure 

an arrest for a reported crime.  Second, the timing 
information of each incident is superior in the 
NIBRS data, allowing us to better exploit within-year variation in the timi
ng of sex offender laws to identify our results.  While UCR data are avai
lable by month, the UCR date reflects when an 
incident was reported, whereas NIBRS re
ports the date the incident occurred.21    NIBRS does suffer from significant limitations, 
however.  First, like most crime data, 
NIBRS only contains information on incidents reco
rded by police.  Changes in reported crime 
may be driven by true changes in victimization or
 by changes in reporting.  We return to this 
issue when interpreting our findings.  Another limitation is that
 NIBRS data only started to become available in the 1990s, and only a subset of
 states participates in the program.  In 1995Š
                                                 20 We also examine ﬁdropped casesﬂ following arrest that
 are due to non-cooperation by victims or decisions by 
prosecutors not to pursue a case.  These variables are ava
ilable in the NIBRS and are of interest to us, but are not 
part of our model and so we leave discussion of
 these issues until we present our results below. 
21 If the date of occurrence is not known to the policeŠthis occurs for about 20 percent of sex offensesŠthen 
NIBRS reports the date on which the crime was reported.  
Unfortunately, NIBRS does not report both dates, so we 
cannot directly measure the lag between occurrence and report.  However, we can get a sense of the gap between 
incident and report dates by exploiti
ng the fact that a subset of crimes 
reported in NIBRS took place in a prior 
calendar year (i.e., some crim
es that occurred in year 
T are reported in the data from year 
T+1).  We examine all sex 
offenses (excluding 2005) by the calendar month in which 
they took place and measure th
e fraction reported in the 
following year.  Of the sex offenses th
at took place in December, 11 percent we
re reported the year after, while the 
corresponding figures for November, July, and March were 7,
 2 and 1 percent, respectively.  Thus, most crimes are 
reported within a few months after they
 take place but a non-trivial 
fraction is reported with 
a considerable lag.  In 
any event, our qualitative results are not sensitive to dropping
 crimes for which an incident date is unavailable. 
  13one year after the federal governme
nt required that states create sex offender registries and one year before it required the registry information to be publicŠthe
re were just nine states; by 1998, eight more states had joined, and 30 states were
 included as of 2004.  Our analysis focuses on 15 
states that were in the NIBRS by 1998:  Colorado, Connecticut, Idaho, Iowa, Kentucky, 
Massachusetts, Michigan, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Carolina, Texas, Utah, Vermont, and Virginia.
22  Third, within each state, the num
ber of reporting agencies (or ORIs) generally increases over time.  We
 include ORI fixed effects in all of our regressions.  Thus, in 
addition to taking account of the growth in the nu
mber of reporting agencies over time, we also 
control for persistent heterogeneity in ORI characteristics.
23  In NIBRS, multiple offenses can be reported in
 a single incident, and so we classify an 
incident as a sex offense if any of the reported offenses fell under one of three sex offense categories: rape and sexual assa
ult, sexual molestation (called ﬁf
orcible fondlingﬂ in NIBRS), or other non-violent sex offenses (i.e., ﬁincestﬂ and ﬁstatutory rapeﬂ).24  We also create variables for 
the relationship between victims and offenders by 
dividing victims into three groups based on the 
intimacy of their relationship with
 the offender: ﬁclose,ﬂ ﬁnear,ﬂ and ﬁstranger.ﬂ  The close group includes family members, signif
icant others, and friends; the near group includes neighbors, acquaintances, or offenders ﬁotherwise known,ﬂ and the stranger group includes incidents where the victim claimed the offender was a stranger 
or where the offender-v
ictim relationship was 
unknown to the victim (which is distinct from ﬁmissingﬂ).   
                                                 22 These states are geographically
 diverse, but they do not 
include any states from the 
far west (e.g., California) 
or the ﬁdeepﬂ South (e.g., Mississippi).  Tennessee and West Virginia also joined the NIBRS in 1998.  However, 
both had passed registration and notification laws by that time, so we did not pursue them further. 
23 Although the NIBRS surveys ORIs on a monthly basis, 
an ORI may not complete every report in a year.  We 
exert considerable effort to ensure th
at our results are not driven by report
ing errors, a full accounting of which is 
given in the Data Appendix.   
24 Incidents of other crimes are used in our analysis to
 control for other time varying factors that cause changes 
in crime rates within an ORI over time.  We classify non-sex
 crimes as either ordinary 
assault or ﬁotherﬂ crime, in 
order to control for overall rates of crime and a type of vi
olent crime arguably more similar to sex offenses.  We 
classify an incident as an assault if one of the offenses listed fell under an assault category but none of the offenses 
was a sex offense.  This latter condition affected only a small number of incidents: only 0.3 percent of incidents with 

a sex offense also had an assault and just 0.02 percent of assaults also had a sex offense.  Likewise, incidents of 
ﬁotherﬂ crime do not contain either a 
sex offense or an ordinary assault. 
  14Table 2 shows summary statistics on the sample of incidents we examine.
25  For purposes of comparison, we also include information on or
dinary assaults.  Assaults are more common 
than sex offenses, with more than 14 assaults for every sex offense.  Repor
ting of incident dates, arrest rates, and time until arrest are quite different for the two types of crime.  The frequency 

with which incident dates are not reported (and only a report date is available) is higher for sex offenses (19 vs. 13 percent).  Arrests are less common for sex offenses (26 vs. 37 percent) and 
the time to arrestŠconditional on the arrest occu
rring at least one day after the incidentŠis considerably longer (24 vs. 14 days).  The relationship between offenders and victim
s is similar for sex offenses and assaults, 
with family members and acquaintances as the 
two most common categories of offenders.  The 
overall fraction of (reported) incidents with an acquaintance is somewhat higher for sex offenses 
(31 vs. 24 percent) but incidents of sex offense are less common between all family members (26 
vs. 30 percent) and significant others (8 vs. 18 percent).  For both sex offenses and ordinary assaults, in about 20 percent of incidents the victim claimed that the offender was a stranger or 
did not know his/her relationship to the offender.   Assaults and sex offenses differ substantia
lly in the demographic characteristics of 
victims.  While 51 percent of sex offense vi
ctims were below age 15, the corresponding figure for assault is only 9 percent.  Sex offense victims are also more likely to be female (87 vs. 58 
percent) and white (78 vs. 68 percent).  Offender characteristics between the two crimes also 
differ.  The age distribution of sex offenders is wider than for assault, with more mass in both the 
youngest and oldest age groups.  Reported sex offenders are much more likely to be male (96 vs. 
77 percent) and somewhat more likel
y to be white (69 vs. 62 percent).  Finally, we classify each incide
nt based on the laws in effect and the number of offenders on the registry at the time the crime took place.  
When analyzing data aggregated to the reporting 
agency-month level, our legal variab
les reflect the law as of the 15
th day of the calendar month.  
While complete historical data on the size of registries is unavailable (particularly for early 

years), we have gathered an extensive amount of
 information on state registry sizes at various 
points in time.  Under the assumption that regist
ries grew smoothly over time, we can use this 
                                                 25 Additional data detail can be found in Appendix Ta
ble 2, which provides summary statistics on the 
aggregated (to the ORI-month level) NIBRS data, the legal data, and the county and state demographic data we use 
in most of our empirical work below. 
  15data to estimate how registries evolved during our sample pe
riod.  Details on this estimation 
procedure are given in the Data Appendix.  5.  Crime Frequency and Relationship Mix Results 
 We estimate the effects of registration 
and notification laws using the regression specifications outlined in Section 3.  All regressi
ons include ORI fixed effects, year and month 
fixed effects, and control for annual per-capita income, unemployment, and poverty rates and the 
fraction of the population in five ethnicity categories and five-year age categories at the county level.  In addition, for some sp
ecifications, we include the number of ordinary assaults and of other crimes committed per 10,000 persons as proxies for ORI-specific time-varying factors that 

influence crime rates and may be correlated with
 the legal variables.  Though we do not report the coefficients, both assault rates and ﬁother crimeﬂ rates are always positively related to sex 

offenses and are highly statistically significant.26    The registry indicator signifies that the stat
e has an active offender registry, and registry size is measured using our empirical estim
ates, as explained in the Data Appendix.
27  For notification, recall that there are 
three types of notification: pub
lic access, internet access, and 
community notification.  Within 
these categories, we focus on statutes that implied widely 
available or ﬁfullﬂ public access 
to sex offender information, meaning access was not subject to 
the discretion of local authorities and where the public could inquire about local offenders in general, as opposed to a specific person inquiry. 
 Full internet access indica
tes that the internet 
                                                 26 Including assault and other crime may be problematic in that these may also be affected by sex offender laws, 
depending on their substitutability/complementarity in 
both their commission and reporting.  However, their 
inclusion turns out to have little influence on our results 
and, if anything, decreases the size of our estimated 
coefficients.  We therefore view 
them as appropriate controls for 
time-varying unobservable factors. 
27 Internet and active notification laws do 
not
 necessarily apply to all registered sex offenders.  In our sample, as 
of 2008, seven of the fifteen states we
 study listed 100% of their registered offenders on their web registry and ten 
listed more than 95% of all registered offenders.  Ho
wever, five states listed significantly less than 95% 
(specifically, Colorado, Iowa, Massachusetts, Nebraska, 
and North Dakota) on their internet registries.  
Overestimating the size of the (internet access and active) no
tification-relevant registry
 should only affect our 
estimates of the coefficient on the interaction of relevant 
notification provision with registry size and, if anything, 
the overestimate should bias these resu
lts toward zero (making our estimates reported below a lower bound).  To 
verify this logic, we ran regressions using a rough proxyŠthe ratio of individuals on a state™s web registry to the 
total number of sex offenders registeredŠto calculate a separa
te registry size for the interactions with an internet 
site and active notification.  As predicted, the estimates 
(discussed below) grew in magnitude and retained similar 
statistical significance levels.  These results 
are available from the 
authors upon request. 
  16registry is on-line and generally complete.
28  Full community notification means a law that 
makes notification mandatory and 
requires either neighbors or the media be provided with sex 
offender information.  Figure 1b shows the timing of the effective dates of these laws.  In our 

regressions below, we define having a notification law to mean that at least one of these ﬁfullﬂ 
versions of notification 
is in place and effective.29  The unit of observation in our analysis is
 an ORI-by-month cell, and the dependent 
variable is measured as 
annualized incidents per 10,000 persons covered by the ORI (i.e., we multiply monthly incident rates by 12, for ease of interpretation).
30  The regressions are weighted by ORI population coverage so that the coefficients
 reflect average changes in crime risk faced 
by a typical person covered by the NIBRS sample, 
and to account for likely heteroskedasticity.31  Finally, because our sample includes a small number
 of states and our registry size variable is 
empirically estimated, using standard OLS estimat
es of standard errors or even clustering by state can lead to incorrect statistical inference (Donald and 
Lang (2007), Cameron et al. (2007), 
Murphy and Topel (1985)).  To correct our standard errors for both of these problems, we use a 
bootstrap procedure, outlined in the Data Appendix.                                                   28 We located news articles in six states suggesting that th
e internet registry was incomplete when launched, i.e., 
it was missing information on a large share of registered offenders.  For two of these states, we found notice of when 
the web registry was completed.  For the four states where we have an indication of incompleteness but do not have 
any notice of completion, we consider the internet to be fully available three months after the site was launched. 
29 Given the limited number of states and the fact that notification laws are designed to work in a similar 
fashionŠlowering information costs and increasing 
disseminationŠour primary specification uses any full 
notification law in effect.  One complication that arises from
 this framework is that two states in our sample (Texas 
and Ohio) had registration and no
tification laws in place prior to the start of
 the NIBRS data period.  Thus, variation 
in crime frequency within these states 
does not contribute to the identification of the main effects of these laws.  
Dropping these states from our sample has very little impact
 on our results, and we report
 replications of our main 
results with a restricted 13 state sample in Appendix Table 3. 
30 Studies of crime frequency often examine the natural 
log of crime as a dependent variable in regression 
analysis (see, e.g., Shao and Li (2007)).  This transformation is problematic in our case because we use monthly data 
from very disaggregate areas and therefore have many observations in which zero sex offenses occur.  However, for 
comparison purposes, we also estimate regressions where the dependent variable is the natural log of offenses plus 

one per 10,000 persons.  The results from these specificati
ons are quite similar in sign and significance to our 
measure of crime per 10,000 persons, and 
are available upon request.  The similarity of the results is not surprising, 
given that we weight our analysis by covered population an
d thereby rely more on larger
 areas that are unlikely to 
have months without the occurrence of at least one sex offense. 
31 To illustrate the heteroskedasticity issue, suppose we 
have two ORIs, each with te
n sex offenses per 10,000 
persons in a given month, but one ORI has 1000 persons and another has 100,000.  These two values correspond 

roughly to the 5
th and 95
th percentile of covered population among ORIs in our sample.  The smaller ORI in this 
example had only one sex offense, and would drop to zero per 10,000 persons if there are no crimes the following 
month (which is quite likely to happen given sampling variation).  In contrast, the large ORI had 100 sex offenses 
during the month, and is much less likely to drop to zero per 10,000 due to sampling error. 
  17Our results for the overall frequency of sex offenses are shown in Table 3.  We find no 
evidence that registries deter first-time sex offende
rs.  Specifically, the impact of an (empty) sex 
offender registry is estimated to be positive, 
but imprecisely estimated.  Importantly, however, 
we do find that requiring registration reduces recidivism
, presumably by increasing monitoring 
and the likelihood of punishment fo
r potential recidivists.  The interaction of the registry indicator with the size of the registry is negative and statistically significant, as predicted by our model.  The estimate in column (2) of -0.096 imp
lies that each additional sex offender registered per 10,000 people reduces reported annual sex offenses per 10,000 by 0.096 crimes.  This is a 

substantial (1.1 percent) reduction and, if correct, would support placing information about 
offenders in the hands of local law enforcement to combat recidivism. 
 Notification laws also appear to affect the 
frequency of sex offenses.  The estimates in 
Table 3 suggest that notification makes a noticeabl
e difference in criminal behavior, but not in 
the way that proponents of these laws in
tended.  The estimated effect of the 
existence
 of a notification law on the frequency of sex offenses is negative and statistically significant.  If our identifying assumptions are correct, the estimate 
in column (2) suggests 
that notification laws reduce crime frequency by -1.05 crimes per 10,000 
persons per year (about 11.5 percent) via a deterrent effect on individuals not currently registered as sex offenders.  But the interaction of notification with registry size is 
positive and statistically significant.  In the context of our model, 
this implies that any beneficial impact of regi
stration on recidivism is dampened by the use of 
notification.  This also suggests that the punitive aspects of notification laws may cr
eate perverse effects (as discussed in Section 3).  A basic tr
ade-off may exist in the 
sex offender notification contextŠwhile some first-time offenders are de
terred by notification sanctions, the imposition of 
those sanctions on convicted offenders ex post may
 make them more likely to recidivate.
32 Assuming our evidence is accurate and our
 interpretation is valid, how should a 
legislature approach this trade-off?  For a simp
le back-of-the-envelope analysis, imagine a state 
                                                 32 Another possible explanation for the increase in crime frequ
ency associated with an increase in registry size is 
that either the state authorities or citizens become overwhe
lmed with the number of offenders as the registry size 
grows.  This strikes us as unlikely.  First, with respect to the police, we continue to see a reduction in the number of 

offenses as the registry grows under a registration regime
, suggesting that, although su
rely costly, police are not 
being overwhelmed to the point where an additional regist
rant actually reduces the overall effectiveness of the 
system.  Second, notification regimes are primarily local.  Therefore, most of the increase in registry rolls amounts 

to an increase from zero registered o
ffenders to two or three in a neighborhood or zip code.  Citizens are not 
expected to track thousands of offenders, and, indeed, notification systems are not designed to work that way.   
  18that must decide 1) whether to 
enact a registration law, 2) whet
her to enact a notification law, and 3) how many offenders to cover with these laws
.  We estimate that an empty registry has an 
insignificant positive effect on annual sex offenses (0.24 per 10,000 people, p-value 0.62).  

However, actual registration of offenders (absent notification) appears to reduce crime.  For 
example, the estimated total effect of registrati
on with an average-size registry (16 offenders per 10,000 people) is a reduction of 1.3 sex offenses per 10,000 people (p-value 0.07).  On the other 
hand, notification laws appear to be attractive only when the size of the registry is relatively small.  We estimate that implementing a notific
ation law deters 0.64 yearly sex offenses per 10,000 people (p-value 0.04) for a registry with 4.7 offenders per 10,000 persons (the 10th percentile of registry size).  In contrast, combining a notification law with a registration law 
when the registry is of average size has an insignificant 
positive effect on sex offenses (0.34 per 10,000 people, p-value 0.33), though the overall impact of the combined laws is still a reduction 
of 0.94 yearly sex offenses per 10,000 people (p-value 0.18).   If a state uses both registration and notification, the level of coverage, assuming equal 
coverage, turns out to be somewhat unimportant
 if the only criterion is the total number of 
crimes committed.  This is because the notification 
interaction coefficient is similar in magnitude 
to the registration interaction coefficient, and the 
difference is not statistically significant.  As a result, our data do not indicate that a larger registryŠwhen comb
ined with notificationŠreduces 
crime.  In fact, a larger registry may incr
ease overall sex offense frequency.  Given the significant social and individual costs of maintaining a large regist
ry, one possible implication of these estimates is that states should consider na
rrow notification regimes, in which all or most 
sex offenders are required to register, but only a small subset of those o
ffenders are subject to 
notification.
33  Alternatively, states might
 consider notification substitutes capable of similar 
deterrence gains, but that avoid notification-rela
ted recidivism.  Because notification laws were 
enacted to reduce recidivism, not to deter, ou
r results suggest a reevaluation of notification requirements may be necessary.  
                                                 33 As noted above, one-third of the states in our sample do not apply their most stringent notification 
requirements to all RSOs.  Unfortunately, our empirical strategy precludes our saying anything about whether these 

states are closer to a crime-minimizing mi
x of sex offender policies.  Of course, in the context of our model, reduced 
application of the stringent notification provisions may reduce their 
deterrent
 effect as well. 
  19 We also estimate regressions in which 
we disaggregate our previously singular notification measure into three different types 
of notification regimesŠfull public access, full 
internet access, and full active notification.
34  As one would expect, disaggregating results in less precision, and yet the basic pattern of results is unchanged.  The co
efficients on all three types of notification laws and their interactions with registry size have the same signŠnegative main 
effect, positive interactionŠand the standard errors are too large to reject the hypothesis that they are equal.  Nevertheless, it is worth noting that the coefficient on the main effect of active 
community notification is noticeably larger in magnitude, implyi
ng greater deterrence of first-time offenders in the context of our model.  Th
e strength of the active 
notification result makes 
sense, as active notification is perhaps the most
 intrusive form of notification and therefore may 
have particular deterrence value.  In Table 4, we investigate the extent to wh
ich registration and notification laws may have 
affected the relationship mix of of
fenders and victims.  As noted 
in Section 4, we divide victims 
into three groups based on their relationship with the offender: ﬁclose,ﬂ ﬁnear,ﬂ and ﬁstranger.ﬂ  Notification laws are designed specifically to protect individuals who know offenders or come 
into contact with them in their local area by help
ing these potential target
s avoid situations in which they or their friends and relatives could be victimized.  Accordingly, we examine whether 
(as lawmakers hoped) the frequency of crimes ag
ainst victims who were close or near to the 
offender drops, and whether (as lawmakers had 
not hoped) the frequency of ﬁstrangerﬂ sex offenses increases due to crime displacement.  
To interpret our results and understand the drawbacks of our a
pproach, it is important to 
recognize that the NIBRS relati
onship variable has one geographic element (neighbor), but is 
generally organized by the level of familiarity the victim has with the offender (e.g., friend, 
acquaintance, etc.) or by family status (e.g., s
pouse, sibling, etc.).  For our purposes, we are 
interested in the effect of sex offender laws on crime in those relationships where the existence 
of a notification regime would he
lp a victim to learn of a poten
tial offender™s status or where registration would help the police interfere with a crime or apprehend an offender.   
For notification-based recidivism reduction, 
our model suggests that the ﬁneighborﬂ and ﬁacquaintanceﬂ relationships, although they are 
both under- and over-inclusive, are the most 
                                                 34 These results are available 
from the authors upon request. 
  20susceptible to change.  Family members (s
pouses, siblings, etc.) presumably already 
know
 of an offender™s status (although perhaps not in every caseŠe.g., step parent), and strangers (who are not neighbors, by assumption) would have less reason to learn of an offender™s status.  Moreover, web registries require either a request about a specific person or a localized search around an address (i.e., a neighbor) and active notification regimes typica
lly notify only neighbors (those within a specified radius of an RSO™s address)
 or former victims.  Both facts decrease the 
likelihood that individuals would have significant knowledge regarding offenders who do not live nearby and with whom they do not
 have any personal connection.   Thus, a reduction in recidivism due to notif
ication should primarily reduce the frequency 
of offenses against ﬁnearﬂ victims (neighbor
s, acquaintances, or ﬁotherwise knownﬂ), even though the categories that make up ﬁnearﬂ vi
ctims are a hodgepodge of geographic and familiarity considerations.  Similarly, under regi
stration, our model indica
tes that RSOs may be 
more easily monitored (both around their familie
s and in their neighborhoods) and more easily 
identified as suspects when a nearby crime occurs
.  Therefore, we predict that a registration regime is most likely to imp
act ﬁcloseﬂ and ﬁnearﬂ offenses. 
 The results of our incidence analysis suppor
t these predictions and the interpretation of the results presented in Table 3.  According to our model, the deterrent effects of registration and 
notification laws should not alter the relationship mix of sex 
offenses because, by definition, first-time offenders are not currently register
ed (so neighbors, for example, cannot protect 
themselves).  The results in Table 4 are cons
istent with this predictionŠnotification has a deterrent effect that is, percentage-wise, si
milar in magnitude across relationship groups, 
although the estimate for strangers is
 not precisely estimated.  In a
ny event, there is no evidence that the effect differs across groups, and, for all groups, the estimated coefficients on the 
indicator for having a registry are not statistically significant.   
However, consistent with the hopes of policymakers, the interactions between the 
registration law indicator and the size of the registry are negative and of similar magnitude for 
both the close and near victim groups.  In cont
rast, the estimated inte
raction for the stranger group is slightly positive, and, though statistically indistinguishable from zero, fairly precisely 
estimated.  The effects in Table 4 for ﬁcloseﬂ an
d ﬁnearﬂ victims are marginally significantly 
different from zero (p-values of 0.15 and 0.10, respectively), consistent with the idea that   21registration helps reduce crime by local offenders 
against local victims or family members.  The 
estimates imply that each additional register
ed sex offender per 10,000 persons reduces these 
group specific sex offense rates, in total, 
by 0.063 per 10,000 persons.  Registration of sex offenders with law enforcement does not appear 
to reduce crimes committed against more distant 
individuals, but the estimated coefficient in colu
mn (4) also does not indicate an increase in sex offenses against strangers due to displacement, as some critics feared might happen.
35  Our model provides an ambiguous prediction for 
the effect of the interaction between the notification law indicator and the si
ze of the registry.  If notification laws make it more costly for 
a sex offender to target local victims (raising 
cij), then we should see negative effects on the 
frequency of sex offenses for ﬁnearﬂ and ﬁcloseﬂ victims, but less of a reduction or even an 
increase (if there is displacement) for stranger vic
tims.  Alternatively, if notification laws instead 
primarily reduce the rela
tive utility of legal behavior for RSOsŠby making life outside of prison 
less attractiveŠcrime might increase as the registry
 grows.  Furthermore, if notification laws do 
not alter the relative cost of a
ttacking certain victims, crime increases should be similar across 
groups.  Table 4 favors this last scenario.  The 
notification-registry size
 interaction is positive 
and statistically significant across all groups, and, as percentages, the increases are almost identical (with stranger crimes 
increasing by 0.77 percent, while crimes against close and near 
victims rose by 0.90 percent and 0.69 percent, resp
ectively).  Thus, notification may serve as a 
deterrent against non-registered offenders, but ma
y be less effective at reducing recidivism by 
prompting local victims to protect themselves.  In 
fact, a relative utility effect, one that increases 
recidivism of sex offenders subject 
to notification, seems plausible.   
The estimated effects of registration and notif
ication laws on various arrest variables for 
all sex offenses are shown in Table 5.36  Neither of the arrest variables shows a statistically 
                                                 35 We have also conducted an analysis that disaggrega
tes ﬁcloseﬂ relationships into 
ﬁfamilyﬂ and ﬁnon-familyﬂ 
(i.e., significant others and friends).  The results for both
 groups were similar in sign
 and statistical significance to 
the results for all ﬁcloseﬂ relationship crimes.   
36 For analysis of arrests and dropped cases, as noted in 
Section 3, we examine incident-level data instead of 
ORI-month aggregates.  We also drop the controls for assaults and other crimes (which are aggregate statistics) and 
include incident-specific variables in addition to victim
 and offender age indicators, 
victim and offender sex and 
ethnicity indicators, indicators for the type of offender-victim relationship, indicators for the number of victims and 
the number of offenders (capped at four), and indicators for the type of sex offense (i.e., rape and sexual assault, 
sexual molestation, other non-violent sex offense).  The motivation for this added set of covariates is to control as 

best we can for the information available to law enforcement authorities and to examine law enforcement 
performance conditional on this information.   
  22significant relationship with either type of law.  If the decrease in crime frequencies associated 
with registration was indeed caused by increa
sed probability of punishment, the response by 
offenders to this changed probability must undo (in 
equilibrium) any detectable change in arrest 
probability and in the time to arre
st.  The notification coefficients show the same pattern.  A 
notification law may reduce the number of crimes, 
but does not appear to increase the probability 
of arrest.  The coefficient on the interaction of notification with registry size is also statistically 

insignificant.  The estimate is positive, as woul
d be predicted by a change in crime due to a 
relative utility effect, but it is also very imprecisely estimated.
37 At a minimum, our analysis provides eviden
ce to support the claims
 of those who argue that registration and notification laws matter.  Registration laws 
seem to reduce recidivism, and 
notification laws appear to deter those not currently registered.  Our work also suggests that notification laws may harden registered sex o
ffenders, however, making them more likely to 
commit additional sex offenses, perhaps because crim
inal behavior is relatively more attractive 
for registered sex offenders living under a notification regime.  
 6.  Robustness Checks In this section, we address possible concerns about our results and our interpretation of them.  We inquire first into the possibility that
 our results are due to some omitted variable or 
trend by checking whether our identification approach generates similar results for non-sex 
related crimes.  We also discuss the robustness 
of our specification and sample choice.  Second, 
we consider whether our results, especially with 
respect to the ﬁrelative utility effect,ﬂ might be 
driven by changes in reporting behavior.  We cannot
 completely rule out this possibility, but we 
present a number of findings that seem inconsistent with this explanation.  
                                                 37 With respect to dropped cases, we find little evidence that the probability a victim would not cooperate was 
associated with the registration and notification variables.  Looking at the probability that the prosecution decides 
not to prosecute someone for lack of evidence, we find suggestive evidence that this occurred more frequently in 

areas with a registry in place but few regi
stered offenders, but less frequently 
as the number of registered offenders 
rose, at least until the advent of notification.  This result 
could make sense.  For example, prosecutions may suffer at 
the start of a registration regime as police personnel ar
e used and criminal justice 
resources are spent on the 
construction and introduction of the regi
stry, but as the number of registered
 offenders rises, police may have access 
to more and better information about local offenders, leading 
to stronger average cases.  
Later, with the arrival of 
notification, prosecutors may find that 
the advantages of registration informa
tion to the state became degraded when 
community members also had this information, perhaps becau
se of false accusations (to which we will return).  The 
evidence here, however, allows only speculation. 
  23 6.1. Falsification Tests and Specification Checks 
 One concern with our basic results is that 
there may be changes in crime frequency due to 
other unobservable factors correlated with registration and notification laws.  We control for a 
number of local economic and demographic vari
ables and for contemporaneous crime, but our 
empirical strategy may still suffer from omitted variables bias.  To increase our confidence that 

there is indeed a relationship between sex offe
nses and registration and notification laws, we repeat our analysis on the overall frequency of other types of crime that we believe are far less likely to be affected by the crim
inal behavior of sex offenders or individuals on the margin of committing a first sex offense.  We expect these 
ﬁplacebo testﬂ estimates to show no statistically 
significant relationships between the laws and crime frequencies.
38    We selected auto theft, drug offenses, fr
aud, weapons violations, forgery, and larceny because, while our intuition is that these crimes
 are quite different from sex offenses, many of 
them occur with roughly similar fr
equency.  Of the 24 coefficients we estimate, we find only two 
statistically significant relationships between reported crime 
rates in these non-sex offense categories and our registration and notification variables (which
 might easily occur randomly), 
and neither of these coefficient estimates mimics our basic results.
39  More importantly, the signs and magnitudes of all of the coefficients increase 
our confidence that our earlier results are not 
driven by spurious correlation with general trends in crime.  Fo
r example, the coefficients on 
registry size are all positive or very close to zero in these specifications.    Another concern when dealing with relatively
 few states in a quasi-experimental setting 
like ours is that one large state might plausibly account for all of
 the relevant results (see Currie                                                  38 According to our model, the relative utility effect 
generated by notification mi
ght cause registered sex 
offenders to commit more crime in general.  In that sense,
 with respect to the interaction of notification laws and 
registry size, this exercise should 
not be viewed as a falsification check in the usual sense.  However, we 
purposefully selected a number of comparison crimes that are very different from sex offenses to reduce the 
likelihood that changes in the behavior of registered sex offenders would show up in their overall frequencies.  
Released sex offenders do commit many other types of crime besides sex offenses.  For example, among all sex 
offenders released in 16 states in 1994, subsequent arrests 
for auto theft occurred half 
as frequently as arrests for 
another sex offense (Authors™ Calculations, data from ICPSR Study #3335 ﬁRecidivism of Prisoners Released in 
1994ﬂ).  However, while released sex 
offenders are far more likely to be arrested for sexual offenses than other 
released criminals, they are considerably less likely to be
 arrested for the crimes we 
consider here.  Given that 
released sex offenders constitute a relatively small portion 
of all released criminals, it seems likely that the portion 
of incidents committed by sex 
offenders in these ﬁplaceboﬂ
 categories is very low. 
39 For weapons crimes, there is a significant negative co
efficient on the indicator 
for whether a registry is 
effective, but we previously found no evidence that the ex
istence of a registry alone had any effect on sex offense 
frequency.  Registry size also has a 
significant effect on the number of
 larcenies, but the sign is wrong. 
  24and MacLeod (2007)).  We check the robustness of our findings to this possibility by running a series of regressions in which one state is dropped from the samp
le.  We find that the estimated 
coefficients remain quite robust 
to the exclusion of each state. 
Our analysis controls for ORI effects, m
onth and year effects, local economic and 
demographic characteristics, and for contemporan
eous crime trends, but it remains possible that 
our approach attributes the consequences of some unknown trend to our registration and notification variables.  Up to this point, we have
 not included state-specific trends in our analysis because one of our key variablesŠregistry 
sizeŠclosely approximates a state trend (see 
Appendix Figure 1).  By including a state trend as a control variab
le, we effectively throw away 
a great deal of information in 
an attempt to account for a possi
ble, but entirely hypothetical and 
unknown state-level linear trend.  Nevertheless, even though we view our earlier results as more 
reliable, estimating such specifi
cation is a useful exercise. 
In Table 6, we present our original results, along with the results from a specification that 
includes state-specific linear trends (in columns (3
) and (6)).  Our findings are fairly robust to the inclusion of the trends.  The magnitude of th
e direct notification effect drops, but remains 
marginally statistically significant (p-value of 0.16).
40  The coefficient on registry size is smaller 
but similar in magnitude relative 
to the other specifications and marginally significant (p-value 
of 0.13).  The interaction of notification and registry size remains highly significant regardless of the specification.  The inclusion of linear state-specific trend controls thus changes the picture slightly, but, in most important respects, the 
basic results from Table 3 remain intact.  
Equation 2 assumes that the effects of registra
tion and notification laws on RSO behavior 
(but not non-RSO behavior) increase linearly with registry size.  This could be problematic for at 
least two reasons.  First, notification regimes with very larg
e registries might overwhelm 
potential victims, making it less useful than a 
narrow notification regime.  Second, and more 
likely, a large registry could stretch police resources, making re
gistration and notification less effective (and even counterproductiv
e), at least once a registry reach
es a certain size.  We believe 
these effects are unlikely in prac
tice.  The maximum registry size 
in our sample is less than 40 
                                                 40 It is worth noting that the coefficient on notification is statistically significant at the 5% level when we restrict 
our sample to the 13 states that actually passed a notification statute during our sample period.  With the addition of 

state-specific linear trends as controls, it makes less sense 
to include the two states (Texas and Ohio) for which there 
is no legal variation in registration and full notification during our sample period.
   25per 10,000, while the average numbe
r of police per 10,000 people in the U.S. during this time 
period was about 20 (Evans and Owens (2007)).  However, to explore these possibilities, we estimate a specification similar to Equation 2 in 
every way except for the inclusion of two new quadratic terms in registry size: 
jtsjtst5st4sjsjtst3st2st1st0sjjttjjtRgSizeNtRgDRgSizeNtRgNtRgDXCrime2*                            *                                 (4) 
The results (available upon request) indicate that our prior specification is appropriate.  The quadratic coefficient estimates are extremely 
small and statistically insignificant, while the 
estimates for the main effects of registration a
nd notification and the linear interactions with 
registry size are nearly the same in 
magnitude and statistical significance. 
 6.2. Reporting Behavior Like most studies of criminal behavior
, we can only examine the frequency of 
reported crime, and it is therefore possible that our fi
ndings are affected by cha
nges in victim reporting 
behavior.  Reporting may be a particularly impor
tant issue for sexual offenses; data from the 
National Crime Victimization Surv
ey (1996-2005) indicate that less than 50 percent of rape and sexual assault victimizations are reported to the police.   
Sex offender notification laws may reduce 
reporting by victims who have a personal 
relationship with the offender and consider the law to be an overly harsh new punishment.  But 
this seems unlikely to be the entire stor
y, given the effects we find for neighbors and acquaintances, and that we find a decrease in crime associated with registration alone.
41  Registration and notification laws may also cause 
offenders to move away from family, friends, 
and acquaintances due to a ﬁshamingﬂ effect.  
Thus, a decrease in crimes against these groups could be explained by reduced contact with offenders.  However, it seems more likely, 
a priori, that this type of mechanical ch
ange in the relationship mix of 
reported offenses would be greater                                                  41 Changes in reporting behavior might also lead us to underestimate the effects of registration on recidivism.  
For example, if registration leads victims to believe that thei
r reports are more likely to le
ad to an arrest, they might 
be more likely to report crimes.  We do not regard this story as likely.  While victims may know of a registry™s 

existence, they are prob
ably unlikely to know whether their assailant is 
registered.  However, th
e estimated effect of 
simply having a registry, while positive,
 is never statistically significant.   
  26for community notification than registration, 
which does not match our
 findings.  Finally, a community notification law could decreases sex offenses regardless
 of the number of registered 
offenders if the law increases awareness of se
x offenses in general and makes all potential 
victims more cautious.  Unfortunately, we
 cannot test this hypothesis directly.  More importantly, our finding that the intera
ction of notification and registry size is associated with an increase in crime could be 
generated by two different plausible changes in reporting behavior.  As a registry grows and an increasing number of individuals are notified that 
a sex offender lives nearby, there could be both (1) an increase in the frivolous reporting of sex offenses because the proximity of a sex offender 
is made known and salient and (2) an increase 
in the number of 
true reports for crimes that would othe
rwise have gone undetected.  Both of these hypotheses are possible, but we find little evidence to support them in the data.   
If frivolous reports of sex offenses had increased, holding offender behavior constant, we would expect to see either a reduction in the likelihood that a report led to an arrest (because the average case reported has, all else 
equal, less merit) and/
or an increase in th
e probability that a case was dismissed by the prosecutor, because the 
average case became weaker.  In our analysis 
reported in Table 5, we found that the estimated interaction of notif
ication with registry size was positive for the prosecutorial dismissal rate but it was also positive and of the same magnitude 

for the arrest rate.  Thus, it is hard to reconcile our results on the interaction of notification and registry size with a simple
 story about reporting bias. We can also use the fact that shifts in repor
ting behavior may affect different types of sex 
offenses differently to test the robustness of our results.  While 
registration and notification laws apply uniformly to rapists and child molest
ers, one might hypothesize that both types of 
reporting biases described above (frivolous reporting and meritorious reporting of previously 
undetected crime) are a concern primarily in the 
molestation context.  Information that a sex 
offender lives nearby may make parents more awar
e of their children™s behavior or whereabouts, and lead parents to investigate their suspicions more than they would have without that 
information.  But knowledge of the proximity of a 
sex offender alone may be less likely, all else equal, to change reporting behavior substantially in the case of forcible rape. When we separately examine child molest
ation (ﬁforced fondlingﬂ in NIBRS) and forcible rape, which constitute the bulk of all sex offenses (see Table 2) using the specification in 
  27Equation 2, we see no evidence of shifts in reporting behavior.42  If increased reporting accounted for our findings, we would expect to see 
the notification-registry size interaction effect only in forced fondling cases, or at least primarily
 in those cases.  Instead
 we find identical point estimates (both statistically significant) for both 
types of sex offenses.  The notification-registry interaction effect (in percentage terms) is somewhat higher for f
ondling than it is for rape, but that difference is small. 
 7.  Conclusion  
 Using detailed data on state laws and in
cident-level crime data from NIBRS, we 
examined the effect of registration and notifica
tion laws on the total frequency of crime, the 
incidence of that crime on various victim gr
oups, and on police performance, conditional on a 
crime occurring.  We find evidence that registra
tion laws reduce the frequency of sex offenses, particularly when the number of registrants is large, suggesting there are benefits of providing information on convicted sex offenders to local au
thorities.  We estimat
e that an average-size registry (16 offenders per 10,000 people) results in a reduction of almost 1.3 sex offenses per 
10,000 people, approximately a 14 percent reduction from the sample
 mean. This reduction in 
crime was locally concentrated, in line with th
e intentions of policymakers, with greater 
reductions among victims with a personal connection to offenders.   We also find evidence that notification 
laws reduce crime, but do so by deterring 
potential criminals, not necessarily recidivists. 
 Our estimates imply that notification laws reduce 
crime when the size of the registry is small, but 
that these benefits dissipate when more offenders 
become subject to notification requi
rements.  At the average registry
 size, in fact, we find that a 
notification regime (not in
cluding the distinct effects of a registration system) 
increases the number of sex offenses by more than 0.3 offenses
 per 10,000 people, or 3 percent.  These results suggest that notification may serv
e as a deterrent to unregistered individuals, but registered offenders subject to notification may commit more 
crime, perhaps because of social and financial 
costs associated with the public release of their personal information.   
 Though researchers are still in 
the process of measuring the 
benefits of registration and notification laws, the costs have been well documented.  A number of researchers have 
                                                 42 These results are available 
from the authors upon request. 
  28established the financial, physical, and psychological damage done
 to registered sex offenders and their families (e.g., Zevitz and Farkas (
2000a), Tewksbury (2005), and Levenson and Cotter 
(2005)).  The labor and capital costs to law enforcement agencies who are required to monitor 
offenders can also be substantial (Zevitz and Farkas (2000b)).  Moreover, there is evidence that these laws have created financial and psychol
ogical costs for neighbors of registered sex 
offenders.  Linden and Rockoff (2008) and Pope (2007) document declines in property value for 
households living close to registered offenders, and several studies find little evidence that community notification alleviates concerns among community me
mbers who have been notified 
of an offender™s presence (Zevitz and Farkas (2000b), Beck and Travis (2004) (2006)).    The lack of empirical evidence on the benef
its of registration and notification has not 
stopped politicians and policymakers from further 
regulation of sex offenders.  Registration and notification laws are, in some 
sense, old technology.  Today, states are in the midst of imposing 
ever more draconian laws, such as residency re
strictions and civil commitment, as a means to 
reduce recidivism among sex offe
nders.  These more restrictive policies clearly impose higher 
costs on sex offenders and their families than 
registration and notification laws, and future research is needed to understand the impact 
of these policies on criminal behavior.  
  29References Adkins, G., Huff, D., Stageberg, P. (2000)
 ﬁThe Iowa Sex Offender Registry and Recidivism,ﬂ Report of the Iowa Department 
of Human Rights, Division of Criminal and 
Juvenile Justice Planning and 
Statistical Analysis Center. 
 
Agan, A. (2007) ﬁSex Offender Registries: Fear without Function?ﬂ Unpublished Manuscript. 
 
Bachman, R., Paternoster, R., Ward, S. (
1992) ﬁThe Rationality of Sexual Offending: 
Testing a Deterrence/Rational Choi
ce Conception of Sexual Assault,ﬂ Law and Society Review 26(2): 343Œ372.  
Beck, V.S. and Travis, L.F. (2004) ﬁSex Offender Notification and Fear of 
Victimization,ﬂ 
Journal of Criminal Justice 32(): 455Œ63  
Beck, V.S. and Travis, L.F. (2006) ﬁSex
 Offender Notification: A Cross-State Comparison,ﬂ 
Police Practice and Research 7(4): 293Œ307  
Becker, G.S. (1968) ﬁCrime and Punishment: An Economic Approach,ﬂ 
Journal of Political Economy 76(2): 169Œ217.  
Boston Globe (October 5, 1996) ﬁHigh-risk Sex Offenders to be Named on TV,ﬂ by 
Jordana Hart, Globe Staff. 
 
Bureau of Justice Statistics (2002a) ﬁRecidivism of Prisoners Released in 1994.ﬂ  U.S. 
Dept. of Justice, Office of Justice Programs (March): NCJ 193427 
 Bureau of Justice Statistics (2002b) ﬁFact Sheet: Summary of State Sex Offender 
Registries, 2001.ﬂ  U.S. Dept. of Justice, Office of Justice Programs (March): NCJ 192265. 
 
Cameron, C., Gelbach, J.B., Miller, D.L. 
(2007) ﬁBootstrap-Based Improvements for 
Inference with Clustered Errorsﬂ Florida Stat
e University Law and Economics Research Paper 
Series, Paper No. 07/002.  
Currie, J. and MacLeod, W.B. (2008) ﬁFirst Do No Harm?  Tort Reform and Birth 
Outcomes,ﬂ 
Quarterly Journal of Economics 123(2): 795Œ830  
Di Tella, R. and Schargrodsky, E. (2004) ﬁDo Police Reduce Crime? Estimates Using the 
Allocation of Police Forces 
after a Terrorist Attack,ﬂ 
American Economic Review 94(1): 115Œ133.  
Donald, S.G. and Lang, K. (2007) ﬁInference with Difference-In-Differences and Other Panel Data,ﬂ The Review of Economics and Statistics
 89(2): 221Œ33.  
Edwards, W. and Hensley, C. (2001) ﬁContextualizing Sex Offender Management 
Legislation and Policy: Evaluating the Problem of Latent 
Consequences in Community   30Notification Laws,ﬂ International Journal of Offender Therapy and Comparative Criminology 45(1): 83Œ101.  
Evans, W.N. and Owens, E.G. (2007) ﬁCOPS 
and Crime,ﬂ Journal of Public Economics 
91(1): 181Œ201.  
Filler, D.M. (2001) ﬁMaking the Case for Megan™s Law: A Study in Legislative 
Rhetoric,ﬂ Indiana Law Journal 76: 315Œ345.  
Freeman-Longo, R. (1996) ﬁPrevention or Problem,ﬂ 
Sexual Abuse: A Journal of Research and Treatment 8(2): 91-100  
Hanson, R.K. (2002) ﬁRecidivism and Ag
e: Follow-Up Data from 4,673 Sexual 
Offenders,ﬂ Journal of Interpersonal Violence 17(10): 1046Œ62.  Iyengar, R. (2007) ﬁI™d Rather be Hanged for a Sheep than a Lamb: The Unintended 
Consequences of ‚Three-Strikes™ Laws,ﬂ Unpublished Manuscript.  Jacob, B.A. Lefgren, L. and Moretti, E (2004) ﬁThe Dynamics of Criminal Behavior: 
Evidence from Weather Shocks,ﬂ
 NBER Working Paper #10739.  
Kessler, D. and Levitt, S.D. (1999) ﬁUsing Sentencing Enhancements to Distinguish 
between Deterrence and Incapacitation,ﬂ Journal of Law and Economics 42(1): 343Œ63.  
Langan, P.A., Schmitt, E.L., Durose, M.R. (2003) ﬁRecidivism of Sex Offenders 
Released from Prison in 1994,ﬂ Bureau of Justice Statistics Report NCJ 198281.  Levenson, J.S. and Cotter, L.P. (2005) ﬁThe Effect of Megan™s Law on Sex Offender Reintegration,ﬂ 
Journal of Contemporary Criminal Justice 21(1): 49Œ66.  
Levenson, J.S. and D'Amora, D.A. (2007) ﬁSocial Policies Designed to Prevent Sexual 
Violence: The Emperor's New Clothes?ﬂ 
Criminal Justice Policy Review
 18(2): 168Œ99  
Levitt, S.D. (1998) ﬁJuvenile Crime and Punishment,ﬂ 
Journal of Political Economy 106(6): 1156Œ85.  
Lieb, R. (1996) ﬁCommunity Notification Laws: ‚A Step Toward More Effective 
Solutions,™ﬂ 
Journal of Interpersonal Violence 11(2): 298Œ300.  
Linden, L.L. and Rockoff, J.E. (2008) ﬁEstimates of the Impact of Crime Risk on 
Property Values from Megan™s Laws,ﬂ 
American Economic Review 98(3): 1103Œ27.  
McCrary, J., and Lee, D.S. (2005) ﬁCrime
, Punishment, and Myopia,ﬂ NBER Working 
Paper #11491.    31Murphy, K.M., and Topel, R.H. (1985) ﬁEstimation and Inference in Two-Step 
Econometric Modelsﬂ 
Journal of Business and Economic Statistics 3(4): 370Œ79  
Nagin, D.S. (1998) ﬁCriminal Deterrence Resear
ch at the Outset of the Twenty-First 
Century,ﬂ Crime and Justice
 23: 1Œ42.  
North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation, ﬁNC Sex Offender and Predator Statistics 
by Countyﬂ 1996 Œ 2001, Online at: sbi2.jus.state.nc.us/crp/public/other/sexofsum.htm 
 
Ohio Legislative Service Commission (2002) ﬁOhio Facts 2002.ﬂ  
Pawson, R. (2002) ﬁDoes Megan™s Law Work? 
A Theory-Driven Systematic Review,ﬂ 
ESRC UK Centre for Evidence Based Po
licy and Practice, Working Paper 8  
Pope, J.C. (2007) ﬁDo Scarlet Letters Lead to Scarlet Homes? Household Reactions to 
Public Information from Sex Offender 
Registries,ﬂ Unpublished Manuscript.  
Prentky, R.A. (1996) ﬁCommunity Notification and Constructive Risk Reduction,ﬂ Journal of Interpersonal Violence 11(2): 295Œ98.  
Presser, L. and Gunnison, E. (1999) ﬁStrange Bedfellows: Is Sex Offender Notification a Form of Community Justice?ﬂ 
Crime Delinquency
 45(3): 299Œ315.  
Schram, D.D. and Milloy, C.D. (1995) ﬁCom
munity Notification: A Study of Offender 
Characteristics and Recidivism,ﬂ
 Washington State Institute for 
Public Policy Working Paper. 
 Shao, L. and Li, J. (2006) ﬁThe Effect of Sex Offender Registration Laws on Rape Victimization,ﬂ Unpublished Manuscript. 
 
Teichman, D. (2005) ﬁSex, Shame, and the 
Law: An Economic Perspective on Megan™s 
Laws,ﬂ Harvard Journal on Legislation 42(1): 335Œ415.  
Tewksbury, R. (2005) ﬁCollateral Conse
quences of Sex Offender Registrationﬂ 
Journal of Contemporary Criminal Justice 21(1): 67Œ81.  
U.S. Census Bureau (2002), Table CO-EST2001
-12-00 - Time Series 
of Intercensal State Population Estimates: April 1, 1990 to Ap
ril 1, 2000, Release Date: April 11, 2002.  
U.S. Census Bureau (2002), Intercensal Estimates of the United States Population by Age 
and Sex, 1990-2000: All Months.  
U.S. Census Bureau (2006), Table 1: Annual Estimates of the Population for the United 
States, Regions, and States and for Puerto 
Rico: April 1, 2000 to July 1, 2006 (NST-EST2006-01), Release Date: December 22, 2006.    32U.S. Census Bureau (2006), County Population by Age, Sex, Race, and Hispanic Origin: 
April 1, 2000 through July 1, 2006.  
U.S. Dept. of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation. NATIONAL INCIDENT-BASED REPORTING SYSTEM, 1995-2005 [Computer files]. Compiled by the U.S. Dept. of Justice, 
Federal Bureau of Investigation. ICPSR ed. A
nn Arbor, MI: Inter-unive
rsity Consortium for Political and Social Research [producer and distributor]   
Vásquez, B.E., Maddan, S., and Walker, J.T.
 (2008) ﬁThe Influence of Sex Offender 
Registration and Notification Laws In the United States: A Time Series Analysis,ﬂ 
Crime & Delinquency 54: 175Œ92.  
Winick, B.J. (1998) ﬁSex Offender Law in
 the 1990s: A Therapeutic Jurisprudence Analysis,ﬂ Psychology, Public Policy, and Law
 4(1): 505Œ70.  
Zevitz, R.G., Farkas, M.A. (2000a) ﬁSex Offender Community Notification: Managing 
High Risk Criminals or Ex
acting Further Vengeance?ﬂ 
Behavioral Sciences and the Law 18: 375Œ91. 
 
 Zevitz, R.G., Farkas, M.A. (2000b) ﬁSex 
Offender Community Notification: Assessing 
the Impact in Wisconsinﬂ National Ins
titute of Justice Report, December 2000 
 RegistrationLaw EffectiveRegistration Law * Registry SizeNotificationLaw EffectiveNotification Law* Registry SizeImpact on Model Parameters (caused by an increase in the column variable)Non-RSOs: future punishment rises (f); likely small effect as costs appear lowRSOs: likelihood of punishment rises (p) due to easier police monitoring and apprehensionNon-RSOs: future punishment rises (f); possibly large effect as costs appear significantRSOs: likelihood of punishment rises (p) due to community policing; costs of crime increase (c) due to victim awareness; relative attractiveness of crime increases (u) due to shame/publicity Predicted Effect on Frequency of Offenses (caused by an increase in the column variable)Prediction: Reduction in frequencyPrediction
: Reduction in frequencyPrediction
: Reduction in frequencyPrediction: Indeterminate effect on frequency Œ more community policing and more victim avoidance versus higher relative attractiveness of crime Predicted Heterogeneity Across Victims No predicted differencesacross different types of offender-victim relationshipsPrediction: Stronger effects for "local" victims; potential displacement of crimes onto "distant" victimsNo predicted differencesacross different types of offender-victim relationships Prediction: Stronger effects on "local" victims due to community policing and victim avoidance; no predicted differences for any relative utility effectPredicted Change in the Probability of Arrest (caused by an increase in the column variable)Prediction: Any change should have the same sign as the effect (if any) on the frequency of offensesPrediction:Reduction in the probability of arrest, but effect should approach zero as crime declines or is displaced onto more distant victimsPrediction: Any change should have the same sign as the effect (if any) on the frequency of offensesPrediction: Indeterminate effect on probability of arrest Œ offsetting effects of community policing (positive, but zero with displacement), victim avoidance (negative, but zero with displacement), and relative attractivness of crime (positive)Note: For details on how these predictions were made, see text of Section 3.Variables of InterestTable 1: Model Predictions for Registration and Notification Coefficients Sex OffensesAssaults
Total Number of Incidents in Sample328,2604,757,118
Rape and Sexual Assault37.9%
n/aForced Fondling (i.e., Sexual Molestation)41.8%
n/aOther Non-Violent Sex Offenses20.3%
n/aPercent of Incidents with Report Date18.9%12.8%

Percent of Incidents Leading to Arrest25.7%37.3%

Average Days to Arrest24.313.7

Prosecution Drops Charges7.1%4.8%
Victim Refuses to Cooperate5.1%6.6%
Offender-Victim RelationshipImmediate Family (e.g., spouse, child, sibling)11.5%24.9%

Extended Family (e.g., grandparent, in-laws)9.3%3.7%

Stepfamily4.7%1.3%
Friend7.0%2.8%
Significant Other8.0%17.6%
Acquaintance31.0%23.7%

Neighbor2.4%1.8%
Otherwise Known9.6%9.3%

Stranger8.4%9.7%
Relationship Unknown11.8%10.2%

Missing Relationship Information4.3%4.5%
Victim CharacteristicsFemale86.5%58.4%

White77.6%68.2%

Black17.9%28.3%
Aged 0-48.7%0.7%

Aged 5-914.8%1.6%

Aged 10-1427.1%6.9%

Aged 15-1923.8%15.3%

Aged 20-2913.1%30.2%

Aged 30-397.2%24.0%

Aged 40-493.6%14.5%

Aged 50-651.1%5.6%

Aged 65+0.5%1.3%
Offender CharacteristicsMale95.9%76.8%

White69.0%61.5%

Black24.1%33.9%
Aged 0-92.3%0.5%

Aged 10-1411.2%6.2%

Aged 15-1920.1%15.9%

Aged 20-2925.5%31.3%

Aged 30-3920.5%25.4%

Aged 40-4912.0%14.5%

Aged 50-656.5%5.1%

Aged 65+1.9%0.9%
Notes: Sample includes all sex offenses and assaults reported in the 15 NIBRS states that we include in our analysis.  Relationships total to more than 100% in this table because some incidents involved more 
than one relationship.Table 2: Summary Statistics on Reported Crime Incidents Sex Offenses   per 10,000 Sex Offenses   per 10,000 ln (Sex Offenses per 10,000)ln (Sex Offenses per 10,000)(1)(2)(3)(4)
Registry Effective0.3000.2470.0230.020
(0.442)(0.487)(0.033)(0.035)
[.51][.62][.50][.58]
-0.078-0.096-0.006-0.007
(0.033)(0.04)(0.002)(0.003)
[.04][.04][.04][.03]
Notification-1.116-1.050-0.075-0.072
(0.354)(0.364)(0.027)(0.027)
[.01][.02][.02][.02]
0.0820.0870.0060.006
(0.028)(0.031)(0.002)(0.002)
[.01][.02][.02][.02]
Assault/Crime ControlsMean Offense Frequency    (Standard Deviation)
Mean Registry Size
    (Standard Deviation)Observations210,209210,209210,209210,209
R-squared0.350.360.680.68
Notes: The dependent variable is annualized incidents per 10,000 persons in columns (1)-(2).  In columns (3)-(4), the dependent variable is the natural log of annualized incidents plus one per 10,000 
persons.  The unit of observation is a reporting agency (ORI) by month cell.  Registry size is measured 
in offenders per 10,000 persons (mean registry size is reported).  The notification laws represent "full" 
access by the public to information on offenders; for more details see the text in Section 5.  Registry 
size is empirically estimated from registry data, as explained in the Data Appendix.  All regressions 
control for county income and demographics, ORI fixed effects, year fixed effects, and month fixed 
effects.  Columns, as indicated, also control for rates of assault and other crime.  Regressions are 
weighted by the covered population in each ORI.  Standard errors (in parentheses) are estimated via 
bootstrapping.  P-values shown in brackets.Registry Effective *                 Registry SizeNotification *                          Registry Size Table 3: Effects of Registration and Notification on Sex Offense Frequency9.17(9.70)15.99(11.15) All Victims"Close" Victims"Near" Victims"Stranger" Victims(1)(2)(3)(4)
Registry Effective0.2470.0380.130-0.126
(0.487)(0.167)(0.207)(0.169)
[.62][.82][.54][.48]
-0.096-0.032-0.0310.006
(0.04)(0.02)(0.017)(0.01)
[.04][.15][.10][.57]
Notification-1.050-0.339-0.297-0.244
(0.364)(0.099)(0.162)(0.126)
[.02][.01][.10][.08]
0.0870.0310.0260.014
(0.031)(0.013)(0.014)(0.007)
[.02][.04][.09][.06]
Mean Offense Frequency9.173.463.781.83
    (Standard Deviation)(9.70)(5.58)(5.67)(3.47)
Mean Registry Size15.9915.9915.9915.99

    (Standard Deviation)(11.15)(11.15)(11.15)(11.15)
Observations210,209210,209210,209210,209
R-squared0.360.200.210.29
Table 4: Effects of Registration and Notification on Sex OffenseFrequency and Relationship MixRegistry Effective *                 Registry SizeNotification *                           Registry Size Note: The unit of measurement for the dependent variables is annualized incidents per 10,000 persons, and the unit of observation is a reporting agency (ORI) by month cell.  Registry size is measured in offenders 
per 10,000 persons.  The notification laws represent "full" access by the public to information on offenders; 
for more details see the text in Section 5.  Registry size is empirically estimated from registry data, as 
explained in the Data Appendix.  The regressions control for rates of assault and other crime, county 
income and demographics, ORI fixed effects, year fixed effects, and month fixed effects, as described in the 
text.  In columns (2) to (4), the assault and other crime variables are specific to incidents with the same 
offender-victim relationship as the dependent variable.  Regressions are weighted by the covered population 
in each ORI.  Standard errors (in parentheses) are estimated via bootstrapping.  P-values shown in brackets. Arrest MadeTime to Arrest   (in days)Victim Refuses to CooperateProsecution Drops Charges(1)(2)(3)(4)
Registry Effective-0.0013-1.63110.01940.0512
(0.0378)(1.5563)(0.0126)(0.0185)
[.97][.32][.16][.02]
-0.00080.0240-0.0010-0.0039
(0.005)(0.1113)(0.001)(0.002)
[.88][.83][.34][.08]
Notification-0.01540.4400-0.01660.0020
(0.0381)(2.3799)(0.0138)(0.0221)
[.70][.86][.26][.93]
0.0030-0.04720.00180.0033
(0.0032)(0.1124)(0.0011)(0.0019)
[.36][.68][.12][.10]
Mean of Dependent Variable0.2315.810.070.10
     (Standard Deviation)(23.89)Observations287,78965,702287,789287,789
R-squared0.100.120.100.14
Notes: The unit of observation is a reported sex offense.  The dependent variables in columns (1), (3), and (4) are zero-one indicators, respectively, for whether an arrest was made in connection with a report, for whether the 
report was cleared because the prosecution declined to pursue the case, and for whether it was cleared because the 
victim did not cooperate.  In column (2), the sample is restricted to reported sex offenses that lead to an arrest, and 
the dependent variable is the number of days from the report/occurrence of an incident until an arrest was made.  
The regression includes controls for victim and offender characteristics, victim-offender relationship, type of sex 
offense, ORI fixed effects, year fixed effects, and month fixed effects, as described in the text.  Standard errors (in 
parentheses) are calculated via bootstrapping.  P-values are given in brackets.Registry Effective *Registry SizeNotification *Registry Size Table 5: Effects of Registration and Notification on Arrest Outcomes Sex Offenses    per 10,000 Sex Offenses    per 10,000 Sex Offenses    per 10,000 ln (Sex Offenses per 10,000)ln (Sex Offenses per 10,000)ln (Sex Offenses per 10,000)(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)
Registry Effective0.3000.247-0.2100.0230.020-0.011
(0.442)(0.487)(0.285)(0.033)(0.035)(0.02)
[.51][.62][.48][.50][.58][.59]
-0.078-0.096-0.060-0.006-0.007-0.004
(0.033)(0.04)(0.036)(0.002)(0.003)(0.002)
[.04][.04][.13][.04][.03][.06]
Notification-1.116-1.050-0.430-0.075-0.072-0.024
(0.354)(0.364)(0.283)(0.027)(0.027)(0.023)
[.01][.02][.16][.02][.02][.33]
0.0820.0870.0550.0060.0060.004
(0.028)(0.031)(0.019)(0.002)(0.002)(0.001)
[.01][.02][.02][.02][.02][.02]
Assault/Crime Controls
State Linear TrendsMean Offense Frequency    (Standard Deviation)
Mean Registry Size
    (Standard Deviation)Observations210,209210,209210,209210,209210,209210,209
R-squared0.350.360.360.680.680.68
(11.15)Notes: The dependent variable is annualized incidents per 10,000 persons in columns (1)-(3).  In columns (4)-(6), the dependent variable is the natural log of annualized incidents plus one per 10,000 persons.  The unit of observation is a 
reporting agency (ORI) by month cell.  Registry size is measured in offenders per 10,000 persons (mean registry size is 
reported).  The notification laws represent "full" access by the public to information on offenders; for more details see the 
text in Section 5.  Registry size is empirically estimated from registry data, as explained in the Data Appendix.  All 
regressions control for county income and demographics, ORI fixed effects, year fixed effects, and month fixed effects.  
Columns, as indicated, also control for rates of assault and other crime and state-specific linear trends.  Regressions are 
weighted by the covered population in each ORI.  Standard errors (in parentheses) are estimated via bootstrapping.  P-
values shown in brackets.Registry Effective *           Registry SizeNotification *                        Registry Size Table 6: Robustness of Registration and Notification Effectson Sex Offense Frequency9.1715.99(9.70) (1)         reg-eff-date(2)         pubacc- eff  (3)       pubacc-disc(4)       pubacc-mand(5)      pubacc-writreq(6)       pubacc-specific(7)       internet-live(8)       comm-eff-date(9)       comm-disc(10)       comm-mand(11)       comm- opt-in(12)       comm-victim(13)       comm-neighbor(14)       comm-mediaColorado07/01/199106/05/1995
06/05/1995 a07/01/1999N/AN/A07/30/200112/01/1999
12/1/1999 b05/30/2006N/AN/A12/01/1999N/A
Connecticut01/01/199510/1/1998 cN/A10/1/1998cN/AN/A
1/1/1999c10/01/199510/01/1995 cN/AN/AN/A
10/01/1995 cN/AIdaho07/01/199307/01/1993N/A07/01/1993
07/01/1993 d07/01/1993 e07/01/200107/01/2003N/A07/01/2003N/AN/AN/A07/01/2003
Iowa07/01/199507/01/1995N/A07/01/199507/01/1995
070/1/1995 e03/16/200007/01/199807/01/1998N/AN/AN/A07/01/1998N/A
Kentucky01/01/1995N/AN/AN/AN/AN/A04/11/2000
01/01/1999 f07/12/200601/01/1999 g01/01/1999 g01/01/1999 g01/01/1999 f01/01/1999 gMassachusetts10/01/199610/01/1996N/A10/01/199610/01/1996N/A08/03/200409/10/199909/10/1999N/AN/AN/A09/10/1999N/A
Michigan10/01/199504/01/1997N/A04/01/1997N/AN/A02/01/199901/01/2007N/AN/A01/01/2007N/AN/AN/A
Nebraska01/01/1997N/AN/AN/AN/AN/A03/30/200007/15/1998
7/15/1998  (lower risk)7/15/1998    (high risk)N/AN/A07/15/199807/15/1998
North Dakota07/01/199308/01/1995N/A08/01/1995N/AN/A11/06/200108/01/1995
08/01/1995 h08/01/1997N/A08/01/200108/01/1995N/A
Ohio07/01/199707/01/1997N/A07/01/1997N/AN/A12/18/200307/01/1997N/A07/01/1997
07/01/1997  (victims only)07/01/1997    (if opt-in)07/01/1997N/A
South Carolina07/01/199406/18/1996N/A06/18/199606/18/199606/18/199611/22/199906/18/1996
6/18/1996 i6/30/1999 (newspapers)N/AN/A06/18/199606/30/1999
Texas09/01/199109/01/1995N/A09/01/1995
09/01/1995 jN/A01/11/199909/01/1995
09/01/2005 (newspapers)09/01/1995 kN/AN/A09/01/1999
09/01/1995 lUtah03/30/198304/29/1996
03/15/1996 e 07/01/199803/15/1996 e03/15/1996 e07/01/1998N/AN/AN/AN/AN/AN/AN/A
Vermont09/01/199605/29/2000N/A05/29/2000N/AN/A10/01/200409/01/199605/26/2006N/A
09/01/1996 (victim only)09/01/1996     (if opt-in)05/26/2006N/A
Virginia07/01/199407/01/1998N/A07/01/199807/01/199807/01/199801/01/199907/01/2006N/AN/A07/01/2006N/AN/AN/A
Notes:a:repealed07/1/1999;b:repealed05/30/2006;c:enjoined05/17/2001until05/03/2003;d:repealed07/01/2001;e:repealed07/01/1998;f:
repealed04/11/2001,reeffective07/12/2006;g:repealed04/11/2001;h:repealed08/01/1997;i:exceptfor
newspapers as of 06/30/1999; j: repealed 09/01/1997; k: repealed 09/01/2005 for newspapers; l: discretionary after 09/01/2005. Columns (1)-(7): (1) the effective date of the first registration law; (2) the effective date of the first public access law of any kind; (3) the date that a discretionary public access law, if applicable, became effective; (4) the date that mandatory public access law, if applicable, became effective; (5) the date on which a "written request" requirement, if applicable, became effective; (6) the date on which "specific person request only" restriction, if applicable, became effective; (7) the date on which public access was moved onto the internet, thereby removing all previous access restrictions.Columns (8)-(14): (8) the effective date the first active community notification provision; (9) the date the notification law, if discretionary, became effective; (10) the date the notification law, if mandatory, became effective; (11) the date that a notification law that required that people "opt-in" to the notification system, if applicable, became effective; (12) the date that notification law that notified former victims, if applicable, became effective; (13) the date that a notification law that informed neighbors specifically, either by a written notice or by a personal visit, became effective, if applicable; (14) the date that a notification law that used the media to deliver any notification, if applicable, became effective.Appendix Table 1: Evolution of Registration and Notification Laws, by State 15 states(1991 start)s.d.13 states(1991 start)s.d.15 states (1995 start)s.d.ORI Population18,75038,57017,16829,27719,05239,503
Number of Offenses (annualized, per 10,000 people)Total Sex Offenses9.179.709.209.899.099.67

Rape Offenses4.716.294.696.454.656.25

Forced Fondling Offenses3.855.883.926.163.835.85

Assaults138.3116.0135.7117.3136.6114.9

Other Crimes 514.6338.3504.7337.7509.6333.1
Registration and Notification LawsRegistration Effective0.9250.260.9010.300.9840.13
Full Notification Effective0.7700.420.6960.460.8320.37
Full Public Access Effective0.5600.500.4890.500.6050.49

Full Internet Access Effective0.5630.500.5140.500.6090.49

Full Active Community Notification Effective0.2020.400.1300.340.2180.41

Registry Size (estimated, incl. states with no registry)14.7911.5214.6611.7115.8711.22
ORI-Level DemographicsPer-Capita Personal Income (in thousands)28.9615.4027.2916.5929.8515.65

Unemployment Rate0.0480.0190.0470.0200.0470.018

Male (ages 1-14)0.2190.0260.2200.0270.2180.025

Male (ages 15-29)0.2180.0430.2180.0440.2170.042

Male (ages 30-44)0.2320.0250.2310.0240.2310.025

Male (ages 45-64)0.2280.0310.2260.0320.2310.030

Male (ages 65+)0.1040.0290.1050.0290.1040.028

Female (ages 1-14)0.2010.0240.2020.0250.2000.024

Female (ages 15-29)0.2020.0410.2030.0430.2010.041

Female  (ages 30-44)0.2250.0240.2240.0240.2250.025

Female  (ages 45-64)0.2290.0300.2270.0310.2320.028

Female  (ages 65+)0.1420.0370.1440.0370.1420.037

Black0.1220.1430.1190.1470.1180.140

White0.7980.1490.8150.1440.7980.148

Hispanic0.0530.0640.0440.0490.0560.065
Number of ORI-Level Observations210,209
Appendix Table 2: Summary Statistics on ORI-Level SamplesNotes: Samples are identical to the data used in the regression analyses reported in Tables 3, 4, and 6.  Data are weighted by NIBRS covered population for number of offenses, registration and notification laws, and ORI-level demographics.  Data are aggregated from incident level to ORI-month level.  Mean registry size estimate is calculated over all ORI-months, including those months where no law was in place, in which registry size is always zero.173,706190,571
 Sex Crimes per 10,000 Sex Crimes per 10,000 Sex Crimes per 10,000 ln (Sex Crimes per 10,000)ln (Sex Crimes per 10,000)ln (Sex Crimes per 10,000)(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)
Registry Effective0.2950.215-0.2470.0270.023-0.010
(0.422)(0.467)(0.298)(0.032)(0.034)(0.024)
[.50][.66][.43][.41][.51][.69]
-0.071-0.088-0.058-0.005-0.006-0.004
(0.035)(0.043)(0.034)(0.002)(0.003)(0.002)
[.07][.07][.12][.04][.04][.05]
Notification-1.100-1.047-0.460-0.074-0.071-0.026
(0.362)(0.349)(0.215)(0.025)(0.024)(0.017)
[.01][.01][.06][.01][.01][.15]
0.0840.0880.0600.0060.0060.004
(0.028)(0.031)(0.019)(0.002)(0.002)(0.001)
[.01][.02][.01][.02][.02][.01]
Assault/Crime Controls
State Linear TrendsMean Crime Frequency    (Standard Deviation)
Mean Registry Size
    (Standard Deviation)Observations173,706173,706173,706173,706173,706173,706
R-squared0.300.310.310.610.620.62
Appendix Table 3: Effects of Registration and Notificationon Sex Offense Frequency(13 State Sample)9.20(9.89)16.27(11.22)Notes: The dependent variable is annualized incidents per 10,000 persons in columns (1)-(3) and is the natural log of this value in columns (4)-(6).  The unit of observation is a reporting agency (ORI) by month cell.  Registry size is 
measured in offenders per 10,000 persons (mean registry size is reported).  The notification laws represent "full" 
access by the public to information on offenders; for more details see the text in Section 5.  Registry size is 
empirically estimated from registry data, as explained in the Data Appendix.  All regressions control for county 
income and demographics, ORI fixed effects, year fixed effects, and month fixed effects.  Columns, as indicated, 
also control for rates of assault and other crime and state-specific linear trends.  Regressions are weighted by the 
covered population in each ORI.  Standard errors (in parentheses) are estimated via bootstrapping.  P-values shown 
in brackets.Registry Effective * Registry SizeNotification *            Registry Size  Figure 1a: Registration and Notification Laws in NIBRS States  
Virginia
Vermont
Utah
Texas
South Carolina
Ohio
North Dakota
Nebraska
Michigan
Massachusetts
Kentucky
Iowa
Idaho
Connecticut
Colorado
199019952000
2005
RegistrationPublic AccessInternet
Community NotificationYear Joined NIBRS
 Note: Depicted are dates when registration, public access, 
and community notification laws are effective, and when 
an internet site goes live.  These incl
ude all laws, regardless of special rest
rictions.  Utah™s registration law was 
effective in 1983.  For details see Appendix Table 1. 
 Figure 1b: Registration and ﬁFullﬂ Notification Laws in NIBRS States  
Virginia
Vermont
Utah
Texas
South Carolina
Ohio
North Dakota
Nebraska
Michigan
Massachusetts
Kentucky
Iowa
Idaho
Connecticut
Colorado
19901995200
0200
5RegistrationPublic AccessInternet
Community NotificationYear Joined NIBRS
 Note: Depicted are dates when ﬁfullﬂ versions regist
ration, public access, and community notification laws are 
effective, and when a complete internet registry site goes
 live.  Utah™s registration la
w was effective in 1983.  For 
details see Appendix Table 1 a
nd the text in Section 5. 
   
 
 Appendix Figure 1:  Observations of Registry Size and Empirical Estimates  
 051002402460123051005100204001230.510102005100204060024605101501231990
1996
2002
2008
1990
1996
2002
2008
1990
1996
2002
2008
COCTIAIDKYMAMINBNDOHSCTXUTVAVTObservation of Registry SizeEmpirical Estimate
Offenders on Registry, in Thousands
 Notes:  This figure depicts our empirically 
estimated registry sizes for the NIBRS states 
in our sample.  To calculate these registry sizes, we ran a least squares regression of 
registry size on quadratic function of date, allowing for state specific intercepts and 

slopes and using all data points available for each state.  We then use the predicted values 
from this regression as measures of the state re
gistry size for each month.  See the Data 
Appendix for more details. 
  i Data Appendix 
1.  Coding Registration and Notification Laws To build our database of registration and notification laws, we 
constructed a detailed legal timeline for each state, relying principally 
on paper legislative sources, legal databases 
containing statutes and judicial opinions, news releases and stories, and conversations and email 
communications with state employees.  We catal
ogued enactment dates, effective dates, and 
compliance dates for each legal change, and veri
fied, where possible, that such changes took place in reality, and not just on paper.  We cr
oss-checked our research with other sources 
compiling sex offender laws and resolved all conflic
ts.  Finally, we recorded the precise content 
of these legal changes, which is particularly
 necessary with sex offender notification laws 
because they differ across st
ates on various dimensions. 
 
As noted in Section 2, states invariably began regulating sex offenders with registration statues that required all sex offender information be kept confidential.  Over time, however, state 
laws evolved toward making more of this info
rmation public.  Most states began by providing public access to their registration databases, but va
ried in the restrictions
 they placed on access to 
this information.  Some states (e.g., Idaho) only 
allowed the public to ma
ke information requests 
in writing or about specific suspected persons.  Others made information available about all sex 
offenders in the area and allowed them to be openly inspected at police departments or other 
government agencies (e.g., Michigan).  Both appr
oaches to public access assume that potential 
victims or witnesses will make use of these opport
unities despite their nontrivial travel and time 
costs.  By the end of our sample period, all st
ates maintained a web registry, and many had 
enacted ﬁactiveﬂ comm
unity notification. 
 2.  NIBRS and Demographic Data 
 Many of the advantages and disadvantages of NIBRS data are described in Section 4, but  we met additional challenges and ma
de additional choices in constructing our data for analysis.  One limitation of NIBRS is that the first year 
for which NIBRS data are available (from the 
ICPSR) is 1995.  To address this problem, we reque
sted additional data, available for some states 
back to 1991, from the FBI, and have incorporated
 that data into our analysis.  Excluding data from 1991 through 1994 does not affect our results. 
 Another complexity, discussed briefly in 
Section 4, is that participation of law enforcement agencies can vary within a state and over time.  
Agencies are identified in NIBRS by an ﬁOriginating Agency Identifierﬂ (ORI), and, within each state, the number of reporting ORIs increases dramatically over time.  For example, the number 
of reporting ORIs from Nebraska more than qu
intupled between 1998 (its first reporting year) and 2005.  Consequently, we include ORI fixed effects in our regressions.   ii  In building our offense variables (sex offe
nse, assault, or ﬁotherﬂ crime) and our 
relationship groups (ﬁclose,ﬂ ﬁnear,ﬂ and ﬁstrangerﬂ), we had to deal with the non-trivial number 
of sex offenses with multiple victims (8 percent) or multiple offenders (8 percent).  The 

indicators we create for the relationship between
 the offender and the victim include all victim 
relationships.  For example, if there were two 
victims, a family member and a friend of the 
offender, both the family member and friend indicat
ors are set equal to one.  When we examine 
arrests, we include victim and offender characteris
tics as controls.  For incidents with multiple 
victims or multiple offenders we record the characteristics of the first victim and first offender 

listed.  These non-relationship variables are only used in our analysis of arrests.  
 In addition to the information on victims, 
offenders, and arrestees from NIBRS, we use 
annual, county-level demographic data from the 
U.S. census on the fraction of the population in 18 age categories and five ethnicities as well as annual county-level data on income per capita, 
poverty rates, and unemployment rates as controls
 in our regressions.  While some ORIs are 
smaller than counties, we believ
e these are the best annual data available to control for any demographic shifts that may have occurred in 
ORIs over our sample period.  Two percent of 
ORIs are located in multiple counties.  We assi
gn to these ORIs a weighted average of county characteristics based on the population of the ORI in each county.    3.  Addressing Reporting Errors in NIBRS   We use a multi-faceted approach to handl
e reporting errors in the NIBRS data we 
employ.  First, we use the indica
tors provided in NIBRS for whet
her an ORI reported crime in a 
given month.  Among ORIs reporting crime duri
ng any month of each year, the fraction 
reporting for all twelve months ranged from 68 percen
t in 1995 to 89 percent in 2004.  We limit 
our analysis to crimes that took place duri
ng months when the ORI reported crime in the 
previous month, the current month, and the next four
 months.  This restriction causes us to drop 
less than 5 percent of sex offenses that occurred between February 1991 and August 2005, and all offenses occurring outside this period. 
 
 Despite this initial cleaning of the data, 
we found a number of in
stances of apparent underreporting of crimes in NIBRS.  For exampl
e, an agency might report about 500 crimes 
every month for many months, then 
report few or no crimes for one month, and then return to the 
previous pattern of 500 crimes.  We also obs
erve agencies that, according to the NIBRS 
indicators, started reporting officially on a given month, but do not start reporting crime until 
several months later.  To addr
ess these concerns, we implement 
an algorithm to identify these 
kinds of misreporting.  First, we
 take all agency-period cells with a given number of crimes 
reported, then we calculate the variance of the 
number of crimes reported in periods a given 
length of time from the current 
period, and then we flag all observations that are outliers given  iii this variance (i.e., the observation has very small chan
ce of occurring, assuming reports are 
normally distributed with given variance).  We re
peat this process for reports up to six periods away and flag observations twice: first with one
 in one million chances and second with one in 
one hundred thousand chances.  The two-stage process is helpful because it allows us to 

recalculate the variance after eliminating very distant outliers. 
 We also flag all adjacent months, 
to guard against the possibility that underreporting in one month leads to over-reporting in 
others. 
 4.  Registry Size Estimates 
  Our data on historical regist
ry sizes come from various so
urces.  Two reports from the 
National Institute of Justice pr
ovide us with states™ registry
 sizes at the end of 1998 and 2001 
(Bureau of Justice Statistics (2002b)).  In addition, we have been able to gather documents 
posted on-line by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children that provide counts of offenders registered in each state at several points in time from 2003 through 2007.  The exact 
dates when the information was gathered varied by st
ate, but, in general, this gives us a snapshot of registry sizes in 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2007.  We also add data from news
 articles and state government reports.  We also know that some states
 did not apply their laws retroactively, and so we are able to include a zero at
 the start of their registries. 
 
 Thus, although we have collected data on th
e number of registered offenders in each state, there are some years for which we do not ha
ve this information.  In order to estimate the 
historical size of the registries for the NIBRS states at the state level,
 we run a least squares regression of registry size on quadratic function of date, allowing 
for state specific intercepts and 
slopes and using all data points available for each st
ate.  We then use the predicted values from 
this regression as measures of the state regi
stry size for each month.  The results of these 
regressions are depicted
 in Appendix Figure 1.  
 We combine this state-level informati
on on registry size with information on all 
registered offenders nationwide as of August, 2007.  This data set was compiled by a private company (www.familywatchdog.com) that provides 
sex offender information to the public, and was given to us for research purposes.  This data allows us to calculate th
e number of registered 
sex offenders by county within each NIBRS state.  We then allocate sex offenders to each county 
under the assumption that the fraction of offenders
 by county today is reflective of the fractions by county in past years. 
 5.  Bootstrap Method for Standard Error Estimates 
 In order to estimate unbiased standard erro
rs in the presence of a small number of 
clusters, we follow Camer
on et al. (2007) and employ a bootstrapping methodology. 
 iv Specifically, we repeat each regression in our analysis 500 time
s and calculate our standard errors using the variance of the resulting estimates.  Let 
i be the estimated vector of coefficients 
from repetition 
i.  Our variance estimate is 2*‹, where NiiN2112* , N = 100  In the simulations carried out by Cameron et 
al. (2007), this technique, which they term ﬁpaired bootstrap-se,ﬂ does not perform as well as other techniques, such as ﬁwild bootstrap,ﬂ in the sense that it finds a placebo to have a statistically significant relationship with the dependent 
variable at the 0.05 level in around 10 percent of their simulations.  However, it is not clear from 
their work whether this difference is reflectiv
e of a general result that would apply to our situation, i.e., an unbalanced panel with groups of differing size and independent variables that have different variances across groups.  We find the standard e
rrors from a wild bootstrap are 
smaller than those from the paired bootstrap, a
nd we therefore use the paired bootstrap estimates. 
 
 In addition to sampling our states (with repl
acement) in each repetition, we take account 
of any additional bias due to estimated regressors by using values
 for registry size calculated 
from randomly drawn values from the distribution of
 our estimator in the ﬁfirst stageﬂ where we 
estimate registry size.  Specificall
y, we take the estimator of the
 K parameters from the first stage  
(0) and use the Cholesky decompos
ition of the variance-covariance matrix (V) to draw a new 
vector (i) where 
).1,0(...~,]...[,1021NdiirrrRRViKi We then use this vector of coefficients to re-estimate registry size for each regression. 
   
  
 