Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 David Mikkelson       Published 15 April 2015                          				smg.ads.load( 'post-featured-1' ); 			    Claim  A cell phone virus is circulating disguised as a video called the 'Dance of the Pope.'
 Rating         False About this rating        Do you rely on Snopes reporting?
 Become a member today.
 smg.ads.load( 'rating-1' ); 			    Origin  In early April 2015, several rumors warning mobile phone users of a malware attachment known as the Dance of the Pope (later Dance of the Hillary) began to circulate.
 Many versions claimed the Dance of the Pope was an infected attachment (often a GIF or video), and that users who opened the file using services such as BlackBerry Messenger or WhatsApp risked the loss of all their cell phone data:  URGENT: Tell all contacts from your list not to accept a video called the dance of the Pope.
 It is a virus that formats your mobile.
 Beware it is very dangerous.
 They announced it today on the radio.
 Pass on to as many as you can.
 It was announced on the radio in USA.
 Copy n paste  Hello All, i received this URGENT warning- To NOT accept a video called the dance of the Pope.
 It is a virus that formats your mobile.
 Beware is very dangerous.
 You have fun with your list already, people open it thinking that it is a joke.
 They are spreading it today on the radio.
 Pass it on to those who can  A common thread in the rumors was its source: most claimed the Dance of the Pope virus was reported on the radio.
 Although most mentioned that the virus was discussed on the radio, none said that the posters themselves had heard it.
 Folks spreading the rumor believed others had heard about the virus on the radio; but none of the major versions involved the person spreading the rumor having personally listened to a news report.
 We found no information suggesting the Dance of the Pope virus warning was anything but a rumor.
 No radio stations were linked to the purported announcement; no news outlets reported the story; none of the antivirus companies had heard of it; and, most tellingly, no one appeared to have experienced the virus on his own device.
 If the virus were real, many users would have encountered and unwittingly opened the attachment despite the circulating warning by now.
 Snopes.com   Since 1994     Help Supercharge Snopes For 2020  				We have big plans.
 We need your help.
 Become a member!
 Published 15 April 2015   By   David Mikkelson     Filed Under   Virus Hoaxes &amp; Realities               				smg.ads.load( 'post-footer-1' ); 			    Editors' Picks         No, Trump Did Not Call for Biden’s Assassination    															29 October 2020													  							Fact Check						   Critics of the president latched onto his use of the phrase "Joe's shot," in a speech in October 2020.
 What did he actually say?
 Is America Really ‘Rounding the Turn’ on COVID-19?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   We fact-checked the claims of those who sought to downplay the seriousness of the pandemic in the weeks prior to the 2020 presidential election.
 Did Searches for “Change My Vote” Spike After Final Prez Debate or Hunter Biden Controversy?
 30 October 2020													  							News						   Trendception: A master class in the use of spurious data to make bogus and self-referential political talking points unsupported by empirical evidence.
 Did US Gas Prices Average $5 Per Gallon Under Obama and Biden?
 30 October 2020													  							Fact Check						   Viral images of Exxon gas station signs were shared in October 2020, ahead of Election Day.
 Will There Be a Full ‘Blue’ Moon on Halloween 2020?
 30 October 2020													  							Fact Check						   Readers beware.
 The conditions are perfect this year for a werewolf sighting.
 Did a Fox 2 Detroit Report Expose Voter Fraud in the 2020 Election?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   An image graphic detailing an assortment of potential election crimes was shared on social media the day after the 2020 presidential election.
 Was the 2020 U.S. Presidential Election Winner Announced Yet?
 7 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   For days, the world waited to see who American voters want to serve as the 46th president of the United States — Donald Trump or Joe Biden.
 Were Trump Ballots Marked with Sharpies Disqualified in Arizona?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Arizona was one of several states apparently won by Joe Biden in 2020 that were targeted by election-related conspiracy theories.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			     Snopes.com needs your help.Become a member today.
 Learn How          				smg.ads.load( 'side-3' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 See the whole collection.
 Support Us       					You rely on Snopes, and we rely on you.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
