2
 
 
Census definitions require a person to be counted
 
as an inhabitant of his/her usual place 
of residence, which is generally construed to mean the place where he/she lives and 

residence.  A household is the person or 
group of people occupying a housing unit; by 
definition, the number of occupied housing units is the same as the number of 
households.  Households refer solely to permanent residents and a housing unit is 
classified as vacant even when it is continuously o
ccupied, 
if 
all the occupants are 
temporary residents staying only for a few days, weeks, or months.  
 
 
BEBR uses three different data sources to estimate the number of households in Florida.  
The first is residential building permits, as collected and dis
tributed by
 
the U.S. 
Department of Commerce.  The housing inventory in 201
5
 
for a city or county that issues 
building permits can be estimated by adding permits issued since 2010 to the units 
counted in the 2010 census and subtracting units lost to destruction, demolition, or 
conversion to other uses.  The time lag between the is
suance of a permit and the 
completion of a unit is assumed to be three months for single
-
family units and fifteen 
months for multifamily units.  Building permits are not issued for mobile homes, but 
proxies can be derived from records of shipments to mobil
e home dealers in Florida.  
Creating a housing inventory for an entire county requires complete permit data for every 
permitting agency within the county.  Although such data are not always available, 
coverage is sufficient in most Florida cities and count
ies to provide useful information. 
 
 
There are no readily available data sources providing comprehensive up
-
to
-
date 
information on occupancy rates.  Accurate information can be obtained through special 
censuses or large sample surveys, but in most instance
s these methods are too expensive 
to be feasible.  A common solution is to use the occupancy rates reported in the most 
recent census.  This is the procedure we follow in most places, but in some places we 
make adjustments to account for factors reflecting
 
changes in occupancy rates over time 
(e.g., changes in the seasonal population).
 
 
The product of the inventory figure and the occupancy rate provides an estimate of the 
number of households.  There are several potential problems with this estimate.  Time 
lags between the issuance of permits and the completion of units may vary from place to 
place and from year to year.  The proportion of permits resulting in completed units is 
usually unknown.  Data on demolitions and conversions are incomplete and data on
 
mobile homes must be estimated indirectly.  Reliable estimates of changes in occupancy 
rates are generally unavailable.  Certificate
-
of
-
occupancy data can eliminate problems 
related to completion rates and time lags but not those related to occupancy rate
s, 
demolitions, and conversions.  Although these problems limit the usefulness of the data 
in some places, building permit data often provide reasonably accurate estimates of 
households.
 
 
Our second data source
 
is active residential electric customers.  We
 
collect these data 

constructing a ratio of households to active residential electric customers using data from 
the most recent census year (e.g., 2010) and multiplying
 
that ratio times the number of 
 3
 
 
active residential customers in some later year (e.g., 201
5
).  This procedure assumes that 
no changes have occurred in electric company bookkeeping practices or in the proportion 
of customers who are permanent residents.  Al
though changes do occur, they are 
generally fairly small.  In some places we adjust the household/electric customer ratio to 
account for likely changes in the proportion of housing units occupied by permanent 
residents.  Previous research on BEBR populatio
n estimates has shown that household 
estimates based on electric customer data are

on average

more accurate than those 
based on building permit data.  
 
 
We will 
continue
 
to
 
use 
a different type 
of 
electric customer data this year
; namely, data 
in which lim
ited use customers 
are
 
excluded
. 
Limited use customers are those us
ing
 
less 
than a specified amount of electricity during certain months of the year. We believe these 
customers represent seasonal or other part
-
time residents and excluding them may give a 
m
ore accurate measure of permanent residents. These data are not available for all areas 
of the state
,
 
but we will
 
consider
 
us
ing
 
them in conjunction with other data sources in 
places in which the data are available and appear to be reliable.
 
 
We 
use
 
a thir
d data source
 
for estimates at the county level:
 
the number of homestead 
exemptions reported by the Florida Department of Revenue.  Households can be 
estimated by constructing a ratio of households to exemptions using data from the most 
recent census year 
(e.g., 2010) and multiplying that ratio times the number of exemptions 
in some later year (e.g., 201
5
).
 
 
An important advantage of these data is that they cover 
only housing units occupied by permanent residents, thereby excluding the impact of 
seasonal an
d other non
-
permanent residents.  The primary disadvantage is that the data do 
not include households occupied by renters or other non
-
homeowners.  
H
omestead 
exemption data 
are not available 
at the 
sub
county level.
 
 
Building permit
, electric customer
, and 
homestead exemption data all provide useful 
information regarding changes in households.  We use our professional judgment to 
decide which data source(s) to use in each specific county and subcounty area.  In many 
instances, we use averages of estimates fr
om two or even all three data sources.  
 
 
Persons per Household
 
 
The second component of the housing unit method is the average number of persons per 

then leveled off, r
emaining constant between 1990 and 2000 before rising to 2.48 in 
2010.  There is a substantial amount of variation among local areas
 
in Florida, with 
values in 2010 ranging from 2.1 to 3.1 for counties and from less than 1.5 to more than 
4.0 for subcounty 
areas.  PPH values have risen over time in some cities and counties and 
declined in others.  
 
 
For each county and subcounty area, we base our PPH estimates on the local PPH value 
in the most recent census (e.g., 2010), the state
-
level change in PPH since 
that census (as 
measured by the American Community Survey), and the local change in the mix of 
single
-
family, multifamily, and mobile home units since that census.  
For this year, we 
 4
 
 
will also be
 
investigating whether 
the American Community Survey can prov
ide 
guidance regarding changes in PPH at the county level.  
In some instances, we use 
indirect indicators of changes in PPH to adjust the estimates (e.g., changes in racial 
composition).  
Again, we use our professional judgment to decide which data sources
 
and 
techniques to use in each county and subcounty area.  
 
 
Group 
Q
uarters 
P
opulation
 
 
The household population is calculated as the product of households and PPH.  To obtain 
an estimate of the total population, we must add an estimate of the group quarte
rs 
population.  In most places, we estimate the group quarters population by assuming that it 
accounts for the same proportion of total population in 201
5
 
as it did in 2010.  For 
example, if the group quarters population accounted for 2% of the total popul
ation in 
2010, we assume that it accounted for 2% in 201
5
.  In places where the group quarters 
population represents a substantial proportion of the total population, we collect data 
directly from the administrators of 
the major
 
group quarters facilit
ies
.  Inmates in state 
and federal institutions are accounted for separately in all local areas; these data are 
available from the 
F
ederal 
Bureau of Prisons
, the Florida Department of Corrections, 
the 
Florida Department of Veteran Affairs, the Florida Agency 
for Persons with Disabilities, 
the Florida Department of Health, the Florida Department of Juvenile Justice 
and the 
Florida Department of Children and Families.  The total population estimate is made by 
adding the estimate of the group quarters population 
to the estimate of the household 
population.  
 
 
Conclusion
 
 
The population estimates produced by BEBR are calculated by multiplying the number of 
households by the average number of persons per household and adding the number of 
persons living in group 
quarters. This methodology is conceptually simple but effective. It 
utilizes data that are available for all local areas, its components respond rapidly to 
population movements, and it can be applied systematically and uniformly everywhere in 
the state. A 
comparison of population estimates with census results for 1980, 1990, 2000, 
and 2010 showed the BEBR estimates to be quite accurate
, especially when compared to 
other sets of estimates
. We believe the HU method is the most effective method for making 
city
 
and county population estimates in Florida and that it produces reliable estimates that 
provide a solid foundation for budgeting, planning, and analysis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
