Skip to content       Health and Safety   Executive         Home News Guidance About HSE Books Free updates Contact          HSE Guidance Industries Food and drink manufacture Occupational health topics Disinfectants     Back to     Beta This is a new way of showing guidance - your feedback will help us improve it.
 Food &amp; drink manufacture Who we are  Overview - Who we are How we work HSE contacts   HSE and food manufacture  Overview - HSE and food manufacture About food manufacturing HSE's mission and strategy Food Manufacture H&amp;S Forum IOSH Food and Drink Group Recipe for Safety initiative Employing migrant workers   Food industries  Overview - Food industries Meat, poultry and fish Milling, animal feeds Bakery products Low-flour dust Dairy products Fruit and vegetables Confectionery Alcoholic and soft drinks Chilled and frozen products  Supply chain   Main causes of injury  Overview - Main causes of injury Manual handling Slips on wet or contaminated floors Falls from height Workplace transport Struck by something Food processing machinery  Overview - Food processing machinery European CEN 'C' Standards for food processing machines   Packaging machinery  Overview - Packaging machinery European CEN 'C' Standards for safety of packaging machines   Prevention of dust explosions  Overview - Prevention of dust explosions Selection and use of vacuum cleaners Explosion relief for small bins and silos     Occupational health topics  Overview - Occupational health topics Musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) Dermatitis Noise induced hearing loss Occupational asthma and rhinitis  Exposure to disinfectants Work-related stress Occupational rehabilitation  Overview - Occupational rehabilitation OH Case studies OH Case studies summary table     Topics of interest Resources  Overview - Resources Injury statistics  Overview - Injury statistics Success of Recipe for Safety initiative Injury rate comparison between different food industries Causes of non-fatal injury Causes of fatal injury Causes of occupational ill health   Publications Case studies Useful links   Events       Controlling exposure to disinfectants used in the food and drink industries Disinfectants in the food and drink industries  Disinfectants are biocidal chemicals used to control food contamination by micro-organisms.
 Disinfectants are classified as hazardous substances.
 Although disinfectants used in the food and drink industries are especially selected so that potential residues left on surfaces etc do not taint the food or are harmful to the consumer, many affect the skin, eyes or respiratory system and can be harmful if ingested in sufficient quantity.
 COSHH assessment  The Control of Substances Hazardous to Health Regulations 2002 (COSHH) requires employers to prevent or control exposure to hazardous substances.
 Where exposure cannot be prevented, employers are required to assess the risk to health, and provide adequate control measures when using hazardous chemicals.
 The assessment should include a list of all chemicals to be used, their hazards and measures provided to control operator exposure (covering safe storage, chemical compatibility, working concentrations/safe dilution procedures and application procedures and equipment).
 Additionally, the assessment should cover any air monitoring or health surveillance requirements, information and training requirements, provision of washing facilities, an emergency action plan (eg for spillage) and waste disposal arrangements.
 Suppliers of disinfectants have duties for classification and labelling under the Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures (CLP) Regulations.
 Hazards of disinfectants   Disinfectant suppliers should provide a material safety data sheet (MSDS) to set out the hazardous properties of each product.
 This provides information about the health hazards, physical and chemical characteristics, first aid and how to use the chemical safely.
 Disinfectants commonly used in the food, drink and catering industries include the following:   Surface active agents (surfactants) - these are detergents, some of which exhibit biocidal properties.
 These include the amphoterics (based on amyl alkyl glycines), the cationics (quaternary ammonium compounds - known as QACs or quats) and biguanides/diguanides.
 Many of the amphoterics and cationics are classified as skin, eye and respiratory irritants.
 Biguanides/diguanides are of low toxicity and irritancy and are useful skin disinfectants.
 Alcohols - these are used as skin cleaners as well as a transport medium for other active ingredients, but nevertheless are irritant to eyes, nose and throat at high airborne concentrations and can be a fire risk.
 Aldehydes - glutaraldehyde is classified as a skin and respiratory sensitisor.
 Formaldehyde is a strong respiratory irritant and is also classified as a category 3 carcinogen.
 Peracetic acid is a powerful oxidising agent used in the food and drink industries and is also extremely corrosive.
