Vote Now!
 Photo of the Day        Instagram           Video         Ingenuity Awards        Ask Smithsonian        Smithsonian Channel        Video Contest        Podcasts           Games         Daily Sudoku        Universal Crossword        Daily Word Search        Jumble        Mah Jong Quest        KenKen        Backgammon        Subscribe (Top Menu)   Current Issue    Subscribe Save 84% off the newsstand price!
 Subscribe (Dropdown) Renew (Dropdown) Give a Gift (Dropdown)      Shop          Smithsonian Magazine   Subscribe   SmartNews    History    Science    Ingenuity    Arts &amp; Culture    Travel    At the Smithsonian    Photos    Video    Games    +   At the Smithsonian Magazine Photos Videos Games   Shop     Search     Facebook     Twitter          Age of Humans Future of Space Exploration Human Behavior Mind &amp; Body Our Planet Space Wildlife Newsletter Earth Optimism Summit            Subscribe Book Shop Travel With Us SmartNews History Science Ingenuity Arts &amp; Culture Travel At the Smithsonian Photos Video Games Magazine Newsletters           What Is the Nocebo Effect?
 For some patients, the mere suggestion of side effects is enough to bring on negative symptoms (Photo by Tom Varco)             		  By                   Joseph Stromberg                  smithsonianmag.com      July 23, 2012       What if taking an absolutely harmless substance could make you sick?
 What if a sugar pill caused you to feel nausea, or a fake dose of lactose triggered unwelcome stomach symptoms in patients who are lactose intolerant?
 Related Content   Migraine Headaches and the Remarkable Power of Placebos    The strange truth about medicine and the brain is that they often interact in completely unpredictable and counterintuitive ways.
 Nowhere is this more true than with the bewildering phenomenon known as the nocebo effect.
 Most of us already know about the placebo effect.
 As part of medical studies, a control group is typically given an inert substance (usually a sugar pill) that provides a baseline to which researchers can compare the effectiveness of the new medicine being tested.
 The members of this group are told that the placebo is real—and surprisingly, they sometimes experience an actual improvement in their symptoms, simply because they expect that the medicine will make them feel better.
 An opposite tendency—and one that has been largely overlooked by the research community—is the nocebo effect.
 Put simply, it is the phenomenon in which inert substances or mere suggestions of substances actually bring about negative effects in a patient or research participant.
 For some, being informed of a pill or procedure’s potential side effects is enough to bring on real-life symptoms.
 Like the placebo effect, it is still poorly understood and thought to be brought about by a combination of Pavlovian conditioning and a reaction to expectations.
 Last week, researchers from the Technical University of Munich in Germany published one of the most thorough reviews to date on the nocebo effect.
 Breaking down 31 empirical studies that involved the phenomenon, they examined the underlying biological mechanisms and the problems it causes for doctors and researchers in clinical practice.
 Their conclusion: although perplexing, the nocebo effect is surprisingly common and ought to be taken into consideration by medical professionals on an everyday basis.
 In many of the experiments they analyzed, the suggestion or expectation of pain brought about significant increases in the amount of negative side effects experienced by participants.
 For example, in one study, 50 people who suffered from chronic back pain were given a flexibility test.
 Half were told beforehand that the test might cause some pain, while the others were not.
 Afterward, the first group reported a significantly higher amount of pain, despite enduring the exact same procedure.
 In another experiment, the drug finasteride was administered to help relieve symptoms of prostate disease, and half the participants were told that it could cause erectile dysfunction, while the other half was kept in the dark.
 Forty-four percent of the first group reported that they’d experienced ED, compared with just 15 percent of the uninformed group.
 The nocebo effect might even be powerful enough to kill.
 In one case study, researchers noted an individual who attempted to commit suicide by swallowing 26 pills.
 Although they were merely placebo tablets without a biological mechanism to harm the patient even at such a high dose, he experienced dangerously low blood pressure and required injections of fluids to be stabilized, based solely on the belief that the overdose of tablets would be deadly.
 After it was revealed that they were sugar pills, the symptoms went away quickly.
 The researchers suggest that doctors reconsider conventional beliefs about pain management to avoid magnifying painful side effects.
 It’s commonly thought that properly preparing a patient for pain—for example, “this might hurt quite a bit”—is the best way to minimize anxiety, so the patient knows what to expect.
 But one experiment analyzed showed that the very words used by a doctor before injecting radiographic substances affected the amount of pain experienced.
 The more frequently the words “sting,” “burn,” “hurt,” “bad” and “pain” were said, the more discomfort felt by patients.
 Of course, trying to avoid this sort of scenario puts a doctor in an ethical dilemma—limiting the patient’s discomfort could be at odds with keeping them informed about the procedure.
 To navigate this tension, the study’s authors advise doctors to emphasize positives (re-framing warnings into phrases such as “the majority of patients tolerate this well”) and, in some cases, actually getting permission from patients to keep them in the dark about certain mild side effects.
 Figuring out how to handle patients’ fears and anxieties, it turns out, can be just as difficult as fighting real diseases and infections.
 The surprising conclusion you might come to after learning about the nocebo effect?
 What you don’t know can’t hurt you.
 Like this article?
 SIGN UP for our newsletter    Privacy Policy, Terms of Use     About Joseph Stromberg   Joseph Stromberg was previously a digital reporter for Smithsonian.
 comments powered by Disqus         Photo of the day   Painted Photo of the Day»    Most Popular    Spot the Difference New Prehistoric Marine Reptile Resembled a Miniature Mix of Loch Ness Monster, Alligator and Toothy T. Rex When Catherine of Aragon Led England's Armies to Victory Over Scotland The Hunt for Julius Caesar's Assassins Marked the Last Days of the Roman Republic The Bittersweet Story of Vanilla How the Story of "Moana" and Maui Holds Up Against Cultural Truths Four Times the Results of a Presidential Election Were Contested Why Maine and Nebraska Split Their Electoral Votes Universal Crossword Puzzle Daily Hidden Object The (Still) Mysterious Death of Edgar Allan Poe Daily Word Search The True Story of Pocahontas Researchers Uncover 2,000-Year-Old Maya Water Filtration System The CIA’s Most Highly-Trained Spies Weren’t Even Human                          Current Issue | November 2020    Behind the Scenes With the White House Residence's Long-Serving Staff The Lab Saving the World From Snake Bites How Hedges Became the Unofficial Emblem of Great Britain  View Table of Contents     Subscribe Save 84% off the newsstand price!
 First &amp; Last Name  Last Name    First Name     Address 1    Address 2    City / State  City    State   AL AK AS AE AA AE AP AZ AR CA CO CT DE DC FL GA GU HI ID IL IN IA KS KY LA ME MD MA MI MN MS MO MT NE NV NH NJ NM NY NC ND MP OH OK OR PW PA PR RI SC SD TN TX UT VT VI VA WA WV WI WY     Zip     Email Address  Enter your email address     Continue or Give a Gift     Newsletters Get the best of Smithsonian magazine by email.
 Keep up-to-date on:  History Science &amp; Innovation Art Travel Special Offers  Sign-Up Now  Email Address  Enter your email address     Privacy Terms of Use Sign up         Smithsonian Magazine  SmartNews History Science Ingenuity Arts &amp; Culture Travel At the Smithsonian Photos Video Games       About Contact Advertising Sustainability Subscribe RSS Member Services             © 2020 Smithsonian Magazine.
 'https' : 'http') + '://' + (domain || 'js.matheranalytics.com/s') + '/' + cid + '/' + mkt + '/' + (config ?
 "d1z2jf7jlzjs58.cloudfront.net"    :"static.
