Healthcare DonationsNon-Healthcare Donations and SponsorshipsEquipment DonationsDonation and Grant Recipient List    Safety and Wellness   Back  
             Safety and Wellness
              OverviewSafetyWellness    Reporting and Metrics     Contact Us   Back   Contact Us    Locations   Product Inquiries     Investors    Media   Partners   Careers     Amgen Worldwide   Back    Amgen Worldwide
             Australia - English   Austria - Deutsch   Belgium - Français   Belgium - Nederlands   Brazil - Português   Bulgaria - български   Canada - English   Canada - Français   China - English   China - 汉语   Croatia - Hrvatski   Czech Republic - český   Denmark - Dansk   Finland - Suomen Kieli   France - Français   Germany - Deutsch   Greece - ελληνικά   Hong Kong - 中文   Hong Kong - English   Hungary - Magyarország   Ireland - English   Italy - Italiano   Japan - 日本語   Korea - English   Korea - 한국어   Mexico - Español   Netherlands - English   Netherlands - Nederlands   Norway - Norsk   Poland - język polski   Portugal - Português   Romania - Limba Română   Russia - русский язык   Singapore - English   Slovakia - Slovenčina   Slovenia - Slovenščina   Spain - Español   Sweden - Svenska   Switzerland - Français   Switzerland - Deutsch   Taiwan - English   Taiwan - 中文   Thailand - English   Thailand - ไทย   Turkey - Türkçe   United Kingdom - English   United States - English      Web Resources   Back    Web Resources
             Science Resources   Amgen Pipeline   Amgen Science   Introduction to Biotechnology   Disease Education   Breakaway from Cancer®   Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients   Science of Migraine   Areas of Focus   Amgen Biosimilars   Amgen Business Development   Amgen Foundation   Amgen Oncology               Search     Amgen Worldwide   Web Resources      Investors    Media   Partners   Careers                    
      Amgen Worldwide
       A biotechnology pioneer since 1980, Amgen has reached millions of patients around the world.
 Australia
           English    
          Austria
           Deutsch    
          Belgium
           Français | Nederlands    
          Brazil
           Português    
          Bulgaria
           български    
          Canada
           English | Français    
          China
           English | 汉语    
          Croatia
           Hrvatski    
          Czech Republic
           český    
          Denmark
           Dansk    
          Finland
           Suomen Kieli    
          France
           Français    
          Germany
           Deutsch    
          Greece
           ελληνικά        
          Hong Kong
           中文 | English    
          Hungary
           Magyarország    
          Ireland
           English    
          Italy
           Italiano    
          Japan
           日本語    
          Korea
           English | 한국어    
          Mexico
           Español    
          Netherlands
           English | Nederlands    
          Norway
           Norsk    
          Poland
           język polski    
          Portugal
           Português    
          Romania
           Limba Română        
          Russia
           русский язык    
          Singapore
           English    
          Slovakia
           Slovenčina    
          Slovenia
           Slovenščina    
          Spain
           Español    
          Sweden
           Svenska    
          Switzerland
           Français | Deutsch    
          Taiwan
           English | 中文    
          Thailand
           English | ไทย    
          Turkey
           Türkçe    
          United Kingdom
           English    
          United States
           English           
      Web Resources
       Amgen has developed a collection of online resources available to help you learn more about areas of interest.
 Science Resources  Amgen Pipeline   Amgen Science   Introduction to Biotechnology      Disease Education  Breakaway from Cancer®   Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients   Science of Migraine      Areas of Focus  Amgen Biosimilars   Amgen Business Development   Amgen Foundation   Amgen Oncology          About    Overview   Quick Facts   Mission and Values   Leadership   How We Operate   Awards and Accolades   Amgen History      Science    Overview   Research and Development Strategy   Pipeline    Scientific Advisory Boards   Amgen Science    Scientific Community Initiatives   Clinical Trials   Manufacturing   Biosimilars          products    Overview   Medical Information    Global Patient Safety   Counterfeit Drug Statement   Safety Data Sheets      Responsibility    Overview   Amgen’s Commitment to Patients   2019 Responsibility Highlights Report   Corporate Responsibility Strategy &amp; Governance   Amgen Foundation   Our Approach to Pricing, Access and Affordability   Access to Medicine   Diversity and Inclusion   Environment   Supplier Sustainability    Grants and Giving   Safety and Wellness   Reporting and Metrics         ×  Do you want to link to this External Site and leave Amgen.com?
 No, Return to Amgen.com 
      Yes, Leave Amgen.com  YOU ARE NOW LEAVING AMGEN'S WEB SITE.
 Amgen takes no responsibility for, and exercises no control over, the organizations, views, or accuracy of the information contained on this server or site.
 ×  Do you want to link to this External Site and leave Amgen.com?
 No, Return to Amgen.com.
 Yes, Leave Amgen.com  YOU ARE NOW LEAVING AMGEN'S WEB SITE.
 Amgen takes no responsibility for, and exercises no control over, the organizations, views, or accuracy of the information contained on this server or site.
 ×  Do you want to link to this External Site and leave Amgen.com?
 No, Return to Amgen.com 
      Yes, Leave Amgen.com  YOU ARE NOW LEAVING AMGEN'S WEB SITE.
 Amgen takes no responsibility for, and exercises no control over, the organizations, views, or accuracy of the information contained on this server or site.
 ×  Do you want to link to this External Site and leave Amgen.com?
 No, Return to Amgen.com 
      Yes, Leave Amgen.com  YOU ARE NOW LEAVING AMGEN'S WEB SITE.
 Amgen takes no responsibility for, and exercises no control over, the organizations, views, or accuracy of the information contained on this server or site.
 ×      
                 
    NEWS RELEASES
                     Home   Media   News Releases  
       Repatha Evolocumab Regresses Atherosclerosis In Patients With Coronary Artery Disease
                             Repatha® (Evolocumab) Regresses Atherosclerosis In Patients With Coronary Artery Disease
   Nearly Two-Thirds of Patients Experienced Plaque Regression With Repatha on Top of Optimized Statin Therapy Detailed Results Simultaneously Published in the Journal of the American Medical Association and Presented at AHA Scientific Sessions 2016  THOUSAND OAKS, Calif., Nov. 15, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Amgen (NASDAQ:AMGN) today announced that adding Repatha® (evolocumab) to optimized statin therapy resulted in statistically significant regression of atherosclerosis in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).
 The detailed results from the GLAGOV Phase 3 coronary intravascular ultrasound imaging trial were presented at a Late-Breaking Clinical Trials Session of the American Heart Association (AHA) Scientific Sessions 2016 and simultaneously published in the Journal of the American Medical Association.
 To view the multimedia assets associated with this release, please click: http://www.multivu.com/players/English/74140513-amgen-repatha-glagov-study.
 The GLAGOV study evaluated whether Repatha, a proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitor for the treatment of certain patients with elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), would modify atherosclerotic plaque build-up in the coronary arteries of patients already treated with optimized statin therapy, as measured by intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) at baseline and week 78.
 "The cardiovascular community began conducting imaging studies with LDL-C therapies to measure slowing of atherosclerotic disease progression.
 This study shows that maximal LDL-C reduction with Repatha can actually regress coronary atherosclerotic disease compared to statins alone," said Sean E. Harper, M.D., executive vice president of Research and Development at Amgen.
 "In fact, nearly two-thirds of patients on Repatha in this trial, the vast majority of whom were already on high to moderate intensity statin therapy at baseline, experienced a reduction in plaque burden."
 The study met its primary objective showing that treatment with Repatha resulted in a statistically significant regression from baseline in percent atheroma volume (PAV), which is the proportion of arterial lumen occupied by plaque.
 Patients in the Repatha arm experienced a 0.95 percent decrease versus baseline in PAV compared with an increase of 0.05 percent versus baseline in patients receiving optimized statin therapy plus placebo (Repatha arm p 100 mg/dL (2.6 mmol/L) not taking highly effective statin therapy, required investigators' attestation as to why such doses were not appropriate.
 The primary endpoint was change in PAV from baseline to week 78 compared to placebo, as determined by IVUS.
 IVUS is a high-resolution imaging tool that allows for the quantification of coronary atheroma in the coronary arteries.
 Secondary endpoints included PAV regression (any reduction from baseline); change in TAV from baseline to week 78; and regression (any reduction from baseline) in TAV.
 About Repatha® (evolocumab)Repatha® (evolocumab) is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9).
 Repatha binds to PCSK9 and inhibits circulating PCSK9 from binding to the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor (LDLR), preventing PCSK9-mediated LDLR degradation and permitting LDLR to recycle back to the liver cell surface.
 By inhibiting the binding of PCSK9 to LDLR, Repatha increases the number of LDLRs available to clear LDL from the blood, thereby lowering LDL-C levels.1 The FOURIER outcomes trial is designed to evaluate whether treatment with Repatha or placebo on top of optimized statin therapy, reduces the risk of cardiovascular events in patients with clinically evident atherosclerotic disease.
 The trial completed patient enrollment in June 2015.
 The primary endpoint for the FOURIER trial is major cardiovascular events defined as the composite of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, hospitalization for unstable angina or coronary revascularization.
 The key secondary endpoint is the composite of cardiovascular death, MI or stroke.
 The trial is planned to continue until at least 1,630 patients experience the secondary endpoint, thereby providing 90 percent power to detect a relative reduction of 15 percent in this endpoint.
 Top-line results from the approximately 27,500-patient event-driven FOURIER study are anticipated in the first quarter of 2017.
 Repatha is approved in more than 40 countries, including the U.S., Japan, Canada and in all 28 countries that are members of the European Union.
 Applications in other countries are pending.
 Important U.S.
 Product Information Repatha® is indicated as an adjunct to diet and:  Maximally tolerated statin therapy for treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD), who require additional lowering of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C)  Other LDL-lowering therapies (e.g., statins, ezetimibe, LDL apheresis) in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) who require additional lowering of LDL-C   The effect of Repatha® on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined.
 The safety and effectiveness of Repatha® have not been established in pediatric patients with HoFH who are younger than 13 years old.
 The safety and effectiveness of Repatha® have not been established in pediatric patients with primary hyperlipidemia or HeFH.
 Important U.S. Safety Information Contraindication: Repatha® is contraindicated in patients with a history of a serious hypersensitivity reaction to Repatha®.
 Allergic reactions: Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g.
 rash, urticaria) have been reported in patients treated with Repatha®, including some that led to discontinuation of therapy.
 If signs or symptoms of serious allergic reactions occur, discontinue treatment with Repatha®, treat according to the standard of care, and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve.
 Adverse reactions: The most common adverse reactions (&gt;5% of Repatha® -treated patients and more common than placebo) were: nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, influenza, back pain, and injection site reactions.
 In a 52-week trial, adverse reactions led to discontinuation of treatment in 2.2% of Repatha® -treated patients and 1% of placebo-treated patients.
 The most common adverse reaction that led to Repatha® treatment discontinuation and occurred at a rate greater than placebo was myalgia (0.3% versus 0% for Repatha® and placebo, respectively).
 Adverse reactions from a pool of the 52-week trial and seven 12-week trials:  Local injection site reactions occurred in 3.2% and 3.0% of Repatha® -treated and placebo-treated patients, respectively.
 The most common injection site reactions were erythema, pain, and bruising.
 The proportions of patients who discontinued treatment due to local injection site reactions in Repatha® -treated patients and placebo-treated patients were 0.1% and 0%, respectively.
 Allergic reactions occurred in 5.1% and 4.7% of Repatha® -treated and placebo-treated patients, respectively.
 The most common allergic reactions were rash (1.0% versus 0.5% for Repatha® and placebo, respectively), eczema (0.4% versus 0.2%), erythema (0.4% versus 0.2%), and urticaria (0.4% versus 0.1%).
 Neurocognitive events were reported in less than or equal to 0.2% in Repatha®-treated and placebo-treated patients.
