Home Subscribe News Categories   Coconut Health Real Food Nutrition Medicine Watch Alternative Health Sustainable Agriculture Created4Health   Peace with God About Us   About Health Impact News Contact Us Opportunities                                    Home Subscribe News Categories   Coconut Health Real Food Nutrition Medicine Watch Alternative Health Sustainable Agriculture Created4Health   Peace with God About Us   About Health Impact News Contact Us Opportunities                                 November 9, 2020   Print This Post   BREAKING: Vet Group Finds Pedophile Child Sex Camp Near Tucson – Local Law Enforcement Refuses to Help as Tensions Rise        Note: If the videos on this page do not work, it probably means they have been removed from Facebook and Youtube.
 Several people are downloading them as fast as possible, and we should be able to replace them should that happen.
 This article contains graphic videos and graphic language in the videos!
 Not suitable for younger audiences.
 UPDATE July 13, 2018 Arizona Veterans Group Calls Out Local Law Enforcement and Mayor for Covering Up Pedophile Trafficking UPDATE June 9, 2018 Craig Sawyer, the head of the organization Veterans for Child Rescue, was originally called out to the scene of the alleged child sex camp last week, and took some videos showing things that were related to sex trafficking, and definitely not a homeless camp, has now changed his story and taken down his video evidence, for some reason.
 You can listen to his statement here.
 Interestingly, he apparently disabled comments for the video.
 He refutes certain claims that Health Impact News has never heard from any of the livestream videos of VOP, such as that children had been found in the camp on site when it was discovered, and he was called in to rescue those children.
 He admits that the evidence was “concerning” and yet he has removed his videos for some reason.
 He states that many of the claims for evidence are “false,” and yet Lewis Arthur has some of this evidence recorded and has stated that they did not turn all evidence over to the police, for fear it would disappear.
 Sawyer also mentions that the child skull found was about 20 miles away from the original camp found, but it is unclear how that affects anything, since all involved agree this is a corridor used by illegals and the cartels.
 Sawyer has now apparently changed his mind, and his video response goes to great lengths to promote his own organization and relationships with local law enforcement across the country.
 To hear what Sawyer originally said, go here.
 Lewis Arthur addressed the Sawyer statement in his morning update today, June 9th.
 You can watch it below.
 At about the 2:26 mark he starts addressing the Craig Sawyer statement.
 He clearly states that they retain the evidence that Craig Sawyer says does not exist.
 I really don’t care (that Craig Sawyer is changing his story).
 It doesn’t matter.
 It doesn’t affect (us).
 Any agencies, I don’t care if its Vets for Child Rescue or anyone else, if they’re out there running their mouth and changing their tune, I want you to look at how much money they take in from the public, and how many people they’ve rescued.
 And then I want you to look at how much money we have taken from the public.
 ZERO.
 And how many children have we rescued in our city?
 38.
 Fact check that.
 38 children we have rescued, and not just homeless children on the street….
 and our team went all the way to California (to rescue to two children out of a pedophilia house.)
 So anyone who’s taking your money, and then all of a sudden they’re changing their tune, the only excuse I can think of is, either they are being threatened by someone else, or they are being threatened that you guys are going to affect their bottom line.
 They don’t want you sending out materials to help our search and rescue teams, but they want you to send them money to their organization so that they can pay to fly and drive all over the place, where we will do it for free.
 You just send us fuel cards.
 100% of what you send us (which is NO cash) goes to them (the search and rescue teams).
 UPDATE June 7, 2018 Veterans Group in Arizona Confront’s Police on Inaction – Finds Child’s Dead Body While Authorities Stand By UPDATE June 5, 2018 Lewis Arthur: “The Stand Off is NOT Over!
 We’re stepping up!” Evidence collection continues as others join and help secure the area.
 Vet Group Finds Pedophile Child Sex Camp Near Tucson – Local Law Enforcement Refuses to Help as Tensions Rise by Brian Shilhavy Editor, Health Impact News A few days ago, a group of veterans based out of Tucson, Arizona, known as Veterans on Patrol (VOP), stumbled upon what they have good evidence to believe is a child sex camp.
 The group was searching for homeless veterans, part of their mission in trying to prevent veteran suicides.
 This is a worthy mission, considering the fact that more soldiers die by suicide than by combat.
 (Source.)
 On May 29th, the group was out with another organization called American Rehab Campuses, trying to pull drug addicts off of the streets, particularly those caught up in the opiod crisis.
 Image from Facebook.
 They stumbled upon something by chance, and it was in a known human trafficking corridor with ties to the Mexican Cartels.
 This is apparently the first report published by VOP’s Lewis Arthur on what happened that night:  When they found a structure powered by solar lights, they knew right away they had found something that certainly was not constructed by homeless people or drug addicts.
 They found an underground chamber where young children apparently had been imprisoned, presumably as part of a pedophile sex trafficking ring.
 Here is a video recording of the underground chamber:   The group alerted local law enforcement and Homeland Security to investigate, and to bring out “cadaver dogs” to look for bodies, but they would not respond.
 After nearly 24 hours of no Investigator showing and the Department of Homeland Security making a PHONE ASSESSMENT declaring that no Human Trafficking was occurring in our area… Alpha Company invited Fox News to come get a first hand look at rape trees, an underground child prison cell, and new construction going in to expand child holding capabilities.
 This is occurring not on our Border… but in our own City… Tucson, Arizona.
 The Child Sex Traffickers took a hit when VOP and ARC discovered their secret Camp… but they will just move on and start again elsewhere (unless we find them first, and we are looking.)
 Alpha Company would like to thank Nailer of Arizona Border Recon and Craig “Sawman” Sawyer for assisting us last evening when the Child Sex Camp was discovered.
 Nothing to see here America… just innocence being raped and beaten from small children off the I-19 and Valencia exit in our own backyard.
 More on this to come.
 (Source.)
 The mission was named Operation Backyard Brawl, #operationbackyardbrawl.
 As of last night, Sunday June 3, 2018, Lewis Arthur and another American veteran were in a stand-off with local authorities who were trying to stop their investigation, and they fully expected government forces to execute them.
 But things began turning around for them today, Monday June 4th.
 Child Sex Camp was Allegedly Built by a Company Called Cemex After two days with no response from anyone with the government, law enforcement, or the people owning the property, a clearly irritated Lewis Arthur of VOP posted the following video stating that his team was taking over the land to prevent further sexual abuse of children, and that they were going to disassemble the camp and drop it off at the door of DHS headquarters “We will do what the Government fails to do… We will stop undeterred Child Sex Trafficking by occupying Cartel Territory.” (Source.)
 Caution!
 Graphic material in this video, including images of “child rape trees” and graphic language.
 On June 1st, local law enforcement did show up, but NOT in response to VOP’s complaint.
 The company that had provided a 30 year lease to a Mexican company for the property, which was an abandoned strip mine, had a female representative make an official complaint and asked the police to remove VOP from the property.
 She claimed that the Mexican company leasing the property, itself also allegedly a mining company, was simply bringing rock and other material to dump on the land.
 Since VOP had thoroughly investigated the property at this time, they saw no evidence for their claims.
 In fact, VOP was cleaning up the land, fixing the fences, and securing the property – a free service any land owner would be happy to receive.
 VOP responded to the police that they were not going to leave, and that they were in an official “stand off.”  VOP finally found out the name of the company who owned the property, and it is Cemex.
 Cemex had their attorneys make a complaint to the police asking them to remove VOP, or else they would send their own security to remove them.
 Who is Cemex?
 Others have investigated the company and found out some things about them.
 They have connections to powerful people such as the Clintons and the Clinton Foundation:  According to Bizapedia, the address of Cemex is 1501 BELVEDERE ROAD WEST PALM BEACH, FL 33406.
 But a search finds 186 companies using the exact same address.
 (Source.)
 Other, more sinister things are being reported on the Internet, but Health Impact News has not been able to verify those claims yet.
 Local Media Finally Shows Up On a June 2nd update, Lewis Arthur reported that people were starting to come to the camp, and those who did so, had no doubts about VOP’s claims that the area was being used for child sex trafficking, as the evidence was overwhelming.
 Things were beginning to heat up on social media, and on June 3rd a local media station sent out a reporter.
 Apparently, someone had contacted their news station reporting that someone was just building shelters for the homeless and that VOP was making a big deal out of nothing.
 When the reporter arrived, she allegedly did not even talk to anyone on the VOP team who had done all the investigating work, nor come to their headquarters to view the evidence.
 At the conclusion of their “investigative report,” the reporter said: “So is this a homeless camp, or is it a camp that was trafficking children?
 We don’t know.
 But we’ll find out for you, and let you know.”   Here is VOP’s version:  Pleas for Help!
 By day five, Arthur’s voice is obviously tired and frustrated.
 He talks about how they have been abandoned by our government who refuses to send out help, leaving them in harms way in a known cartel sex trafficking corridor as they stand guard to ensure no more children are molested.
 He appeals for help.
 He asks people to share their story, and to call the sheriff department to grant their request to have cadaver dogs (to search for buried dead bodies) come out.
 He makes it clear that federal agents are not welcome, and will be considered as trespassing.
 All local law enforcement are welcome to come.
 Approved for immediate release: Walking for the Forgotten Ministry, on behalf of its Veteran Suicide Prevention Program called Veterans On Patrol, is calling on Sheriff Mark Napier of Pima County to: Declare a County State of Emergency for: The expansion of human trafficking, child rape, child torture, and child murder going undeterred by Coyotes working for Mexican Cartels, MS13, and Independent Contractors.
 The failure of the Federal Government to secure newly discovered Child Sex Camps and investigate Cemex’s dealings with a “Company” who has turned over Leased property to both Local and Foreign Terrorist Organizations.
 The failure of the Federal Government to enforce existing Laws and Regulations which prohibits a spent and abandoned mining property from being unsecured.
 In addition: We request our Elected Sheriff to assist us in searching the I-19 Corridor for a network of underground holding cells and hidden Child Sex Camps.
 We request our Elected Sheriff to utilize his Constitutional Powers to prevent the Federal Government from taking any action against VOP and its Allies who have joined in the SAR Operation.
 We request our Elected Sheriff to lead all negotiations as they relate to VOP’s occupation of the Private Property Owner and Leasee who are complicit through neglect or willful participation that lead to the trafficking, rape, suspected abduction, and potential murder of children (and possibly women.)
 Source.
 The sheriff office apparently declined to help, as VOP posted this: Our Sheriff’s Office informed our Teams that Mark Napier does not respond to calls requesting him to come out and the Sheriff’s Department doesn’t respond to calls within Tucson City Limits.
 Please call 520-351-4900 and demand our Elected Official to listen to his Constituents which include both Federal and State Employees who have taken huge risks to stand up against this evil.
 CALL and SHARE.
 As of early June 3rd, VOP was asking the public for support.
 They invited the public to come out and see the evidence for themselves, and make phone calls to their local elected officials if they live in Arizona.
 The rush was on now to gather and secure as much evidence as possible, before it is destroyed.
 They are finding lots of children items such as jewelry, clothes, toys, etc.
 They have reportedly found bloodied items like women’s panties, and other gruesome things that totally disproves the theory some in the corporate media want to promote as a homeless camp.
 Throughout the videos posted on their FB page, Arthur makes it clear that they do NOT want to fight the government.
 They just want the local government to either come out and help them, or stay out of their way until they finish their mission.
 Opposition Increases By June 3rd, Facebook videos began to disappear, and it was obvious that efforts were in place to suppress the evidence they had gathered.
 A SWAT team was brought to the property.
 So they began moving some of the evidence to other locations.
 Here is one video that apparently disappeared from their Facebook Page, but is available on the Internet in other places.
 Arthur invited families from Tucson who have lost their children to come out and look at their collection of child items that they had gathered to see if they could identify them as belonging to their children:   Police Move In – Arrest Gate Guards On a June 3rd post, Arthur explains how two of their volunteer guards at the entrance to the property, a father and son team, were arrested.
 They were just standing there letting people through, and offered no resistance.
 The police apparently locked everyone in, and tensions began to rise.
 They began to make plans to evacuate all of the children.
 Arthur gives an impassioned plea for help:  A Desperate Plea to Americans to Help as They Expect Local Authorities to Execute Them As of Sunday night, only Arthur and one other member were on the property.
 Here are the updates by Arthur from Sunday night, June 3rd.
 He makes it clear that they are unarmed, which puts them in danger from the cartel.
 In each video his voice is fading.
 People are coming by and shooting guns trying to intimidate them.
 Other local Hispanics actually support them.
 He has been up for more than 24 hours.
 They have solar power to keep their camera phones charged and keep broadcasting.
 New Developments Today, Monday June 4th In a video recorded early Monday morning, Arthur explains that they might finally get their cadaver dogs.
 He reveals that he received a call from Washington D.C. explaining that the reason all of this has been happening is because the Indian reservation bordering the property is allegedly holding a key cartel leader, and that they might have to kill the cartel leader (rather than transport him somewhere) if Arthur keeps up his occupation and media coverage.
 Arthur is not totally convinced, and makes it clear he is more concerned about saving kids than saving a drug cartel leader.
 He calls on other veterans who are considering suicide to come out and help them uncover and guard the evidence, to help stop child sex trafficking, which would give their lives great meaning.
 Later in the morning, Arthur’s voice is visibly hoarse, and it is hard for him to talk.
 He states that volunteers are on the way with their own cadaver dogs.
 He appreciates all the support people are showing, and states he got 3 hours of sleep.
 This video shows many people showing up to help and talking to him, and police are apparently no longer hindering him.
 The last video posted just before publication of this article, shows Arthur explaining that local law enforcement is no longer hindering them, and allowing people to come and help VOP continue their investigation.
 Their two team members who were arrested, were reportedly released.
 How did this dramatic turn around happen?
 Apparently Arthur cannot publicly reveal that at this time.
 Things are still changing by the hour, and updates can be found at the VOP Facebook Page.
 But for now, it appears that Arthur’s persistence and faith in God have prevailed.
 Throughout the videos he expresses his faith that God was protecting and leading him.
 13 Comments         Connie ronquillo
 					January 1, 2019 at 9:33 pm
