© 2015 Planned Parenthood Federation of America. All Rights Reserved.
 ˜˚˛
˜˝˛
˜˙˛
˜ˆ˛


˜˚ˆ˜˚˙˛



˜˛




˝˙†
ˆˇ˘

˚˚˚
˛
˚˚˚

˚˚˚
˙˜ˆ
˚˚˚

˚˚
˚˚˙˛



˚˚˜˜˚˚˚˚

˚˚˚
˜ˆ˜˝˜˙

˝—˜’

˚˝–˜š2014 Š
2015
˛Annual Report
2014 Š

2015
˛Annual Report
 €



ƒ

⁄˚

˘

⁄˚
˜˚ˆ
 We are at a critical moment in our history. 
Over the past several months, we have been 

tested in every way imaginable Š and have 

emerged stronger than ever. 
  
No one would bother attacking Planned 
 Parenthood if we didn™t matter. Planned 
 Parenthood™s resilient staff and clinicians are 


 reproductive and sexual health care and in 
 the cultural landscape at large. 
This year, we protected and expanded access 
to health care for women, men, and young 

people. Despite bosses who want to make 

our birth control their business, today more 

than 55 million women now have no-copay 

birth control thanks to the Affordable Care 

Act Š saving women an estimated $1.4 billion 


Planned Parenthood health centers 
continued to provide care in areas of the 

country where people need it the most. 

One half of the health centers are located in 

medically underserved communities. This 

fall, a Planned Parenthood health center 



patient in a remote Alaskan village. If the 

Arctic Circle isn™t too far away for Planned 

Parenthood to provide care, we don™t know 

what is! 
Because of Planned Parenthood innovative 

sex education programs, accessible to 

anyone with a phone, together with our 



people and adults in the U.S. this year. 

No wonder we™re at a 40-year low in teen 

pregnancy in this country. Our global 

partners also continue to provide sexual 

health information to young people around 

the globe, from Nigeria to Ecuador. 
Our advocacy efforts never slow down. 
 We are constantly working hard to deepen
 our partnerships with allies, lobby in state 
 
access to safe and legal abortion is 

threatened. 
Your generosity makes all of this possible. 
 No parent in the world wants their daughter 
to have fewer rights than they did Š so it™s 

up to us to make sure every girl growing up 

today will be able to control her body, her 

life, and her opportunities.
Because of you, we are protecting her future. 
Thank you for your support and leadership.
˚˝There never has been a more important time to stand 
for and with Planned Parenthood. 
 4  2014 Œ 2015 Annual Report
 ’†˙—˘•…˘˚˘˘“ˇ…ˇ
˘…ˇˇˇ˘ˇ˘˚

…˘‹…˚˘ˇ−ˇ˘˚‘ˇ˘

”ˇ““ƒ˚‚…“…˚

‘˘˚‘™ˇ„˚ˇ‹”ˇˇˇˇ˘˘‘…˚

€˘ˇˇ˘“ˇ“˘˘…˚

⁄…˘ˇ‹˘ˇ⁄˘……

ˇ˘˘‘’ˇ˘˘˘

Ł‰š‰ƒ˚‚ˇ“‰—˚‹ˇˇˇˇ˘‰˚Œ˘˚‚ˇ

˘“ˇ…‘˘‹ˇˇˇˇˇˇ⁄

˘˘ˇ‘’ˇ˘…˚˘ˇ€

‘˚‚‹ƒ˚‹…˚„ˇ“‰˚

†€‚ƒ˚‚˘ˇ€ˇ€˘˘˚’…˚‚ˇ

“‹˚…˚˘˘‰
˜ˆ“˛
˛ 6  2014 Œ 2015 Annual Report
We protected and expanded 
access to birth control Š 
and 

broadened the conversation 

about how truly revolutionary 

birth control remains.
 ‡
staff and raise awareness about the most effective forms of reversible birth control Š IUDs 

and hormonal implants. These long-acting reversible contraceptives are shown to reduce 

unintended pregnancy.
In 2015, some insurance companies denied birth control coverage or required women 


Act. Together with a coalition of women™s health groups, we advocated that insurance 

companies cover all 18 FDA-approved birth control methods for women without a copay Š 

not a curated selection. And we won. The Obama administration ensured that women have 

access to affordable birth control that works best for them Š including birth control pills, the 

patch, the shot, emergency contraception, the implant, and the IUD. 
Planned Parenthood Advocates of Oregon, meanwhile, advocated for a landmark law 


year™s supply of the pill, patch, or ring up front. 
We also empowered people to share their own birth control stories through our
 #BirthControlHelpedMe 
social media campaign. Within a matter of hours, more than 1,500 

including Teri, who shared the following message: 
ﬁ#BirthControlHelpedMe deploy to a 

combat zone and serve my country. #armystrong #NotEveryGIIsAJoe,ﬂ
 and a woman named 

Elizabeth, who wrote: 



 This conversation continues to grow louder and 

stronger as we push forward to expand birth control access to all who need it. 
Ž˚˚˘ˇ“…˚‹˘‹˚€ˇ˘
˘’„˚‹Ÿˇ€˚‹˘€˘…˚

ˇ€˚‹Ÿˇ€˚ˇ

˘…˚‚˘…˚‹„˚

˘‹‹ƒ˚‚ˇ…˚

‘˘˘…˚†˚‚“˘…

ˇ˘ˇ„‹ˇ€ˇ˘˚

‹“˘“˘˚‹ˇ˘˘‰ł
Kathryn N.
26 Years Old, Arlington, Virginia
 8  2014 Œ 2015 Annual Report
We engaged in 
 research projects leading to 
 cutting-edge health care. 
 …Planned Parenthood researchers participate in the rigorous studies necessary to give women 
more options to prevent unintended pregnancies. 
In February 2015, the FDA approved Liletta, an IUD that is safe and effective for up to three 
years and is priced at $50 at qualifying public health clinics. Many Planned Parenthood 



option for women in the U.S. Planned Parenthood Federation of America Medical Services 

Department is now working with Medicines360, the developer of Liletta, to ensure that 


In June 2015, 
The Lancet

researchers at the University of California, San Francisco, about how training health care 
providers in contraceptive counseling and insertion of the most effective forms of reversible 

contraception Š IUDs and implants Š could affect patients™ contraceptive decisions and 



of evidence-based provider training in reducing unintended pregnancies. The study 

results showed that patients whose providers had enhanced training chose highly effective 

contraception more often and experienced reduced unintended pregnancy over one year. 

Training based upon the study is now being replicated at additional Planned Parenthood and 

independent health centers nationwide. 
 ˚˜
We protected and expanded 
access to abortion.
Over the past year, we won court victories protecting abortion access. In Indiana, Louisiana, 
and Wisconsin, we fought back against targeted restrictions of abortion providers Š known 

as TRAP laws Š that would have severely limited the practices of abortion providers as well as 

abortion facilities and made it much harder for women to access safe and legal abortion care. 
Thanks to our attorneys™ work, we were also able to block a mandatory ultrasound law in 
North Carolina, which had no medical purpose and would have only served to shame women 

accessing basic health care. 
 ˚˚
when the state Supreme Court struck down 

a ban on medication abortion through 

telemedicine. Had this ban gone into effect, 

many women would have had to take 

multiple trips of up to 400 miles to access 

safe, legal abortion, as more than one-third 

of Iowans live in rural areas. 
Because of the advocacy work by Planned 


of California passed a law authorizing nurse 



physician assistants to perform a method 



number of providers and raising abortion 

access to a gold standard.
Planned Parenthood Federation of America 
also led a coalition of Returned Peace 

Corps Volunteers and reproductive health 

organizations to advocate for the Peace 

Corps Equity Act Š and we won! For the 



extended equitable abortion coverage to 

Peace Corps Volunteers, who previously 

had been denied any coverage for 

abortion, even in the cases of rape, incest, 

and life endangerment. More than half of 

all Peace Corps Volunteers are women, 

and hundreds of volunteers were raped or 

sexually assaulted between 2000 and 2009.
We advocated for Congress to reject a ban 
on abortion at 20 weeks because while 

women should not have to justify their 

personal medical decisions, the reality is 

that abortion later in pregnancy is very rare 
‹˘„˚‹ˇ…‚ˇ
‚ˇŸœ˘˚‹‰˚ı„˚
˘˘˚‚ˇ“˘„˚

‹…ˇ−

ˇ‰˚†˚Ÿ

˘ˇ‹˚‘•˛˚

„˘““‰˚

†˚…ˇ…“˘ˇƒ˚‚ˇ

†˚‚

˘˘‰˚šˇ

€“˘‹˘ˇˇ‘˚‘˘

‘…˘ˇ…”‘‘˘…˚

ˇ˘˘‚„˚‘˘˘ˇ…‰˚˚

˚
“ˇ€˚‹ˇ“˘˘˚‚

…ˇ‘’˘ˇ”

“‹€ˇˇ‘

ˇŸ‘˚†”˘˘ˇ˘

˘‹‰˚†˚‚“

ˇˇ

˘ˇ€“„„˚

ˇ‘„ˇˇ“˘˘ƒ˚

…˚−˘‘œ

˘˘‘˘ˇ

ˇ‘ˇ˘„‰ł
Amanda H. 
32 Years Old, Houston, Texas
and often happens under very complex 
circumstances. We lifted up the real-life 

stories of women and families to remind 

lawmakers and voters that abortion is a 

complicated, personal decision that should 

be made by a woman in consultation with 

her doctor Š not her lawmaker. 
 12  2014 Œ 2015 Annual Report
We launched
 a new movement
  
of young leaders.
 ˚˝Ž†˚……˘˘
š‹€‘…
…˘€€ˇ˘€ˇ“ˇ€˚

‘…˘ˇˇˇ‘˘ˇ‹˘ˇ‹‹ˇ„ƒ˚

„‘˘ˇ‹˘ˇ‹‰˚†˚

˘ˇ−‹’˘‹˚Ÿ‚ˇ€˚

‚”ˇ€ˇ“„”……˚

˘ˇ…“‹ƒ˚ˇ…ˇ€˚

…“„˚‘˘˚Ÿˇ˘‘€‰˚†˚‚˘Ÿ˚

ŸŸ…˘‚˚ˇ‹˘ˇ

ˇ…˚‹‹˚‚˘˘‰˚†”“˘…˚

‹…“„˚ˇ˘‘ˇ”ˇˇ„˚

‹€˘€ˇ˘…˚š‰ł˚
Janiene T. 
 24 Years Old, Atlanta, Georgia

Parenthood Generation Action (or PPGenAction for those in the know) and PPGeneration, 

respectively, creating a movement. The 2014 Power Tour and Youth Organizing Policy 

Institute trained and mobilized a whopping 1,000 young activists representing all 50 states 

and Washington, DC, 40 percent of whom were youth activists of color. Over the course of 

seven incredible weeks, these young leaders visited seven cities and honed their activist chops. 
And PPFA™s PPGeneration worked with two campaign partners Š Advocates for Youth and 
Feminist Majority Foundation Š to motivate over 12,500 young people across 28 states to get 

more involved in their communities and become more civically engaged.
 ˚˙
We expanded care
  
to even more 
 LGBTQ patients. 
This year, the U.S. Supreme Court recognized that the right to marry extends to same-sex 


all couples should be treated equally and that politicians should not get to decide what you 

do with your body or what your family looks like, and that rights in this country should not 

depend on the state you live in.
Planned Parenthood believes that reproductive rights are deeply connected to LGBTQ 
rights and is proud to be a provider of health care and information for so many in the 



patients, with 26 centers now offering this care in California, Colorado, Maine, Montana, 

North Carolina, New Hampshire, Nevada, New York, Vermont, and Washington State. Many 



creating safe and supportive environments that allow youth to get the information and 

support they need to make healthy decisions and feel comfortable in their identities.
  15ﬁ I have access to quality and compassionate health  
care at Planned Parenthood, where I am getting  
hormone treatment. I™m so glad that not only can  

I do advocacy work with Planned Parenthood;  

I can get my health care services here, too.ﬂ
Brooke B. 
20 Years Old, Denver, Colorado
 ˚š
We reshaped the narrative 
 about sexuality
 through popular culture. 
We collaborated with leading celebrities who are outspoken about the right of every person 
to own their sexuality. And they have stood with us. Scarlett Johansson, Laverne Cox, Selenis 

Leyva, Jenny Slate, Aisha Tyler, Gabrielle Union, Julianne Moore, Lena Dunham, and other 

celebs tweeted messages of support with #IStandWithPP. 
We worked closely with Lena Dunham during her book tour for

, partnering with her in nine cities. When asked by 
Vanity Fair
 who her heroes were, Dunham 
said, ﬁThe men and women who work at Planned Parenthood health centers across America.ﬂ 
We asked Dunham to feature a story line in her HBO show, 
Girls,
 that destigmatized 
abortion Š and not only did Dunham work closely with us on the storyline and script, we also 

coordinated publicity in 
People,
 the most widely read weekly magazine in the nation. 
We arranged for
 MTV™s
 Virgin Territory




Grandma 
and 
Unexpected 
to ensure they handled issues related to unintended 
pregnancy and pregnancy options, including abortion, accurately and sensitively.
 ˚‡We also joined with legendary riot grrrl rock band Sleater-Kinney on their ﬁNo Cities to Loveﬂ 


T-shirts, and helping concert goers sign up for the ﬁMy Health, My Life, No Matter Whatﬂ 

pledge to lobby legislators to stop interfering in women™s health care decisions. 

culture, we partnered with the 1 in 3 Campaign to educate people that nearly a third of 

American women have an abortion at some point. With President Cecile Richards leading 



patients and supporters who have had an abortion.
˘‚˘Ÿ„˚ı„˚šˇ
 ˚—
We expanded access to health care
Š through technology and innovation.
For patients living in rural areas, getting access to health care can be a challenge. But those 
in Alaska, Idaho, Minnesota, and Washington State now can talk with a Planned Parenthood 

provider online, face-to-face, through real-time video technology Š and then receive birth 

control or an STD test kit and treatment (if necessary) in the mail. 
Patients in California can download an app called Planned Parenthood Direct, enabling them 
to order an at-home STD kit and then return it to the lab in a prepaid, self-addressed envelope. 

These programs are in the pilot stage, and we will work to expand them as we continue to learn 

from patients and providers about their experiences. 
This generation of patients doesn™t want to wait for care Š and why should they? Currently 


appointment scheduling Š and to date patients have booked over 400,000 appointments at 

over 375 health centers. As online health care delivery evolves, Planned Parenthood evolves 

with it. 
 ˚…We helped
 strengthen 





 

resulting in an average 25% decrease in patient waiting time and a 30% increase in total 
 visits per hour. 

interim CEOs the tools they need to build and leverage leadership skills, build connections 

with staff across the federation, and enhance awareness of the resources available to their 





increased security measures.
 20  2014 Œ 2015 Annual Report
We ﬁgot realﬂ 
about 
 sex education.
 ˆ˚Ž¡
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘
˘˘ˇ‹˚ˇ‚˘‘ˇ˘˚‘‹ˇˇ
“˘„˚ˇ‹˘„˘“ˇ…˘
ˇ€˚ˇˇ…ˇƒ˚‚…˘

•ˇ„˚¢˚Œˇ‘‘˘ˇ€ƒ˚‹„˚Ÿˇ…‹‹ˇ

£‹‚˘ŸŸ˚‹•˘ˇŸ˚‹

ˇ“ˇˇ˘ˇ˘˘‹ˇ˘˚

ˇˇ‰¡
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ
¡‹Ÿˇ‚Ÿ‚˘ˇ“
‹˘“˘ˇ‰¡
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ
¡‹˘˘Ÿ
˘…‚„˚ˇˇ€˚„˘“ˇ€…‰ł
Lisa Goldblatt Grace 
Parent and Social Worker, Boston, Massachusetts
Over 90 percent of parents and teens support sex education in both middle and high school Š 
 and Planned Parenthood is the largest provider of sex education in the United States, reaching 
1.5 million young people and parents in 2014. This year, Planned Parenthood League of 

Massachusetts completed a rigorous research study showing that students who received their 

middle school curriculum, 
Get Real: Comprehensive Sex Education That Works
, waited until 
they were older to have sex. As a result, the program has been placed on the U.S. Department 

of Health and Human Services Teen Pregnancy Prevention Evidence Review, a listing of 

programs showing evidence of effectiveness in reducing teen pregnancy, sexually transmitted 

infections, and associated sexual risk behaviors. 
Get Real
 is widely used across the United 

States in over 215 schools in 14 states. 
We also continued to provide innovative digital education for teens and young adults with 
an emphasis on meeting the needs of African American and Latino youth, who experience 



science of what helps young people to engage in healthy behaviors and what young people 

like to do online. Close to 350,000 youth have engaged with our teen apps and more than 

425,000 have used our decision-making tools for adults. 
Our Chat/Text program, reaching young people in moments of urgent need, is more popular 
than ever Š with over 500,000 conversations with live health educators to date. Teens who 

need an answer right away to an urgent question Š such as what to do if they need emergency 

contraception after unprotected sex Š only need to go as far as their phone or computer to 


 22  2014 Œ 2015 Annual Report
We showed how
 women™s health care intersects 
with civil rights.
 ˆ˝Planned Parenthood Federation of America and Planned Parenthood of Central North Carolina 
marched side by side with leaders of the Moral March movement in Raleigh, North Carolina, to 

protest the extreme efforts not only in North Carolina™s state legislature, but across the nation, 

to restrict fundamental human rights for people of color and low-income people.
To mark Black History Month, Planned Parenthood Action Fund celebrated the courageous 
leadership in the Black community that pushes our nation toward a more equal and just 

society. Planned Parenthood Action Fund highlighted 99 Dream Keepers Š one for each 

year since Planned Parenthood™s founding Š who have demonstrated that we are stronger 



¡Ava DuVernay
¡to the 
Reproductive Justice movement leadership of
¡Cherisse Scott,
 from the hard-hitting analysis 
of¡Jamilah Lemieux
¡to the gender-busting art and advocacy of
¡
These leaders 
inspire us to break down barriers to opportunity posed by poverty, racism, sexism, and 
oppression and to continue our work to end racial health disparities so that all communities 

are the healthiest they can be. 
 ˆ˙
We expanded 

 ˆ’For more than 40 years, Planned Parenthood Global has partnered with grassroots 
organizations to ensure that women, men, and young people in some of the world™s most 

neglected areas have access to the health care they need.


We piloted Global Mobile Š a joint effort by Planned Parenthood and the United Nations 
Population Fund (UNFPA) Š using mobile technology to connect young people around the 

world with health information and services.
In April, we supported a youth campaign in support of rights-based sex education in schools 
and provision of sexual and reproductive health services for all students.
And this summer, in Nicaragua, we supported a coalition that brought partners with expertise 
in strategic litigation together with media and communications experts, youth, and more. 

Together, they raised awareness about very early pregnancy and the need for safe abortion. 

Supported by social and traditional media, street actions, and coalition work, the campaign 

has garnered national and local radio and television coverage, and is shifting the climate 

around reproductive rights in the region.
 26  2014 Œ 2015 Annual Report
We worked to protect access to 
health insurance for everyone.
 ˆ‡The Affordable Care Act (ACA) has enabled more Americans than ever before to receive 
health insurance. But in 
King v. Burwell,
 this historic gain could have been wiped out. The 
U.S. Supreme Court decided whether or not to overturn a core component of the ACA which 

would have caused 4.1 million women in 34 states Š including 1.4 million women of color Š 
 to lose their health insurance subsidies, making their coverage unaffordable. 
The Court™s 6-3 ruling was a victory for low- and middle-income women and families, 
securely establishing that the ACA is woven into the fabric of our health care system. Planned 

Parenthood Federation of America and Planned Parenthood Action Fund led the way in 



to take away affordable coverage for millions of people, and it™s time to move on. 
Ž¤˘ˇ‰˚†ˇŸ•˘„‰˚
¥ˇ˘’ˇ…˚
˘…ƒ˚†˚‚˘……˚

‚ˇˇˇ…„˚†˚™ˇ’…˚‘˘˘

ˇ…€“˘“ˇ…

œ˘“˘‘‘˘…˘“ˇ‰˚

⁄˘‹˘˚„˘“˘ˇ

†˚…”“‹€˚˘…•˘˚

ˇˇ˘‰˚ˆ„‰ł
Delma L. 
23 Years Old, Austin, Texas
 ˆ—

ˆ‡˚–’˝…
˝š˝–—˜˝

‡˚–‡˚‡
š˝’–˝˙ˆ

…˝˚–’—…
’‡—–š—˚

ˆ–…˙’–˜’…
ˆˇ˘
š’˚–š…’˚¤†§
˚‡˚–——ˆ˚š
˚š
˙–ˆ˚—–˚˙…˛

˜˝ƒ˘“˛
˘˘˘
 ˆ…31%Contraception
13%Other Women™s 
 Health Services
7%Cancer Screening  
and Prevention
1% Other Services3%Abortion Services
45%
STI/STD Testing & Treatment
2014 
1 3. 
 A colposcopy examination aids in the diagnosis and treatment of abnormal 
growth cells in the cervix. LEEP and cryotherapy are treatments for abnormal 

growths.





procedures, evaluations for referral to specialists, authorization for hospital care, 

health assessments, and well-person/well-child preventive maintenance. Other 



include assessment and management of uncomplicated conditions related to 

the skin (e.g., acne, contact dermatitis, tinea corporis, etc.); the gastrointestinal 

system (e.g., diarrhea, gastroenteritis, irritable bowel syndrome, etc.); ear, eye, 

nose. throat, and respiratory system (e.g., bronchitis, conjunctivitis, sinusitis, 

etc.); medication management of previously evaluated controlled hypertension; 

and medication management of previously evaluated hypothyroidism.  
5. 
 Some examples in this category include WIC services (a federally funded  
nutrition program for low-income women, infants, and children up to the age  


6. 
 A service is a discrete clinical interaction, such as the administration of a 

physical exam or STI test or the provision of a birth control method. In 2014, 

Planned Parenthood health centers saw approximately two and a half million 

patients, collectively delivering nearly 10 million services during over four 
million clinical visits. 
      
 Oral
35.1%Other/Unknown19.7%Nonprescription Barrier
16.8%Progestin-Only Injectables
11.9%IUD6.9%Combined Hormone Ring
4.1%Contraceptive Implant
3.6%Combined Hormone Patch
2.0%(rounded to nearest tenth percent)
(PPFA, 2014)



10/01/13 - 09/30/14  2. 
 Reversible Contraceptive Methods, Women (percentage) chosen by Planned 
Parenthood Clients Receiving Contraceptive Services, 2014
 ˝˜
††˘
š˚¥
˝ƒ—˝˝ƒ—˜˜¥˘
˝˜ƒ˜˝˝¤†§˚˚¥
˘
˛˛˙–ˆ˚—–˚˙…˛

˚¥
˜
⁄˘
–˙˛§
˛˛ˆ–…˙’–˜’…˛


˚§
ˆ˘
˘
˝˘
˝˘
˝  682,208 −

˘
˘
˛˛˚–˚…˜–˙˜—˛

˘

⁄˘˚¥

˘˘
˘˚¥
—˛˛…’–‡’…˛†
š˛˛…–˙’’–’—ˆ˛ ˝˚

June 30, 2015
[All Amounts In Millions]

 National 

Eliminations 
[b]Total 
[a]AssetsCurrent Assets
719.183.7-22.6780.2
Property, Equipment, Endowment, Other713.9299.4-4.01,009.3

Total Assets
1,433.0383.1-26.61,789.5
Liabilities & Net Assets

Current Liabilities
127.652.1-22.6157.1
Mortgages, Notes Payable, Other
105.046.6-4.0147.6
Total Liabilities
232.698.7-26.6304.7
Net Assets
Unrestricted
515.8118.6
634.4Property & Equipment, Net
381.324.3
405.6Temporarily Restricted
130.7115.7
246.4Permanently Restricted
172.625.8
198.4Total Net Assets
1,200.4284.4
1,484.8Total Liabilities & Net Assets
1,433.0 383.1-26.61,789.5
˜˙ ˝ˆ
Combined Revenue and Expenses: 

Revenue
Expenses43%
Government Health Services 

Grants & Reimbursements
6%Other27%Private Contributions 
and Bequests24%Non-Government  
Health Services  
Revenue
18%Non-Medical  
Program Services
13%Management and  
General Support
5%Fundraising
64%
Medical Services ˝˝Combined Statement of Revenue, 
 Expenses & Changes in Net Assets:


 National 

Eliminations 
[b]Total 
[a]Revenue
Non-Government Health Services Revenue309.2
309.2Government Health Services Grants  

& Reimbursements
553.7553.7[c]
Private Contributions and Bequests
218.5201.2-66.2353.5[d]

16.9-16.9
0.0Other Operating Revenue
65.214.5
79.7Total Revenue
1,146.6232.6-83.11,296.1
For The Year Ended June 30, 2015

Operating & Other Funds

[All Amounts In Millions]
Our broad base of committed donors provides approximately 87 percent 


evidence of our powerful grassroots support. 
Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc., is a tax-exempt corporation 
under Internal Revenue Code section 501(c)(3) and is not a private foundation 

(Tax ID #13-1644147). Contributions are tax deductible to the fullest extent 






A list of all organizations that received contributions from PPFA during 
the year that ended June 30, 2015, may be obtained by writing to PPFA, 



available on the PPFA website.

Federation of America, Inc., Planned Parenthood Action Fund, Inc. 
(including its related organizations, the Planned Parenthood Federal 

PAC, Planned Parenthood Votes, and Community Outreach Group, LLC), 







during 2014.
have been eliminated. These include dues and rebates. Related 

adjustments have been made to the balance sheet.[c]  The report groups revenue by source (either government or non-
government) rather than the manner of disbursement (income versus 

grants and contracts). Payments from Medicaid managed care plans are 

listed as ﬁGovernment Health Services Grants and Reimbursementsﬂ to 


[d]  Includes foundation grants, corporate contributions, and support from 
more than 518,000 active individual contributors. This also includes  

$53.8 million of bequests.
[e]  Expenses do not include capitalized expenditures for property, plant, and 
equipment and repayment of related loans, but do include depreciation 

and amortization of such property, plant, and equipment and interest 

expense on such loans.

 ˝˙

 National 

Eliminations 
[b]Total 
[a]ExpensesDomestic Programs
A. Medical Services
782.3782.3B. Sexuality Education
48.348.3C. Public Policy
39.339.3D. Engage Communities
9.116.7-3.022.8
E. Increase Access
130.8-52.478.4
F. Build Advocacy Capacity
33.1-9.423.7
G. Renew Leadership
4.1-0.6
3.5H. Refresh Our Brand
4.6-0.8
3.8Total Program Services
879.0189.3-66.21,002.1
Supporting Services
A. 
 Management and General
145.019.4
164.4B. Fundraising
41.326.3
67.6Total Supporting Services
186.345.7
232.0Other ExpensesA. Payments to Related Organizations19.1
-16.92.2B. Non-Program Related
1.01.0Total Other Expenses
20.1-16.93.2Total Expenses
1,085.4235.0-83.11,237.3[e]
Excess of Revenue Over Expenses
61.2-2.4
58.8Other Changes In Net Assets
2.1-0.2
1.9Net Assets: Beginning of Year
1,137.1287.0
1,424.1Net Assets: End of Year
 1,200.4 284.4
1,484.8For The Year Ended June 30, 2015
Operating & Other Funds

[All Amounts In Millions]
 ˝’Planned Parenthood Federation of America 
Board of Directors 2015-2016
ChairJill LaferVice ChairNaomi AberlyTreasurer
Michael NewtonSecretary
Veronica Dela Rosa
Members
Dharma E. Cortés 

Stephen DeBerry

Juanita (Nita) Francis

Colleen Foster

Linda Gruber
Cathy Hampton

Maryana Iskander

Kate Jhaveri

Dr. Paula Johnson

David Karp

Mini Krishnan
Maria Theresa Kumar

Ken Lambrecht
Diane Max
Rev. Timothy McDonald

Alexis McGill Johnson

Laura Meyers

Margot Milliken

Donya Nasser
Kimberly Olson
Anna Quindlen
Nathalie Rayes

Dale Reiss

Joe Solmonese
Dayle Steinberg

Judy Tabar
Planned Parenthood Action Fund 

Board of Directors 2015-2016
ChairLaura Tucker
Vice ChairMichael Vachon
Treasurer
Julianna SmootSecretary
Kiki McLean
Members
Naomi Aberly
Phillip Agnew
Lori Carpentier

Stacy Cross

Gov. Jim Doyle*

Joanne EgermanAlexis McGill Johnson

Kim Molstre

Donya Nasser
Timothy Stanley

Sen. Nina Turner

Urvashi Vaid
˜’˘˘
* Honorary Director
 ˝š

President
 Cecile Richards



Dawn Laguens
 Melvin GallowayExecutive Vice President, 
 Health Care 
Kim Custer
Tom Subak

Raegan McDonald-Mosley, M.D., M.P.H, FACOG


Jethro Miller

Debra Alligood White

Wallace D™Souza

Dannette Hill

 Planned Parenthood Global 

Latanya Mapp Frett
Vice Presidents & Senior Leaders
Vice President, Health Care Innovation
Jill Balderson
Vanessa Cullins, M.D., M.P.H., M.B.A. 
Vice President, Planned Parenthood Experience
Molly Eagan
Rebecca Epstein
Vice President, Communications 
Eric Ferrero
Vice President, Education
Leslie Kantor, Ph.D.
Vice President, Health Outcomes  



Katie Magill

 Dana Singiser Senior Medical Advisor 
Carolyn Westhoff, M.D.

Rebecca Willett
President/Chairperson

Naomi Seboni, Ph.D.
Treasurer

Sujatha Natarajan


Tewodros Melesse
Planned Parenthood Federation of America is a founding member of the International Planned 

Parenthood Federation (IPPF), which is comprised of Member Associations working in 170 countries. 

IPPF™s Governing Council has 24 members representing each global region.
 ˝‡“˘˘
Planned Parenthood Health
 facebook.com/PlannedParenthood
 @PPFA (twitter.com/PPFA)
  @PlannedParenthood 
(instagram.com/plannedparenthood)
 plannedparenthood.tumblr.com
 youtube.com/plannedparenthood
Planned Parenthood Global
  @ppglobe (twitter.com/ppglobe)
 genhealth.tumblr.com
Planned Parenthood Action
 facebook.com/PlannedParenthoodAction
 @PPact (twitter.com/ppact)
 @ppact (instagram.com/ppact)
 ppaction.tumblr.com
 pinterest.com/ppaction
Latinos for Planned Parenthood
 facebook.com/PlannedParenthoodEspanol
 @latinos4pp (twitter.com/latinos4pp)
Planned Parenthood Black Community
 @PPBlackComm (twitter.com/ppblackcomm)
Planned Parenthood Generation Action
 facebook.com/PlannedParenthoodYouth
 @PPGenAction (twitter.com/ppgenaction)
 @PPGenAction (instagram.com/ppgenaction)
˜˚˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˜
˜š 