Jump to navigation             Matador pierced in throat and tongue by bull 'recovering well'  A Spanish matador who suffered a horrific goring when a bull's horn ripped through his throat, pierced his tongue and smashed his palate last week has made an amazing recovery.
 24 May 2010 • 17:37 pm                         Spanish bullfighter Julio Aparicio is gored in the throat by his first bull during the San Isidro Fair bullfight at Las Ventas Arena, in Madrid  Credit: Photo: EFE/Gustavo Cuevas          Julio Aparicio, 41, was wounded on Friday evening during a bullfight at Madrid's Las Ventas bullring.
 The half-ton bull caught the torero under his chin after he lost his footing and stumbled while executing a pass with his red cape at the Spanish capital's packed bullring.
 The horn of the animal tore into the bullfighter's throat and emerged through his mouth in a dramatic goring on Friday evening that had the crowd screaming in horror.
 The pink-stockinged, sequined matador was lifted into the air and then dropped to the sand.
 The bull backed away after it was distracted by fellow matadors who dashed to the rescue.
 Mr Aparicio struggled to his feet, staggered a few yards, spluttering blood and was then carried from the ring and into the medical ward at the Las Ventas arena.
 He was initially treated at the ring's emergency medical unit, then transferred to the city's October 12th Hospital where he underwent a six-hour operation.
 On Monday he was moved out of the intensive care unit and the October 12th Hospital said in a statement that Mr Aparicio's condition was "evolving favourably" and that his prognosis was "less serious".
 Most major bullrings in Spain and abroad are equipped with top flight teams of surgeons, traumatologists and anaesthetists.
 Smaller bullrings are obliged to have ambulances on standby during fights.
 Improved medical treatment over the years has cut down the number of deaths by gorings.
 The last matador to die from a goring in Spain was Jose Cubero Sanchez "Yiyo" in 1985.
