State approves 49 road, bridge projects funded by stimulus By Patrick Marley of the Journal Sentinel Published on: 3/17/2009  Madison - Lawmakers on Tuesday approved $42.4 million in road and bridge work using federal stimulus money, but none of the funds will go to Milwaukee.The state is focusing on the projects it can do right away because of use-it-or-lose-it provisions in the economic stimulus package Congress passed last month.The 16-0 vote by the Legislature's Joint Finance Committee cleared the way for the work to begin, because the Senate and Assembly do not have to also approve the projects.
 Bids will go out as early as April 28.Tuesday's vote was the first release of federal stimulus cash for local transportation projects.In total, the state is getting $529 million in aid for roads and bridges.
 Legislators earlier approved spending $298.7 million for state highway projects, including $97.6 million to reconstruct and expand I-94 south of Milwaukee.The first wave of projects will begin this spring and continue through fall.
 Another round of projects will begin next year.With Tuesday's approval of another $42.4 million in road and bridge projects, $187.9 million remains to be allocated.
 That potentially will set off a fight over which projects are funded.Sen.
 Judy Robson (D-Beloit) said 20 counties have not had any local projects designated for federal cash so far, while other counties are in line for up to seven projects each.Local government officials should "ramp up (projects) really fast" to qualify for the next round of funding, Robson said.Rep.
 Mark Pocan (D-Madison) said 95% of projects requested by local government officials didn't qualify for federal funding, which emphasized projects in regions with higher unemployment.The 49 projects approved Tuesday meet the federal criteria and will create construction jobs immediately, said Pocan, committee co-chairman.
 Soon, he said, "we're going to get a whole bunch of new (proposed) projects.
 "Republican Rep. Robin Vos of Racine said the full committee vote showed why an earlier proposed approval process, which would have allowed the two committee co-chairs to approve stimulus spending, was not workable.Federal formulas guarantee that the Milwaukee area will get $38.7 million for road and bridge work, as part of a total $158 million dedicated to local projects.
 Madison will get $9.8 million and western Kenosha County will get $586,000; other areas of the state will have to compete for the remaining money.Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett expects the city's list of projects for local road repairs will easily exceed the $38.7 million now earmarked for the city.
 He worries that officials in other areas of the state will argue that the money directed to the I-94 work should be considered part of the city's share of the total stimulus pie.
 "Don't tell me that's going for our priorities, when I didn't want that road widened," Barrett said.He and other city officials opposed the plan to expand the freeway from six lanes to eight, and argued that the $200 million the expansion added to the reconstruction project's cost should have been used to help cities repair local streets.
 "I am very intent on spending these dollars in a responsible fashion, improving our infrastructure and putting people to work," Barrett said.City streets need workThe need for repairs to Milwaukee streets is evident, even after the city allocated more than $24 million to the effort in the past four years, and included another $10.3 million in the 2009 budget.An analysis by the Journal Sentinel found that more than half the city's streets have gone four decades or longer without repaving and nearly 20% of local streets are beyond their intended life spans.Transit advocates also have begun to clamor for a bigger share of the federal stimulus dollars, beyond the $81.6 million designated for transit in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.Bruce Speight, an advocate with the Wisconsin Public Interest Research Group, said the governor and the Department of Transportation have been misguided in restricting allocations from the $529 million to highway, road and bridge projects.They push for a share to be spent on mass transit improvements that also could be completed within the short time frame required by the federal act.
 "It's not news to anyone that our transit systems have huge repair needs," Speight said.The Joint Finance Committee approved 49 projects.
 The only one in Milwaukee County is the River Road bridge in River Hills.State DOT officials said those projects are ready to go and that all parts of the state will ultimately benefit from stimulus money.
 They said the projects approved Tuesday could start shortly, unlike many others that need additional prep work.
