Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                  Hand Hygiene in Healthcare Settings             Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                         Fire Safety and Alcohol-Based Hand Sanitizer (ABHS)Hand Hygiene and Fire Safety in Healthcare Facilities Go Hand in Hand     Minus     Related Pages       On This Page  Ensure fire safety when ABHS is usedFollow local and state fire safety laws and standardsAdhere to the the Life Safety CodeWork with your local fire officialTable 1.
 NFPA 101 Life Safety Code Requirements for the use of ABHS DispensersReferences   Hand hygiene is a critically important prevention measure in all healthcare settings.
 Each year between 1 and 3 million residents of nursing homes or skilled nursing facilities develop healthcare acquired infections and as many as 380,000 people die of these infections.1 Among hospitalized patients, on any given day, about 1 in 31 has an healthcare-associated infection.2 Alcohol-based hand sanitizer (ABHS) effectively kills most germs carried on the hands of healthcare workers and is recommended for use by the CDC.
 Ensure fire safety when ABHS is usedABHS contains ethyl alcohol, which readily evaporates at room temperature into an ignitable vapor, and is considered a flammable liquid.
 Although the incidence of fires related to ABHS is very low, it is vital that ABHS is stored safely and that bulk dispensers are installed and maintained correctly.
 Follow local and state fire safety laws and standardsBuilding officers, local, and state fire marshals work together to protect patients and residents by enforcing fire safety rules.
 Fire safety includes activities that  reduce sources of ignition, ensures storage of flammable liquids in a safe manner, and establishes methods for quick exits in case of fire.
 Building officers and local fire marshal may work together to make sure ABHS dispensers are accessible and in locations that do not increase the chances of igniting or spreading a fire.
 Adhere to the the Life Safety CodeAdherence to the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Life Safety Code 101 was adopted by CMS as a minimum fire safety requirement for facilities that receive Medicaid or Medicare reimbursement.
 The Life Safety Code contains national standards for the storage of ABHS, as well as placement and function of dispensers.
 When facilities use ABHS all of the criteria listed in Table 1 must be met.
 Hand Hygiene and Fire Safety in Healthcare Facilities pdf icon[PDF – 2 pages]    The Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS) requires healthcare facilities to follow the Life Safety Code.
 Top of PageWork with your local fire officialHealthcare facilities may contact their local fire officials to ensure that requirements related to the installation of ABHS have been met.
 Local fire officials often inspect commercial buildings, and may be required to do so.
 In healthcare facilities, they may be very receptive to planning these tours to meet their requirement, refresh their familiarity with the structure, and identify vulnerabilities.
 There are several advantages to the healthcare facilities initiating the request of such a tour including building relationships and demonstrating a commitment to safety.
 Top of PageTable 1.
 NFPA 101 Life Safety Code Requirements for the use of ABHS Dispensers  Criteria for NFPA 101 Life Safety Code Requirements for the use of ABHS Dispensers   Criteria Requirement     Hand rub solution Must not exceed 95% alcohol content by volume.
 (The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that ABHS contain at least 60% alcohol.)
 Maximum dispenser fluid capacity 1.2 liters (41 ounces, 0.32 gal) for dispensers in rooms, corridors, and areas open to corridors.
 2.0 liters (67 ounces, 0.53 gal) for dispensers in suites of rooms separated from corridors.
 Maximum quantity in aerosol containers 18 oz., limited to Level 1 aerosols as defined by NPFA 30 B.
 Maximum quantity of ABHS allowed in-use (i.e., in dispensers) Ten gallons (37.8 L) in-use outside of a storage cabinet within a single smoke compartment.
 (Smoke compartment: A space within a building enclosed by smoke barriers on all sides, including the top and bottom.5) One dispenser per room off corridors is NOT included in the calculation.
 Minimum corridor width Six feet (1830 mm) wide   ABHS dispenser distance from ignition sources One-inch (25 mm) distance (horizontal or vertical) above, to the side, or beneath an ignition source.
 (Sources of ignition: Appliances or equipment that, because of their intended modes of use or operation, are capable of providing sufficient thermal energy to ignite flammable gas-air mixtures.5 Examples include wall outlets, thermostats, and appliances.)
 Note: While one-inch is acceptable, a more conservative approach is to ensure a distance of no less than 6 inches (12.7 mm; horizontal or vertical, measured from the center of the dispenser) between ABHR dispensers and source of ignition.
 ABHS dispenser separation Horizontal spacing not less than 48 inches (1220 mm).
 Carpeted areas The smoke compartment must be equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system.
 Operation of the dispenser  The dispenser shall:   Not release its contents except when the dispenser is activated, either manually or automatically by touch-free activation.
 Not dispense more solution than the amount required for hand hygiene consistent with label instructions.
 Be designed, constructed and operated in a manner that ensures accidental or malicious activation is minimized.
 Be tested in accordance with the manufacturer’s care and use instructions each time a new refill is installed.
 Any activation of the dispenser shall only occur when an object is placed within 4 inches (100mm) of the sensor.
 An object placed within the activation zone and left in place shall not cause more than one activation.
 Storage outside of dispensers In each smoke compartment, do not store outside of dispensers more than 5 gal (18.9 L) or an amount of ABHR that exceeds that which is necessary for normal maintenance of the area, whichever is less.
 Maximum quantity for storage in a warehouse Up to 120 gal (460 L).
 If need to exceed storage of 120 gal (460 L), consult with fire official.4     *Smoke compartment: A space within a building enclosed by smoke barriers on all sides, including the top and bottom.5 **Sources of ignition: Appliances or equipment that, because of their intended modes of use or operation, are capable of providing sufficient thermal energy to ignite flammable gas-air mixtures.5 Examples include wall outlets, thermostats, and appliances.
 Top of PageReferences Nursing Homes and Assisted Living (Long-term Care Facilities [LTCFs]) HAI Data National Fire Protection Association (NFPA).
 NFPA 101 Life Safety Codeexternal icon.
 2018 edition.
 Quincy, MA: National Fire Protection Association; 2018.
 NFPA 30 Flammable and Combustible Liquids Codeexternal icon.
 2018 edition.
 Quincy, MA: National Fire Protection Association, 2018.
 Available at NFPA Glossary of Terms [PDF – 2052 pages]external icon.
 Updated February 2019.
 Accessed February 14, 2019.
 Top of Page          
 						Page last reviewed: April 29, 2019 Content source: 	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion (DHQP)          home Hand Hygiene in Healthcare Settings    Healthcare Providersplus icon  Guidance Education Courses   Patients  Show Me the Scienceplus icon  Hand Hygiene Research   Fire Safety  Clean Hands Count Campaignplus icon  Promotional Materials   Media and Social Mediaplus icon  Provider: Clean Hands Count Provider: Know How Germs Spread Provider: Alcohol-based Hand Sanitizer Provider: Technique Matters Provider: C. diff Requires Special Care Provider: Gloves Are Not Enough Patient: Clean Hands Count Patient: It’s Okay To Speak Up Patient: Protect Yourself Patient: Clean Hands Count For C. difficile   Hand Hygiene Through the Years (Archive) Related Resources       See the CDC Handwashing: Clean Hands Save Lives website to learn about handwashing in community settings.
 Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:  Email Address  What's this?
 Submit             HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
