Skip to main content             Toggle Search        Search NREL.gov  Search                Grid Modernization    Menu     Research   Research  Integrated Devices &amp; Systems Sensing, Measurement, &amp; Forecasting Power Systems Operations &amp; Control Power Systems Design &amp; Studies Security &amp; Resilience Institutional Support   Publications Data &amp; Tools   Data &amp; Tools  OptGrid Modeling Tools Solar Integration Data Sets Wind Integration Data Sets Solar Resource Data &amp; Tools   Facilities Work with Us            » Grid Modernization » Western Wind and Solar Integration Study             Western Wind and Solar Integration Study Can we integrate large amounts of wind and solar energy into the electric power system      of the West?
 That's the question explored by the Western Wind and Solar Integration      Study, one of the largest such regional studies to date.
 Phase 1 Research During its first phase, the Western Wind and Solar Integration Study (WWSIS) investigated      the benefits and challenges of integrating up to 35% wind and solar energy in the      WestConnect subregion and, more broadly, the Western Interconnection, in 2017.
 The      study showed that it is operationally possible to accommodate 30% wind and 5% solar      energy if utilities substantially increase their coordination of operations over wider      geographic areas and schedule their generation and interchanges on an intra-hour basis.
 What We Learned  The integration of 35% wind and solar energy into the electric power system will not       require extensive infrastructure if changes are made to operational practices.
 Wind and solar energy displace fossil fuels.
 A 35% penetration of solar and wind power       would reduce fuel costs by 40% and carbon emissions by 25%–45%—the rough equivalent       of taking 22–36 million cars off the road—compared to today's system.
 Scheduling generation and interchanges subhourly reduces the need for fast reserves.
 Using wind and solar forecasts in utility operations reduces operating costs by up       to 14%.
 Existing transmission capacity can be better used.
 This will reduce new transmission       needs.
 Demand response programs can provide flexibility that enables the electric power system       to more easily integrate wind and solar and may be cheaper than alternatives.
 Phase 1 Publications Western Wind and Solar Integration Study: Executive Summary  Western Wind and Solar Integration Study  How Do High Levels of Wind and Solar Impact the Grid?
 The Western Wind and Solar Integration       Study  Value of Wind Power Forecasting  Impact of High Solar Penetration in the Western Interconnection  Impact of High Wind Power Penetration on Hydroelectric Unit Operations in the WWSIS        Development of Regional Wind Resource and Wind Plant Output Datasets  Phase 2 Research Phase 2 of WWSIS was initiated to determine the wear-and-tear costs and emissions      impacts of cycling and to simulate grid operations to investigate the detailed impacts      of wind and solar power on the fossil-fueled fleet in the West.
 What We Learned  The negative impact of cycling on overall plant emissions is relatively small.
 In the high wind and solar scenario, net carbon emissions were reduced by one-third.
 From a system perspective, these increased costs are relatively small compared to       the fuel savings associated with wind and solar generation.
 Phase 2 Publications Western Wind and Solar Integration Study Phase 2: Executive Summary  Western Wind and Solar Integration Study Phase 2 General Fact Sheet Technical Fact Sheet Impacts of Wind and Solar on Fossil-Fueled Generators Power Plant Cycling Costs Analysis of Cycling Costs in Western Wind and Solar Integration Study  Phase 3 Research Phase 3 of WWSIS investigated the dynamic performance of the Western Interconnection      in the fractions of 1 second to 1 minute following a large disturbance (e.g., loss      of a large power plant or a major transmission line) with high penetrations of renewable      energy.
 Conducted by NREL and GE Energy Consulting, the study focused on large-scale      frequency response and transient stability.
 Both are critical to grid reliability,      particularly for the Western Interconnection, which has a long history of dynamic      performance constraints on its operation.
 What We Learned  With good system planning, sound engineering practices, and commercially available       technologies, the Western Interconnection can withstand the crucial first minute after       severe grid disturbances with high penetrations of wind and solar on the grid.
 Adequate frequency response in the Western Interconnection was maintained for the       conditions studied.
 Selected nontraditional frequency-responsive controls on wind and solar power plants       and energy storage were examined and could improve frequency response.
 The transient stability of the system is not fundamentally changed by high wind and       solar generation.
 This does not mean that the system behaves identically.
 There is,       however, nothing to indicate that the system dynamics have changed so fundamentally       that radically different means to ensure stability are required.
 Phase 3 Publications Western Wind and Solar Integration Study Phase 3: Executive Summary Western Wind and Solar Integration Study Phase 3 General Fact Sheet Technical Fact Sheet Phase 3A Report on Low Levels of Synchronous Generation Contact Adarsh Nagarajan Group Manager adarsh.nagarajan@nrel.gov 303-275-4585       Integrated Devices &amp; Systems  Advanced Power Electronics &amp; Smart Inverters Generation &amp; Storage Models Microgrids Grid Simulation &amp; Power Hardware-in-the-Loop Standards &amp; Codes   Sensing, Measurement, &amp; Forecasting  Solar Measurement &amp; Modeling Wind Sensing &amp; Modeling Solar &amp; Wind Forecasting Load Modeling &amp; Forecasting   Power Systems Operations &amp; Controls  Home &amp; Building Energy Management Systems Microgrid Controls Distributed Optimization &amp; Control Advanced Distribution Management Systems Autonomous Energy Grids   Power Systems Design &amp; Studies  Distribution Integration Transmission Integration Transient &amp; Dynamic Stability Analysis Power Market Design Integrated Energy System Simulation SMART-DS   Security &amp; Resilience Institutional Support    OptGrid Modeling Tools  Flexible Energy Scheduling Tool for Integrating Variable Generation Preconfiguring &amp; Controlling Inverter Set-Points Tool   Solar Integration Data Sets  Solar Power Data for Integration Studies Solar Integration National Dataset Toolkit   Wind Integration Data Sets  Eastern &amp; Western Data Sets  Eastern Wind Data Set Western Wind Data Set   Wind Integration National Dataset Toolkit   Solar Resource Data &amp; Tools             Share 			            Home       Research      Advanced Manufacturing Bioenergy Buildings Chemistry and Nanoscience Computational Science Energy Analysis     Energy Storage Energy Systems Integration Facility Geothermal Grid Modernization Hydrogen and Fuel Cells     Materials Science Solar Transportation Water Wind       Follow NREL                       The National Renewable Energy Laboratory is a national laboratory        of the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy,        operated by the Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC.
