Skip to main content          NBER: National Bureau of Economic Research      Subscribe Media Open Calls       Login                            Login                Close      Search              Research    EXPLORE Research   Findings   Working Papers   Books &amp; Chapters   Lectures   Interviews     Periodicals   The Digest   The Reporter   The Bulletin on Retirement and Disability   The Bulletin on Health   Periodicals Archive     Data &amp; Business Cycles   Boston Research Data Center   Business Cycle Dating   Public Use Data Archive     Topics   COVID-19   US-China Trade   Energy   Entrepreneurship   Growth and Productivity         Programs &amp; Projects    EXPLORE Programs &amp; Projects   Programs   Economics of Aging   Asset Pricing   Children   Corporate Finance   Development Economics   Development of the American Economy   Economic Fluctuations and Growth   Economics of Education   Environment and Energy Economics   Health Care   Health Economics   Industrial Organization   International Finance and Macroeconomics   International Trade and Investment   Labor Studies   Law and Economics   Monetary Economics   Political Economy   Productivity, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship   Public Economics     Working Groups   Behavioral Finance   Chinese Economy    Cohort Studies    Economics of Crime   Entrepreneurship   Household Finance   Innovation Policy   Insurance   Market Design   Organizational Economics   Personnel Economics   Risks of Financial Institutions    Urban Economics     Projects &amp; Centers   Center for Aging and Health Research   Conference on Econometrics and Mathematical Economics   Conference on Research in Income and Wealth   Economics of Digitization   Gender in the Economy Study Group   Illinois Workplace Wellness   Improving Health Outcomes for an Aging Population   Macroeconomics Annual   Measuring the Clinical and Economic Outcomes Associated with Delivery Systems   Oregon Health Insurance Experiment   Retirement and Disability Research Center   The Roybal Center for Behavior Change in Health   Satellite National Health Accounts   Science of Science Funding   Training Program in Aging and Health Economics   Transportation Economics in the 21st Century   Union Army Data &amp; Early Indicators   Value of Medical Research   Women Working Longer         Conferences   Affiliated Scholars   NBER News    EXPLORE NBER News   Research in the News   Nobel Laureates   Featured Working Papers Archive       Career Resources    EXPLORE Career Resources   RA Positions – not at the NBER   Calls for Fellowship Applications   PhD Candidates in Economics       About    EXPLORE About   Leadership &amp; Governance   Support &amp; Funding   History   Standards of Conduct   Privacy Policy   Staff   Employment Opportunities at NBER           Subscribe Media Open Calls        Search                   Home   Research   Working Papers          Recessions, Healthy No More?
 Recessions, Healthy No More?
 Christopher J. Ruhm     Share  Twitter      LinkedIn      Email          ID 19287    DOI 10.3386/w19287    Issue Date August 2013        Using data from multiple sources, over the 1976-2009 period, I show that total mortality has shifted over time from strongly procyclical to being essentially unrelated to macroeconomic conditions.
 The relationship also shows some instability over time and is likely to be poorly measured when using short (less than 15 or 20 year) analysis periods.
 The secular change in the association between macroeconomic conditions and overall mortality primarily reflects trends in effects for specific causes of death, rather than changes in the composition of total mortality across causes.
 Deaths due to cardiovascular disease and transport accidents continue to be procyclical (although possibly less so than in the past), whereas strong countercyclical patterns of cancer fatalities and some external sources of death (particularly those due to accidental poisoning) have emerged over time.
 The changing effect of macroeconomic conditions on cancer deaths may partially reflect the increasing protective influence of financial resources, perhaps because these can be used to obtain sophisticated (and expensive) treatments that have become available in recent years.
 That observed for accidental poisoning probably has occurred because declines in mental health during economic downturns are increasingly associated with the use of prescribed or illicitly obtained medications that carry risks of fatal overdoses.
 The views expressed herein are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Bureau of Economic Research.
 Download Citation       MARC  RIS  BibTeΧ  Download Citation Data           Published Versions Ruhm, Christopher J., 2015.
 "Recessions, healthy no more?," Journal of Health Economics, Elsevier, vol.
 42(C), pages 17-28. citation courtesy of    Related   Topics MacroeconomicsBusiness CyclesHealth, Education, and WelfareHealth   Programs Economic Fluctuations and GrowthHealth CareHealth EconomicsPublic Economics     Mentioned in the News   How Losing a Job Can Be Bad for Your Health     December 23, 2014       Source:    The New York Times     Read the research     here.
 More from NBER In addition to working papers, the NBER disseminates affiliates’ latest findings through a range of free periodicals — the NBER Reporter, the NBER Digest, the Bulletin on Retirement and Disability, and the Bulletin on Health — as well as online conference reports, video lectures, and interviews.
 The Economics of Digitization    Article      Author:      Shane Greenstein   The NBER Economics of Digitization Project, established in 2010 with support from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation,...
 All Rights Reserved.
