Engadget              Login                             Home             Reviews             Gear             Gaming             Entertainment             Tomorrow             Audio             Video             Deals             Buyer's Guide                 Dads and Grads            Holiday Gift Guide            Fitness Tech            Home Entertainment            Personal Security            Back to School            Outdoor Tech            Parenting and Tech            Camera Guide            Best of CES            Phones            Laptops            View All                                             Log in             Sign up                                                                         Engadget       3 related articles                Login                            Sega sells its arcade business due to the COVID-19 pandemic            Apple's Macs, iPads and services offset weak quarterly iPhone sales            'Halo Infinite' director Chris Lee steps down amid production turmoil                    Latest in Gear                     The best outdoor speakers             04.19.20  View                 The best universal remote control             04.17.20  View                 The best USB Wi-Fi adapters             04.12.20  View                 How to buy a laptop for your kid (or revive an old one)             04.10.20  View            Image credit:          Amazon temporarily raises overtime pay for warehouse workers It hopes a boost will help it handle demand during the COVID-19 outbreak.
 In a statement to Reuters, the internet giant said it was raising overtime pay for US warehouse workers until May 9th.
 Staffers will get "double" their usual hourly rate for every hour past their standard shift.
 They previously received 50 percent more pay during overtime hours.
 The temporary pay hike could ensure that more workers agree to work overtime, or at least offer a consolation if they feel they have little choice but to stay longer.
 It comes on top of the company&apos;s plans to hire 100,000 additional workers and raise base pay by $2 through April.These are only fleeting increases, however, and don&apos;t address both new and longstanding concerns about working conditions at Amazon&apos;s facilities.
 The company has already had to deal with a coronavirus infection at a warehouse, and senators have raised alarms about the lack of standard paid sick leave and hazard pay.
 Amazon is promising up to two weeks of pay for anyone either diagnosed with COVID-19 or placed into quarantine, but that might not prevent an ill worker from showing up if they feel they can&apos;t afford time off.
 In this article:   amazon,    business,    coronavirus,    covid-19,    e-commerce,    gear,    internet,    shipping,    shopping,    warehouse      All products recommended by Engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company.
 Some of our stories include affiliate links.
 If you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission.
 In a statement to Reuters, the internet giant said it was raising overtime pay for US warehouse workers until May 9th.
 Staffers will get &quot;double&quot; their usual hourly rate for every hour past their standard shift.
 They previously received 50 percent more pay during overtime hours.
 \n The temporary pay hike could ensure that more workers agree to work overtime, or at least offer a consolation if they feel they have little choice but to stay longer.
 It comes on top of the company&apos;s plans to hire 100,000 additional workers and raise base pay by $2 through April.\n\nThese are only fleeting increases, however, and don&apos;t address both new and longstanding concerns about working conditions at Amazon&apos;s facilities.
 The company has already had to deal with a coronavirus infection at a warehouse, and senators have raised alarms about the lack of standard paid sick leave and hazard pay.
 Amazon is promising up to two weeks of pay for anyone either diagnosed with COVID-19 or placed into quarantine, but that might not prevent an ill worker from showing up if they feel they can&apos;t afford time off.
 Support          International     繁體中文 简体中文 日本版             Join Our Newsletter       Subscribe         Follow Us                                               © 2020 Verizon Media.
 All rights reserved.
 "d1z2jf7jlzjs58.cloudfront.net"     :"static.
