Publisher Gary Schwitzer and other contributors may post new articles periodically.
 But all of the 6,000+ articles we have published contain lessons to help you improve your critical thinking about health care interventions.
 And those will be still be alive on the site for a couple of years.
 Story Reviews News Release Review Blog Posts    6151 Posts 2616 Story Reviews 606 News Release Reviews 2929 Blog Posts   Home Story Reviews News Release Reviews Blog Podcasts About Us Editorial Team What We Review and How Review Criteria How Is the Star Score Determined?
 Our Comments Policy Accolades for HealthNewsReview.org Talks, Workshops &amp; Presentations Toolkit Tips for Analyzing Studies &amp; Health Care Claims Just for Journalists: Writing Tips Stories of Patient Harm from Misleading Media Pre-publication News Release Review Health News Watchdog podcasts News Sites &amp; Blogs We Like List of Industry-Independent Experts Links to Other Resources Contact    Menu               November 10, 2016 Read Original ReleaseObalon intragastric balloon PR release suffers from lack of context   Reviewed By Rating  Categories  Association/Society news release Tags  American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery, Obalon balloon, obesity  New Study Shows Balloon in a Capsule Helps Patients Lose Nearly Twice as Much Weight Than Diet, Exercise and Lifestyle Therapy Alone   Our Review SummaryObalon Balloon System.
 Screenshot from FDA recently approved medical devices web page.This news release about a weight loss device recently approved by the FDA provides a basic description of the results of a trial, but doesn’t put them into context.
 The Obalon intragastric balloon is very similar to other inflatable balloons that are placed in the stomachs of patients with obesity to help them limit food intake temporarily while they try to change their diets and lifestyle.
 The release fails to clearly explain that the main difference between the Obalon device and other balloons is that patients are not sedated during insertion.
 The release does not make clear that since the trial did not compare this device to others, there is no evidence about the relative performance of this product.
 The release does not tell readers that the manufacturer sponsored the trial.
 It does not point out that this sort of conference presentation is not put through the peer review process of a journal article.
 A HealthDay story on the device, also reviewed by HealthNewsReview.org, provided some details not found in the news release, including a mention that the results are preliminary and have not yet been peer reviewed and a brief discussion of harms.
 However, neither the news release or the news story shared that the study was sponsored by the device manufacturer.
 Why This MattersPeople who have obesty want to know not only how well an intervention helps them lose weight, but how long the benefits last and how they compare to other options.
 By neglecting to provide context, the release does not give readers a useful understanding of the trial results.
 Criteria  Does the news release adequately discuss the costs of the intervention?
 Not Satisfactory The release does not discuss costs.
 Although the manufacturer has not revealed the price it plans to charge in the U.S., the Obalon device is on the market in Europe and Mexico, where prices, including office procedures, range from $2,500 to $4,000.
 It should be noted that prices for medical devices in the US are generally higher than those charged in other countries.
 Does the news release adequately quantify the benefits of the treatment/test/product/procedure?
 Satisfactory We will give the release a satisfactory rating because it notes that after one year patients receiving the Obalon balloon and counseling had lost about 7 percent of their total body weight (or about a quarter of their “excess” weight) compared to a bit less than 4 percent total weight loss for those given a sham balloon and counseling.
 However, since other intragastric balloons are already on the market, most people would want to know how the Obalon device compares.
 The release should have noted that because the trial did not include competing devices, there is no evidence that indicates whether the new device is any better or worse than other devices.
 Does the news release adequately explain/quantify the harms of the intervention?
 Not Satisfactory Although the release reports that one trial participant had a gastric ulcer and almost all reported mild to moderate cramping and nausea, the release doesn’t warn readers that this sort of balloon could cause serious, even fatal, complications including esophageal tears, intestinal blockages that require surgery, life threatening allergic reactions, heart attack, cardiac arrest or airway blockage.
 The FDA approved a package insert that lists these potential risks (see page 11 of the Patient Labeling).
 The release should have also mentioned the most important risks.
 Does the news release seem to grasp the quality of the evidence?
 Not Satisfactory The release describes key aspects of the randomized, sham-controlled trial.
 However, here again, readers should be told that the study did not compare the Obalon device to other intragastric balloons or other obesity treatments, so it does not provide any evidence with which to compare treatment options.
 The release commits a serious omission by failing to alert readers that because the release is based on a conference presentation, the study report has not been subject to the type of peer review and editorial standards required of research articles accepted by major journals.
 The lack of detail in the conference abstract raises important questions about the trial, and the news release leaves them unanswered.
 Does the news release commit disease-mongering?
 Satisfactory The release does not engage in disease mongering.
 Instead, it notes that the Obalon device was tested on people with a BMI of 30 or higher.
 Also, a quote talks about the device being offered to people “who otherwise would not seek treatment or not have as good a result with diet and exercise alone.” Does the news release identify funding sources &amp; disclose conflicts of interest?
 Not Satisfactory The release fails to report that the manufacturer, Obalon Therapeutics, was responsible for the trial or that the “Study Chair” listed on ClinicalTrials.gov is a company employee.
 Does the news release compare the new approach with existing alternatives?
 Not Satisfactory The release tells readers that the trial results indicate the balloon and counseling were more effective than lifestyle counseling alone.
 It also says that bariatric surgery is the most effective obesity treatment and it does refer to “other intragastric balloons.” However, these vague references to alternatives do not provide readers meaningful information, especially since the release never specifically notes that the trial did not compare this balloon to other similar devices.
 It’s worth noting that behavioral weight management programs generally result in 5-10 percent weight losses at 6 months to 1 year.
 When comparing Look AHEAD’s (a lifestyle intervention program) one year data, average weight loss was greater than achieved with Obalon at 8.6 percent.
 Does the news release establish the availability of the treatment/test/product/procedure?
 Satisfactory The release says that the Obalon device was approved by the FDA in September, so readers might be able to guess that it will be available in the U.S. relatively soon.
 The release could have noted that the manufacturer will start selling it in this country in January 2017, and that it has been on the market in Europe and other countries for almost three years.
 Does the news release establish the true novelty of the approach?
 Not Satisfactory By omitting any details about the difference between the Obalon device and similar intragastric balloons, it is impossible for readers to know what is new about this device.
 The release could have noted that while the Obalon device is swallowed without an endoscopic procedure or sedation, the ReShape and Orbera balloons require endoscopic placement under mild sedation, and that all three devices require endoscopic removal.
 Also, it could have told readers that the Elipse brand balloon, which is available in Europe, is swallowed and then eventually excreted, so it normally does not require any endoscopic procedures.
 Does the news release include unjustifiable, sensational language, including in the quotes of researchers?
 Satisfactory The release doesn’t rely on sensational language.
 However, it could mislead some readers about the devices benefits and soft-pedal its potential harms through this quote: “The significant weight loss achieved with the Obalon 6-Month Balloon System is maintained at 12 months,” said Aurora Pryor, MD, study co-author and Chief Bariatric, Foregut and Advanced GI Surgery, Stony Brook University.
 “This combination of lifestyle modification and balloon therapy provides a new low risk option for patients struggling with obesity.” Total Score: 4 of 10 Satisfactory  You might also like   ASCO offers a positive spin on cancer drug survival stats while downplaying severe side effects Small study in mice wrongly claimed to advance human alcoholism treatment It's all in the details, and this summary of nonsurgical treatments for knee osteoarthritis left them out  Comments Please note, comments are no longer published through this website.
 All previously made comments are still archived and available for viewing through select posts.
 × Our Comments Policy We welcome comments, which users can leave at the end of any of our systematic story reviews or at the end of any of our blog posts.
 But before leaving a comment, please review these notes about our policy.
 You are responsible for any comments you leave on this site.
 This site is primarily a forum for discussion about the quality (or lack thereof) in journalism or other media messages (advertising, marketing, public relations, medical journals, etc.)
 It is not intended to be a forum for definitive discussions about medicine or science.
 We will delete comments that include personal attacks, unfounded allegations, unverified claims, product pitches, profanity or any from anyone who does not list a full name and a functioning email address.
 We will also end any thread of repetitive comments.
 We don”t give medical advice so we won”t respond to questions asking for it.
 We don”t have sufficient staffing to contact each commenter who left such a message.
 If you have a question about why your comment was edited or removed, you can email us at feedback@healthnewsreview.org.
 There has been a recent burst of attention to troubles with many comments left on science and science news/communication websites.
 Read “Online science comments:  trolls, trash and treasure.” The authors of the Retraction Watch comments policy urge commenters: “Shed light, not just heat.
 Facts, challenges, disagreements, corrections — those are all fine.
 Attacking the person, instead of the idea or the interpretation, is neither acceptable nor helpful.” We”re also concerned about anonymous comments.
 We ask that all commenters leave their full name and provide an actual email address in case we feel we need to contact them.
 We may delete any comment left by someone who does not leave their name and a legitimate email address.
 And, as noted, product pitches of any sort – pushing treatments, tests, products, procedures, physicians, medical centers, books, websites – are likely to be deleted.
 We don”t accept advertising on this site and are not going to give it away free.
 The ability to leave comments expires after a certain period of time.
 So you may find that you’re unable to leave a comment on an article that is more than a few months old.
 You might also like   ASCO offers a positive spin on cancer drug survival stats while downplaying severe side effects Small study in mice wrongly claimed to advance human alcoholism treatment It's all in the details, and this summary of nonsurgical treatments for knee osteoarthritis left them out   	News Release Reviews  Systematic, Criteria-Driven @HealthNewsRevu Retweet on TwitterHealthNewsReview.org RetweetedPaul John Scott@pauljohnscott·@garyschwitzer has been a trailblazer in protecting us from bamboozled health reporting.
 Thrilled to get his endorsement here for #Malcharist, which fictionalizes problems he first helped us see.
 https://twitter.com/garyschwitzer/status/1310190671555375109Reply on Twitter 1310210060212150273Retweet on Twitter 13102100602121502732Like on Twitter 13102100602121502733Twitter 1310210060212150273HealthNewsReview.org@HealthNewsRevu·How #COVID19 drug/vaccine decisions might be based on results in dozens of people, not the thousands we read about in the daily tsunami of news about the race in competing trials.
 https://www.healthnewsreview.org/2020/09/how-covid-19-drug-vaccine-decisions-might-be-based-on-little-evidence/ Reply on Twitter 1309174175370747909Retweet on Twitter 13091741753707479095Like on Twitter 13091741753707479095Twitter 1309174175370747909Retweet on TwitterHealthNewsReview.org RetweetedJAMA Internal Medicine@JAMAInternalMed·Major revisions + reversals of reporting about the efficacy of remdesivir and HCQ have compromised the public's trust in scientists and physicians.
