Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 Dan Evon       Published 21 December 2016           													Image via wandee007 / Shutterstock.com                  				smg.ads.load( 'post-featured-1' ); 			    Claim  A young boy named Dakota was air lifted to the hospital after having a seizure.
 Rating         Mixture About this rating      What's True A boy was airlifted to University of Mississippi Medical Center after suffering seizures.
 What's False The child's name is Waylon, not Dakota, and the incident occurred back on 3 December 2016.
 Do you rely on Snopes reporting?
 Become a member today.
 They had to life flight him.
 He is having seizures.
 Forward this everywhere please.
 Those leads, however, also resulted in dead ends.
 Nearly every message about Dakota lacked credible information about where or when this incident occurred, but we did find a message posted to the prayer board of the Woodland Hills Baptist Church in Longview, Texas, which may have provided some additional details (i.e., the child’s full name and location) about the situation: Please pray for Dakota Wells.
 He is a child from Big Sandy  area … he is having continuous seizures and has been air lifted  to Dallas.
 Please pray for his healing … pray for his family and the Medical staff taking care of him.
 Thanks However, this information was inaccurate.
 Dakota Wells was not the name of the young boy who was airlifted to the hospital, but rather the name of the Facebook user who originally posted about the sick child.
 According to Wells, the young boy’s name is Waylon, her cousin, and he was airlifted to the University of Mississippi Medical Center on 3 December 2016:  A GoFundMe Page set up for Waylon Wells provided a little more information about the situation: Waylon was born Dec 3, 2016 son of Evan and Brandy Wells.
 He was airlifted to UMMC NICU within 3 hours of being born due to heart and lung complications.
 Prayers are being felt and greatly appreciated but the medical bills, gas and food expenses will be costly while Waylon is in the hospital.
 Any donation will be greatly appreciated!Help spread the word!
 Dakota Wells published pictures of Waylon being held by family members on 6 December 2016, three days after he was airlifted to the hospital.
 In early 2017, an update on his condition was published to the GoFundMe campaign’s page along with clarifications pertaining to social media rumors.
 Waylon was released from the hospital at the time the update was published, and”doing [great]”: I just wanted to update everyone on Waylon and clear up any misconceptions about his condition.
 Waylon does not nor did he ever have any seizures.
 He has Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy, which is a thickening in his right heart muscle.
 Which he will always have to take medicine for.
 He will be able to live and function just like a normal child, no one will ever know anything is wrong with him just like a person that has diabetes if they don’t tell you, you wouldn’t know they had it.
 Waylon is doing GREAT!
 He has been home for almost 3 weeks now and is growing and developing as he should be.
 He sleeps and eats and is just a very content sweet baby boy.
 He will have routine monthly visits to his cardiologist for at least a year just to keep a check on his heart, all precautionary, he is otherwise a healthy boy!
 We are more Thankful for your prayers than we could ever express!
 I am not sure how Evan or myself would have gotten through those two weeks without all of you praying us through everything we were going through!
 Please continue to remember him in your daily prayers that he continues to grow strong and healthy!
 Thank y’all from the bottom of our hearts Although this prayer request most likely refers to Waylon Wells, the cousin of a “Dakota” Wells, it’s also possibly that this viral message refers to an incident in 2014, when a baby named Dakota when airlifted to a hospital in Bismarck.
 This request has also been conflated with one seeking prayers for a child shot with a nail gun.
 Snopes.com   Since 1994     Help Supercharge Snopes For 2020  				We have big plans.
 We need your help.
 Become a member!
 Published 21 December 2016   By   Dan Evon     Filed Under   Prayer Requests               				smg.ads.load( 'post-footer-1' ); 			    Editors' Picks         Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 Did DHS Secretly Watermark Ballots in an Election Fraud Sting Against Dems?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Discussing election mechanics is easier when you actually know how elections work.
 Can State Legislatures Override the Choice of Presidential Electors?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   The electoral college is a unique system for indirectly electing the president of the United States.
 Has Starbucks Sold a ‘Christmas Blend’ Since 1984?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Since at least 2015, the popular coffee chain has faced accusations of being "anti-Christmas."
 Snopes Fact-Checks the 2020 US Election, Live    															5 November 2020													  							Collections						   Lies don't wait — and neither does Snopes.
 14 August 2020													  							Fact Check						   Harris long ago distanced herself from the relationship.
 Did DHS Secretly Watermark Ballots in an Election Fraud Sting Against Dems?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Discussing election mechanics is easier when you actually know how elections work.
 Does Your Food Contain Beaver Anal Secretions?
 5 February 2013													  							Fact Check						   Alarmist warnings about beaver-derived castoreum are overblown: its use is now exceedingly rare, and the typical consumer is unlikely to ever encounter castoreum in food.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 Was a Pornhub Logo Accidentally Displayed on CNN?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   This video has racked up more than 7 million views.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			     Snopes.com needs your help.Become a member today.
 Learn How          				smg.ads.load( 'side-3' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 See the whole collection.
 Support Us       					You rely on Snopes, and we rely on you.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
