Please purchase a subscription to read our premium content.
 If you have a subscription, please log in or sign up for an account on our website to continue.
 Sign Up   Log In     Purchase a Subscription          
     Thank you for reading!
 Please log in, or sign up for a new account to continue reading.
 Sign Up   Log In    Purchase a Subscription
         × Thank you for reading!
 We hope that you continue to enjoy our free content.
 Edit Article  Add New Article Close    You have permission to edit this article.
 High near 75F.
 Winds S at 10 to 15 mph.. Tonight Mostly clear.
 Low 57F.
 Winds SSE at 10 to 15 mph.
 Your kids could be too              My vote matters... and so does yours              Vox Picks for November              FAQ: What is a microaggression?
 Visuals
       
              Graphics  Photos  Videos  Friday Night Sights 2019  Visions of Verse                   PHOTO GALLERY: Protesters demand all votes be counted after Trump looks to the courts              PHOTO GALLERY: Protesters demand all votes be counted after Trump looks to the courts                     PHOTO GALLERY: Protesters demand all votes be counted after Trump looks to the courts              PHOTO GALLERY: Columbia College women's basketball beats Benedictine College              PHOTO GALLERY: Hickman boy's soccer season comes to an end              PHOTO GALLERY: Bruins fall in final seconds              PHOTO GALLERY: Hickman boys soccer wins last-second thriller     Special Sections
       
              Boomtown  100 Ages  Business Spotlight  Collegetown  Homecoming  Innovations in Agriculture  Progress  Tourism  Welcome Back                   Federal visa policy won't apply to international students under latest plan              Painted Rock Conservation Area is a look at Native American history              Willmore Lodge no longer takes guests, but it does offer history lessons about Lake of the Ozarks              Looking for an Elizabethan experience?
 Try a Shakespeare-themed bed and breakfast              Be a wise guy and enjoy Kansas City's mobster tour     Classifieds
      Subscribe
                           63°            
         
          Columbia, MO
         
          (65201)  Today Abundant sunshine.
 High near 75F.
 Winds S at 10 to 15 mph.. Tonight Mostly clear.
 Low 57F.
 Winds SSE at 10 to 15 mph.
 Two members abstained from the vote, but no members voted confidence in Loftin's leadership.
 "While we recognize Chancellor Loftin’s service, his twenty-one month tenure has been marked by dereliction of duty in maintaining the quality and reputation of graduate education, violations of the bedrock principle of shared governance and failure to defend the University’s educational mission against outside political pressure," the letter read.The letter was sent in an email to University of Missouri System President Tim Wolfe and the UM System Board of Curators on Wednesday morning by Samuel Cohen, associate professor in the English Department and faculty fellow in the Office of Graduate Studies.
 Cohen initially suggested the no confidence vote in October.
 "I proposed it to the department during a discussion about the cut in tuition waivers for 0.25 students," Cohen said.
 "I think we had an email discussion prior to and after meetings about it and I said, 'You know, I think we should talk about this.'"
 Download PDF          The revocation of full tuition waivers for graduate student employees with quarter-time assistantships — who work for the university about 10 hours a week — is one of the primary concerns of William Kerwin, an associate professor and director of graduate studies in the English Department.Kerwin said Loftin gave lip service to the issue, among others, at a general faculty meeting but has not addressed it.
 "He is not responding to this outcry about what is a terrible injustice," Kerwin said.
 "It suggests he doesn’t understand what goes on in the departments and what the needs of the students are.
 "He said the current administration is getting in the way of the university's potential, undermining and dismantling it.
 "We (stood up) because we feel like we haven’t been listened to and that we have been treated poorly, and by we I mean the broader university community — graduate students, minorities, all sorts of people are suffering under this administration," Kerwin said.Last month, about 300 faculty in the School of Medicine took an informal survey about the abrupt resignation of the school’s dean, Patrice Delafontaine.
 The survey included language that reflected some concerns about Delafontaine's departure, such as "forced resignation," and exhibited a distrust of the chancellor and in his ability to lead the university.Loftin has been the lightning rod for many of the issues that have been brought forward by faculty, staff and students this year, including graduate student employee rights, race relations on campus, the cancellation of Planned Parenthood contracts, the restructuring of academic departments and Delafontaine's resignation.
 "Fiasco after fiasco … it just never stops," Kerwin said of the contentious issues popping up around the university.
 "It isn’t one thing; it’s a constellation of things.
 "Loftin has been cited by some faculty, staff and students for a lack of transparency and cooperation in decision-making, for his slow response time to major issues and for bowing to outside political pressures.
 "Because of these failures of leadership, we believe the best course of action is to find a new Chancellor who will be better equipped to repair the damage done to our graduate program, adhere to the principle and practice of shared governance, and defend academic freedom at the flagship campus of the public university serving the citizens of Missouri," the English Department's letter concluded.Cohen sent the letter to about 22 other university departments and programs, he said, in hopes that the English Department’s statement will encourage others to come forward with their opinions and frustrations.
 Although he had been in communication with other departments and programs about the university's leadership, he did not want to say which were considering taking the same action.
 He said some departments have been quiet about their frustrations, for fear of repercussions.
 "I know there have been discussions.
 … A lot of departments are talking about it, and many of them expressed a reluctance to stick out their necks, which I totally understand," Cohen said.
 "Hopefully this will help them.
 "The English Department's letter was also sent to the dean of the College of Arts and Science, Michael O’Brien.
 O’Brien said through an assistant Wednesday that he did not want to comment on the English Department's vote.Wolfe, the UM System president, has also been the focus of much discussion, especially after the announcement Monday that graduate student and campus activist Jonathan Bulter would engage in a hunger strike until his demands — including Wolfe's removal from office — were met.Also standing up to administrators, the MU Graduate Professional Council held a vote Tuesday evening at its General Assembly.
 The vote was to pass a resolution showing the council stands in solidarity with those who are fighting for social justice causes at the university.
 The resolution had no reference to Loftin but cited Wolfe a number of times for failing to speak up during recent protests and announcements.One part of the letter included references to Wolfe’s "... continued negligence towards the racism, homophobia, sexism, labor exploitation, and other issues at this university.
 ""GPC has had the question asked of them by one administrator, 'Why is this a GPC issue?'
 and that’s what we want to combat," GPC treasurer Alex Howe said.
 "This is all part of the social justice movement, and these aren’t individual, isolated issues.
 These are all facets of the same thing.
 "GPC vice president Rachel Bauer said members of student organizations who have spoken to administrators about university issues and concerns were directed by those administrators to their elected student representatives such as GPC and the Missouri Students Association.
 "What this is really showing is that we’re standing in solidarity," Bauer said of the resolution.
 "And we’re showing the administration that we are not going to allow them to talk to us all individually anymore because if it's a student issue, it's a GPC issue.
 "To Kerwin, the best-case scenario is for university administrators to start listening to faculty and students and be active in making positive changes that align the university with its true values.
 The worst-case scenario, he said, would be for the university to continue as it is, straying from its values and purpose.
 "Our primary mission is to promote thoughtful, creative and empowered citizens," Kerwin said.
 "We are here for the citizens of Missouri, and they have had a world-class university, and it's being dismantled.
 "Supervising editor is Elizabeth Brixey.
 Facebook        Twitter        WhatsApp        SMS        Email        Print        Save                   More information                          UPDATE: MU student embarks on hunger strike, demands Wolfe's removal from office  Jonathan Butler, a graduate student at MU, made the decision to go on a hunger strike a couple of days after the Homecoming Parade, and he has been preparing his body over the last two weeks.
 Protesters say talks with President Wolfe did not achieve resolution
                  
                The short, controversial life (so far) of MU’s leader
                  
                Diversity and inclusion training to be required campuswide
                  
                Planned Parenthood supporters pack Speakers Circle with pink
                  
                MU releases year-long Title IX data on student sex discrimination, assault
                  
                Departments state support for student group; group calls for Wolfe's resignation
                  
                MU students petition in support of Jefferson statue and legacy on campus (2015)
                  
                Graduate students, still frustrated, hold grade-in
                  
                In Homecoming parade, racial justice advocates take different paths
                  
                MU Faculty Council discusses grad students, physician privileges, Ellis Library
                  
                MU chancellor guarantees graduate student employee health insurance subsidies now, in future
                  
                MU students think sexual assault is 'not at all likely' in Campus Climate Survey
                  
                Faculty Council members discuss new medical dean, graduate student rights
                  
                Leona Rubin grapples with frustration, funding options at open forum on MU graduate rights
                  
                MU administrators apologize for mishandling grad insurance communication
                  
                Survey highlights faculty dissatisfaction in MU School of Medicine
                  
                Activists put football night protest on hold, plan event for Monday
                  
                Two hours in a cold, dark tent on the Carnahan Quadrangle
                         Tags  Grad Health Insurance   Med School   Race At Mu   Mu Graduate Professional Council   Missouri Students Association   Chancellor R. Bowen Loftin   Tim Wolfe   Um System         You must be logged in to participate in the Show Me the Errors contest.
 Your notification has been saved.
 There was a problem saving your notification.
 Save             Manage followed notifications              Close  Followed notifications    Please log in to use this feature Log In   Don't have an account?
 Sign Up Today                               Recommended for you                                    Latest News                         MU students receive warning letters over campus protest              MU Faculty Council rejects proposal to have nonconsecutive spring break              MU Student Center to become next #CampusClear station              Know your rights, commissioner of Civilian Oversight Board urges              Educational gaps linked to race, parent income, report finds              Most Popular               Articles    Images    Collections     ArticlesNext man up: Jevon Porter is the big man in townWoman assaulted by a stranger while sweeping leaves off her patioUPDATE: Voters approve Amendment 3, rolling back 'Clean Missouri' redistricting changesAldred defeats Parry; Thompson fends off AsburyFormer Columbia College professor killed in house fireMore schools switch to virtual learning as district faces staff shortagesIncumbents sweep Boone County legislative racesMake America Great Again, Black Lives Matter supporters trade chants the weekend before the electionUPDATE: Victim identified, suspect held in Cosmo Park homicideBoone County reports its 18th COVID-19 related death, reaches new single-day case high  Images                                                                                   CollectionsPHOTO GALLERY: Hickman boys soccer wins last-second thrillerPHOTO GALLERY: Absentee voters line up on the eve of Election DayPHOTO GALLERY: Hickman boy's soccer season comes to an endPHOTO GALLERY: Protesters demand all votes be counted after Trump looks to the courtsPHOTO GALLERY: Galloway addresses Boone County Democratic PartyPHOTO GALLERY: Columbia College women's basketball beats Benedictine CollegePHOTO GALLERY: Bruins fall in final seconds   Elizabeth BrixeyEducation editor  573-882-2632  brixeye@missouri.edu Missourian Bio                  Obituaries                            Carolyn Oliver spent her life sharing her love of adventure              Death notices for Oct. 10, 2020              Death notices for Oct. 6, 2020              Paula Elias, a pioneer in film and advertising, fostered courage in others              Death notice for Sept. 26, 2020                                       Sections               Home   News   Sports   Opinion   Obituaries   Visuals   From Readers   Como you know   Archives   Special Sections                  Services              About Us   Advertise With Us   Contact Us   Rack Locations   Site Forms   Subscribe   Search     Success!
 An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup.
 Error!
 There was an error processing your request.
 Daily Headlines Receive top local news and columns every morning.
 (View a sample.)
 Please enter a valid email address.
 You are receiving this message because your browser is not compatible with Google surveys or you have private browsing turned on.
 If you have a subscription with the Missourian, you can login to view the content.
 Otherwise, we suggest using a different browser or turning off private browsing settings.
 "d1z2jf7jlzjs58.cloudfront.net"     :"static.
