Beauty.
 Business.
 Welcome AccountSubscribeLog InLogout          search           Fashion  Fashion Trends Fashion Features Fashion Scoops Designer &amp; Luxury Ready-To-Wear Sportswear Intimates Activewear Textiles Denim Street Style   Business  Financial Government &amp; Trade Mergers &amp; Acquisitions Legal Human Resources Marketing &amp; Promotion Retail Markets Media   Beauty  Beauty Features Skin Care Fragrance Color Cosmetics Hair   Men’s  Retail/Business Fashion Lifestyle Designer &amp; Luxury Sportswear Clothing/Furnishings   Runway  2021 Spring Ready-to-Wear 2021 Resort 2021 Spring Bridal 2020 Fall Couture 2021 Men’s Spring Collections 2020 Fall Ready-to-Wear 2020 Pre-fall 2020 Spring Couture 2020 Men’s Fall Collections   Accessories  Jewelry Footwear Handbags Leather Goods Watches Eyewear Hats, Gloves and More   Eye  Parties People Lifestyle Real Estate Dirt   Video Fairchild Live Markets Shop WWD Studios        Sustainability H&amp;M Names Leyla Ertur as Head of Sustainability  clock  21h 	• Mimosa Spencer    Beauty Sue Nabi Talks Kylie Cosmetics, Covergirl and the Future of Coty  clock  November 6, 2020 	• Allison Collins    Business Brookfield Property Partners Continues to Log Record Losses  clock  23h 	• Kellie Ell        Sponsored  Tapping Into The Vibrancy of Africa               					Business				    Retail				            Coronavirus Impact: Ulta Beauty Furloughs Store, Salon Workers Ulta's stores will remain closed until it is "safe" to reopen them, said ceo Mary Dillon.
 Shutterstock / Ken Wolter						       Ulta Beauty is furloughing many store and salon associates as the company’s stores remain closed due to the coronavirus pandemic.
 “After thoughtful consideration, we have made the difficult decision to temporarily furlough many of our store and salon associates.
 During these uncertain times, we will do all we can to make sure these associates are supported,” Mary Dillon, Ulta chief executive officer, said in a statement.
 Ulta said it intends to bring the workforce back when “it is safe to do so,” and that the furlough will go into effect April 19.
 Affected employees can apply for unemployment benefits, Ulta said, and will remain enrolled in company benefits.
 At the same time, Dillon has said she would indefinitely forgo her base salary, and has made a $500,000 donation to the Ulta Beauty Associate Relief Program, which provides grants to associates facing personal hardship.
 The Ulta Beauty executive team and board of directors are also expected to make personal donations to the program.
 The business said its stores will remain closed “until it is safe to reopen” in order to slow the spread of COVID-19, and to keep workers and shoppers safe.
 Ulta’s decision follows that of Sephora, which said it would lay off some part-time and seasonal employees, and reduce pay for other employees in late March.
 For more from WWD.com, see:  As Coronavirus Closures Persist, Sephora Lays Off Part-time, Seasonal Employees Can Beauty Companies Navigate Coronavirus?
 ⁠ ⁠ The day will feature CEO snapshots, discussions on key issues impacting the industry, keynotes and conversations with the most influential thinkers from the worlds of marketing, retail and culture, plus live audience Q&amp;A.
 ⁠ ⁠ Tap the link in bio to register.
 @wwd We are at a ‘pivotal point’ for ethical fashion over fast fashion.
 ⁣ ⁣ Edited, a retail market analytics firm that publishes reports on runway and retail trends, said COVID-19 has caused a blow to fast fashion’s typically quick cadence despite some signs of recovery.
 In the U.S. and U.K. combined, new product arrivals for Q3 2020 were 11 percent lower than in 2019, owed in part to the pandemic-induced supply chain pause.
 But the fact that levels haven’t picked back up indicate that fast fashion’s pace of product pushes may not return to pre-COVID-19 levels, particularly as disdain for inventory glut and its often landfill fate rises.⁣ ⁣ In its annual sustainability report released last week, Edited said the “degrowth movement” may be a big part of what rewrites fashion’s future.⁣ ⁣ “The events of 2020 have made it clear that the fashion industry cannot return to its pre-pandemic processes and levels of mass production.
 There is an increasing mind-set shift around the degrowth movement — working less, buying less and making less,” the report noted.
 “Going beyond the need for minimalism, retailers need to encourage consumers to make slower and more ethical fashion choices, spotlighting the concept of ‘buy less, buy better.
 '”⁣ ⁣ Tap the link in bio for more.
 ⁣ ⁣ Report: @kaleyroshitsh      @wwd The big four capitals are split on the future of coed fashion weeks.
 Paris and Milan will maintain separate fashion weeks for men and women, while London and New York could durably cancel their men’s weeks.
 In a rare occurrence, Steven Kolb, president and chief executive officer of the Council of Fashion Designers of America; Pascal Morand, executive president of the French Fédération de la Haute Couture et de la Mode; Caroline Rush, ceo of the British Fashion Council, and Carlo Capasa, president of Italy’s Camera della Moda took part in a virtual summit on brand performance organized by data research and insights firm Launchmetrics.
 At the link in bio, see what each of the fashion council leaders said about the future of fashion week in their perspective cities.
 Report: @jdiderich 📸: @giovanni_giannoni_photo          WWD logo 			Global Stock Index		    					Business Page 					right arrow     		// Document Ready.
 But With Virus Under Control in South Korea, the Show Goes On            Know the Trends Before Anyone Else    											SUBSCRIBE NOW										      WWD									down caret  About Us Advertising WWDMagic Subscribe    Legal									down caret  Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights AdChoices EU Privacy Preferences Terms of Use PMC Fashion &amp; Luxury Do Not Sell My Personal Information    Customer Service									down caret  WWD FAQ Digital Daily FAQ Accessibility    Chat with us!
 twitter  facebook    Instagram               LinkedIn        Subscribe to WWD’s newsletters Get all the top news stories and alerts straight to your inbox.
 Invalid email address By subscribing, you agree to our  	 		Privacy Policy	 and  	 		Terms of Use.
 Dismiss  Log-In                                      Please log in        				You are no longer onsite at your organization.
 Please log in.
 For assistance, contact your corporate administrator.
