Skip to Main Content         BREAKING NEWS   Joe Biden has won the presidency           POLITICO              Magazine  The Agenda  Pro   Search    Search                SECTIONS   Congress  White House  Magazine  The Agenda  Video  Podcasts     2020 Elections   News  All Election Results  Presidential Results  Senate Results  House Results  Governor Results  Key Ballot Measures  Tracking Threats to the Election     NEWSLETTERS   Playbook  Playbook PM  POLITICO Nightly  Transition Playbook  Huddle  All Newsletters    SERIES   The Fifty  The Vaccine Race  What Works  Women Rule     POLITICO LIVE   Live Home  Upcoming Events  Previous Events  About POLITICO Live    COLUMNS &amp; CARTOONS   Rich Lowry  Jack Shafer  Matt Wuerker  Cartoon Carousel     POLICY   Agriculture  Cannabis  Cybersecurity  Defense  Education  eHealth  Employment &amp; Immigration  Energy &amp; Environment  Finance &amp; Tax  Health Care  Space  Sustainability  Technology  Trade  Transportation     EDITIONS   California  Canada  Europe  Florida  New Jersey  New York  Pro     Follow us   Twitter  Instagram  Facebook      My Account  Log InLog Out                                  Facebook      Twitter        Print     Continue to article content                                  'The president needs to speak to his NIH director in charge of drug abuse,' Kennedy says.
 The former eight-term Rhode Island Democrat said Obama’s statement in an interview this weekend that pot is not worse than alcohol was based on anecdotal evidence, not science.
 “I think the president needs to speak to his NIH director in charge of drug abuse,” Kennedy said on MSNBC’s “Hardball” on Monday night.
 “[She] would tell the president that, in fact, today’s modern, genetically modified marijuana, so it’s much higher THC levels, far surpass the marijuana that the president acknowledges smoking when he was a young person.”   ( PHOTOS: 9 pols who talked pot)   Kennedy said government research shows that marijuana is harmful.
 “He is wrong when he says that it isn’t very harmful, because the new marijuana is not the old marijuana,” Kennedy said.
 “We need to have presidential decisions made based upon public health and the sound science that the federal government’s invested in.”   The former congressman said if the president believes alcohol is more dangerous, he should be concerned about legalizing and commercializing marijuana, because, Kennedy argues, America doesn’t want another Big Tobacco or Big Alcohol.
 ( Also on POLITICO: Obama: Pot not worse than alcohol)   “I mean, if the president feels alcohol is worse than tobacco, what’s he prepared to do?
 And I’ll tell you, the president won’t be able to do a thing,” Kennedy said.
 “Why?
 Because alcohol is too powerful an industry to change.
 And right now, we have a chance to stop another for-profit industry from targeting our public health.”   The son of the late Sen. Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.)
 and nephew of President John F. Kennedy is the chairman of the advocacy group Smart Approaches to Marijuana.
 Marijuana advocates took issue with Kennedy’s remarks, saying he missed the point.
 “There is a certain irony in Kennedy — who admits he doesn’t have much experience with marijuana — lecturing President Obama about this, especially when the president was focusing his comments on the need to end the injustices of disparate enforcement,” said Aaron Houston, a lobbyist and co-founder of the Marijuana Majority.
 Houston also rejected comparisons to the alcohol and tobacco industry, saying such analogies were designed to scare voters.
 Sign up for POLITICO Playbook and get the latest news, every morning — in your inbox.
