Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                 Developmental Disabilities            Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                          Metropolitan Atlanta Developmental Disabilities Surveillance Program (MADDSP) Data Sets Español (Spanish)     Minus     Related Pages      Measles mumps rubella / autism study MADDSP 1991-1996 This data set has been designated as a “restricted access” data set because concerns about confidentiality of study subjects.
 The Developmental Disabilities Branch (DDB) will only make this data set available under restricted conditions.
 To request access to the data, interested researchers must complete a scientific proposal and send it to CDC at NCBDDDdata@cdc.gov.
 The proposal should clearly state which data sets are being requested, how the researcher plans to analyze them, and which hypothesis(es) are being tested.
 The proposal should be no longer than eight typed, single-spaced pages, including appendices and cover page, in Times New Roman 12 pt font.
 The proposal should include the following:  Background – This section should describe the background and reasons for requesting the data set(s) of interest.
 Introduction – This section should describe the proposed research, in detail, including a clear statement of the hypothesis(es) being tested and an explanation of its significance to the overall analysis.
 In addition, this section should also describe how the researchers intend to maintain confidentiality of the data.
 Methods – This section should clearly list, with relevant citations, the analytical methods proposed for data analysis.
 Data Sets Requested – This section should clearly list the data set(s) requested and the length of time each data set is needed.
 Appendices  This appendix should state the qualifications and experience of the Principal Investigator(s).
 This appendix should contain certification that funding is in place to conduct the research as proposed.
 This documentation could consist of a signed letter from the PI’s institution stating this fact.
 Once CDC has received the subject proposal, it will be evaluated to determine its scientific merit.
 CDC will notify the researchers by email within 3 weeks of receipt of the proposal.
 Page last reviewed: April 21, 2017 Content source: 	National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities
 , Centers for Disease Control and Prevention          home Developmental Disabilities Homepage   Facts  Specific Conditionsplus icon  Facts About Intellectual Disability Facts About Vision Loss    Research &amp; Trackingplus icon   MADDSPplus icon  Data Sets      Articles &amp; Key Findingsplus icon  Increase in Developmental Disabilities   Free Materials Multimedia &amp; Tools About Us Links to Other Websites               HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
