      On the Cover˜ Lake Michigan image is from the National Aero
nautics and Space Administration™s (NASA) MODIS 
Satellite. Source: http://visibleearth.nasa.gov. Image is accessible at 
http://veimages.gsfc.nasa.gov//1120/S1999254181550_md.jpg
.                                                              Table of Contents ˜Executive Summary–––––––––––––––––––––––––––.ESŒ1 Chapter 1 Œ Introduction––––––––––––––––––––––––..–.1
Œ1 1.1 What are Combined Sewers and CSOs?–.–––––––––––––––––..1Œ1˜ 1.2 What Comprises the Lake Michigan Basin?––––––––––––––––.–1Œ4˜ 1.3 How is this Report Organized?––––––––––––––––––––––.1Œ5˜ Chapter 2 Œ Regulation of CSOs–––––––––––––––––––––––2
Œ1 2.1 What is the History of Federal CSO Control Efforts?––––––––––––––2
Œ1˜ 2.1.1 Initial Efforts to Control CSOs–––––––––––––––––––..–2Œ1˜ 2.1.2 CSO Case Law–––––––––––––––––––..––––––.....2Œ2˜ 2.1.3 National
 Municipal Policy on POTWs––––––––––––––––......2
Œ2˜ 2.1.4 National
 CSO Control Strategy and the Ma
nagement Advisory Group–––....2
Œ2˜ 2.1.5 CS
O Control Policy––––––––––––––.––––––––..–....2Œ3˜ 2.1.6 Wet Weather Water Quality Act.––––––––––––––––––.....2
Œ3˜ 2.2 What is the CSO Control Policy?––...––––––––––––––––––....2
Œ4˜ 2.2.1 ˚Objectives for CSO Communities–...––––––––––––––––...2Œ4˜ 2.2.2 ˚Expectations for Permitting Authorities...–..–––––––––––––...2
Œ5˜ 2.2.3 ˚Coordination with Water Quality Standards: Development, Review, and ˜
   Approval––..–––––––.––––––––––––..–––––.....2Œ5˜ 2.2.4 ˚Enforcement and Compliance–––––––––––––––––––..2
Œ6˜ 2.3 What Targets Have Been Established for CSOs?–––––––––––––––.2
Œ6˜ 2.3.1 EPA Targets for CSO Control––––––––––––––––––––.2Œ6˜ 2.3.2  Great Lakes Strategy Targets for CSO Control...––––.––––––––..2Œ7˜ Chapter 3ŠCSO Discharges to Lake Michigan––––––––––––––––.3Œ1 3.1 How were the data collected?––––––––––––––––––––...–...3
Œ1˜ 3.2 What is the Occurrence of CSOs to Lake Michigan and its Tributaries?...–––––..3Œ3˜ 3.2.1 ˚Volume an
d Frequency of CSO Discharges––––––––––––––..3Œ4˜ 3.3 What Problems are Caused by CSO Discharges?–––––––––––––.......3Œ13˜ 3.3.1 ˚Water Quality Impacts Attributed to CSO: 305(b) Assessments and 303(d)   ˜
      Impairments––––––––––––––––––––––––––.3
Œ13˜ i                      Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
3.3.2 BEACH Program––––––––––––––––––..–––––..3Œ15 ˜3.3.3      Impacts within Great Lakes AOCs––––––––––––––––....3Œ18 ˜3.3.4  Other Efforts Underway in the Lake Michigan Basin–.–..––––––....3Œ19 ˜Chapter 4ŠState Approaches to CSO Control in the Lake Michigan Basin––––4
Œ1 4.1 What is the Indiana Approach to CSO Control?–––––––––––––––..4Œ1 ˜4.1.1   Strategy for CSO Control and NPDES Permitting......–.–––––––––4
Œ1˜ 4.1.2     Status of CSO Control..––.–––...–––––––....––––––––4Œ3 ˜4.2 What is the Michigan Approach to CSO Control?–––––––––––.–––..4Œ6 ˜4.2.1   Strategy for CSO Control and NPDES Permitting––––––..––––....4
Œ6 ˜4.2.2      Status of CSO Control–––––..––––––––––––––––...4
Œ7 ˜4.3 What is the Wisconsin Approach to CSO Control?.–...––––.–––––..–...–4
Œ9 ˜4.3.1  Strategy for CSO Control and NPDES Permitting.....–––...–––.–––.4
Œ9 ˜4.3.2     Status of CSO Control–....–––––––––––––..–.–––––4Œ10 ˜4.4 What is the Illinois Approach to CSO Control?–––––––––––––––.4Œ11˜ 4.4.1    Strategy for CSO Control and NPDES Permitting––––––––––....4
Œ11 ˜4.4.2  Status of CSO Control–––––––––––––––––––––...4
Œ12˜ Chapter 5ŠConclusions and Future Actions––.–..–––––––––––––5Œ1 5.1 What are Current Conditions in the Lake Michigan Basin?––––––––––....5
Œ1˜ 5.2 What are Future EPA Actions to Co
ntrol CSOs in the Lake Michigan Basin?––––5Œ2 ˜5.2.1 State Permit Oversight–––––––––––––––––––––...5
Œ3 ˜5.2.2     State Enforcement Program Oversight–––––––––––––––.5
Œ3 ˜5.2.3 Enforcement Activity––––––––––––––––––––––.5Œ3 ˜5.2.4 Technical Assistance––––––––––––––––––––––..5Œ4 ˜5.2.5   Financial Assistance––––––––––––––––––––––...5
Œ4 ˜5.2.6    Water Quality Standards Review and Approval–––––––––––....5
Œ5 ˜5.3 Summary–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––.....5
Œ5 ˜ii                                                      
                                                            
                                      Table of Contents List of Figures ˜Figure ES.1ŠLocation of CSO Communities in the Lake Michigan Basin–.––.–––ESŒ3 Figure 1.1ŠTypical Combined Sewer System–.––––––––––––––.––.1Œ2 Figure 1.2ŠNational Distribution of CSSs–––––.––––––––––––––1Œ4 Figure 1.3ŠMap of Lake Michigan Basin––––––––––––––––..–––.1Œ5 Figure 3.1ŠLocation of CSO Communities in the Lake            Michigan Basin––..––––––––..–––––––––.––––....3Œ4 Figure 3.2ŠAnnual CSO Frequency for Michigan CSO Communities in the Lake            Michigan Basin: 2003-2004–.–...–––––––..–––––––––...3Œ8 Figure 3.3ŠMap of Chicago Area with Three Waterway-Controlling Works...––––..3
Œ11 Figure 3.4ŠSources of Pollution that Resulted in Lake Michigan Beach Advisories 
          and Closings: 2000-2004–.–.––––––––––––––––...–..3Œ17 Figure 3.5ŠCSOs Reported to Cause Beach Advisories and Closings in Four Counties  
          Bordering Lake Michigan: 2000-2004–––––––––––––––..3Œ17 Figure 4.1ŠLocation of Indiana CSO Communities in the Lake Michigan            Basin–.––.––––––––––––––––––––––...––....4Œ3 Figure 4.2ŠLocation of Michigan CSO Communiti
es in the Lake Michigan Basin–..–....4Œ7 Figure 4.3ŠWisconsin™s CSO Community in the Lake Michigan Basin–––––..––4Œ10 Figure 4.4ŠComparison of Pre-ISS Annual Overflow
 Volumes with Post-ISS Overflow  
          Volumes in Milwaukee, WI..–––..––––––––––––......––..4
Œ11 iii                                                                             
                                                Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
List of Tables˜ Table 3.1
ŠLake Michigan CSO Community Information–––––––––––––3Œ5 Table 3.2ŠIndiana CSO Discharge Information..–––––––––––––...––...3
Œ7 Table 3.3ŠAnnual CSO Volumes for Michigan CSO Communities in the Lake             Michigan Basin: 2003-2004–––––––––––––...––––––...3Œ9 Table 3.4ŠMMSD Annual CSO Frequency and Volume: 1998-2004 ––––––...–.3
Œ10 Table 3.5ŠChicago-Area River Reversals to Lake Michigan: 1985-2005––––––...3
Œ12 Table 3.6ŠPollutants of Concern in CSOs that Are 
Likely to Cause or Contribute to
     Impairment.....––..––––––––––––––––––––––..3
Œ14 Table 3.7ŠSources of Pollution that Resulted in
 Advisories and Closings in Four Lake  
Michigan Counties: 2000-2004.––––––––––––––––––3Œ18 Table 4.1ŠStatus of CSO Control Policy Requirements in Indiana, Lake Michigan  
Basin Only ––––––––––––––––––––––.––––..4Œ4 Table 4.2ŠSummary of CSO Controls Implemented or Proposed in Indiana CSO         Communities in the Lake Michigan Basin––––––––––––––..4Œ5 Table 4.3ŠStatus of CSO Control Policy Requirements in Michigan, Lake Michigan Basin Only...––––––––.–.––.––––––––.––––––..4Œ8 Table 4.4ŠCSO Controls Implemented or Scheduled to Be Implemented in Michigan       CSO Communities in the Lake Michigan Basin...––––.––––...–––4Œ9 Table 4.5ŠVolume of Combined Sewage Ca
ptured by TARP: 1982Œ2004...–––––4Œ12 iv                                                       
       Table of Contents Appendix˜ Appendix A ––––––––––––––––––––––––Community Profiles v         List of Acronyms AOC Œ Areas of Concern BEACH Program Œ Beaches 
Environmental Assessment and Coastal 
Health Program 
BG Œ Billion Gallons 
CFU Œ Colony-Forming Units 
CSO Œ Combined Sewer Overflow 
CSS Œ Combined Sewer System DMR Œ Discharge Monitoring Report EPA Œ Environmental Protection Agency 

IDEM Œ Indiana Department of Environmental Management Illinois EPA Œ Illinois Environmental Protection Agency ISS Œ Inline Storage System 
LaMP Œ Lakewide Management Plan 
LTCP Œ Long-Term Control Plan 

MAG Œ Management Advisory Group MDEQ Œ Michigan Department of Environmental Quality 
MG Œ Million Gallons 
MGD Œ Million Gallons per Day 
MMSD Œ Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District MWRDGC Œ Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago 
NMC Œ Nine Minimum Controls NMP Œ National Municipal Policy 
NPDES Œ National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System NWQI Œ National Water Quality Inventory PCBs Œ Polychlorinated Biphenyls 
POTW Œ Publicly Owned Treatment Works RAP Œ Remedial Action Plan 
SEA Œ Senate Enrolled Act 
SRCER Œ Stream Reach and Characterization and Evaluation Report 
SSO Œ Sanitary Sewer Overflow 
SSS Œ Sanitary Sewer System 
TARP Œ Tunnel and Reservoir Project 

TMDL Œ Total Maximum Daily Load 
WDNR Œ Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources WWTP Œ Wastewater Treatment Plant vi               
   
        
   
 
   
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Glossary This glossary includes a collection of the terms 
used in this manual and an explanation of each 
term. To the extent that 
definitions and explanations provided in this glossary differ from those 
in EPA regulations or other official documents, they are intended
 for use in understanding this 
manual only. B Best Available Technology 
Economically Achievable 
(BAT) Œ Technology-
based standard 
established by the Clean 
Water Act as the most 

appropriate means 
available on a national 
basis for controlling the 

direct discharge of toxic 
and nonconventional 
pollutants to navigable 

waters. Best Conventional Pollutant Control Technology 
(BCT) Œ Technology-
based standard for the 
discharge from existing 

industrial point sources 
of conventional 

pollutants including 
biochemical oxygen 
demand, total suspended 

solids, fecal coliform, pH, 
oil and grease. The BCT 
is established in light of a 
two-part ﬁcost 
reasonablenessﬂ test. The 

first test compares the 
cost for an industry to 
reduce its pollutant 
discharge of conventional 
pollutants with the cost 

for a POTW for similar  
levels of reduction in 
their discharge of these 
pollutants. The second 
test examines the cost 

effectiveness of additional 

industrial treatment 
beyond Best Practicable 
Technology Currently 
Available (BPT). EPA 
must find limits that are 
reasonable under both 
tests before establishing 
them as BCT. C Clean Water Act Œ The Clean Water Act is an act  

passed by the U.S. 
Congress to control water 
pollution. It was formerly 
referred to as the Federal 

Water Pollution Control 
Act of 1972 or the Federal 
Water Pollution Control 
Act Amendments of 1972 

(P.L. 92-500), 33 U.S.C. 
1251 et. seq., as amended 
by: P.L. 96-483; P.L. 95˜

217, 97-117, 97-440, and 
100-04. Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO) Œ A discharge of 
untreated wastewater 
from a combined sewer 

system at a point prior to 
the headworks of a 

publicly owned treatment 
works. Combined Sewer System (CSS) Œ A municipal 
wastewater collection 
system that conveys 
domestic, commercial, 
and industrial 

wastewaters and 
stormwater through a 
single pipe system to a 
publicly owned treatment 
work treatment plant. Construction Grants Program Œ Federal 

assistance program 
authorized under Section 

201 of the Clean Water 
Act to make grants to 
states, municipalities, and 
intermunicipal or 
interstate agencies for the 
construction of publicly 
owned treatment works. Conventional Pollutants Œ As 
defined by the Clean 
Water Act, conventional 

pollutants include BOD, 
TSS, fecal coliform, pH, 

and oil and grease. vii                             
                    
                         Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
CSO Control Policy Œ EPA 
published the CSO 

Control Policy on April 
19, 1994 (59 FR 18688). 
The policy includes 
provisions for developing 

appropriate, site-specific 

NPDES permit 
requirements for 
combined sewer systems 

that overflow as a result 

of wet weather events. D Dissolved Oxygen (DO) Œ 
The oxygen freely 
available in water, which 
is vital for sustaining fish 
and other aquatic life as 
well as for preventing 

odors. DO levels are 
considered one of the 
most important 

indicators of a 
waterbody™s ability to 
support desirable aquatic 

life. Secondary treatment 
and advanced waste 
treatment are generally 
designed to ensure 
adequate DO in waste-

receiving waters.  
Dry Weather Flow 
Conditions Œ Hydraulic 
flow conditions within 
the combined sewer 
system resulting from 
one or more of the 

following: flows of 

domestic sewage; ground 
water infiltration; 
commercial and 

industrial wastewaters; or 
any other non-
precipitation event-
related flows (e.g., tidal 

infiltration under certain 
circumstances).  
E ˜Environmental Impact Œ Any 
change to the 
environment, whether 
adverse or beneficial, that 
wholly or partially results 
from an organization™s 
activities, products, or 

services. F Floatables and Trash  Œ 
Visible buoyant or semi-

buoyant solids including 
organic matter, personal 
hygiene items, plastics, 
styrofoam, paper, rubber, 

glass and wood.  
H Headworks of a Wastewater 
Treatment Plant Œ The 
initial structures, devices 

and processes provided at 
a wastewater treatment 
plant including 
screening, pumping, 
measuring, and grit 

removal facilities. I Infiltration Œ Storm water and groundwater that 
enter a sewer system 

through such means as 
defective pipes, pipe 

joints, connections, or 
manholes. (Infiltration 
does not include inflow). Infiltration/Inflow (I/I) Œ The 
total quantity of water 

from both infiltration 
and inflow. Inflow Œ Water, other than

       wastewater, that enters a         

       sewer system from      

       sources such as roof    

       leaders, cellar drains,   

       yard drains, area drains, 
foundation drains, drains        from springs and swampy       

       areas, manhole covers,     
cross connections     

between storm drains and   
       sanitary sewers, catch 
basins, cooling towers, 
       storm waters, surface 

       runoff, street waste    

       waters, or other drainage.  

       (Inflow does not include  
infiltration). L Long-Term Control Plan 
(LTCP) Œ Water quality-
based CSO control plan 

that is ultimately 

intended to result in 

compliance with the 
Clean Water Act. Long-
term control plans 

consider the site-specific 
nature of CSOs and 
evaluate the cost 
effectiveness of a range of 
controls. M Million Gallons per Day (mgd) Œ A unit of flow 
commonly used for 
wastewater discharges. 
One mgd is equivalent to 

a flow rate of 1.547 cubic 

feet per second over a 24˜
hour period. viii                                                                                           
             Glossary N ˜National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Œ The national 
program for issuing, 

modifying, revoking and 
reissuing, terminating, 
monitoring and 
enforcing permits, and 
imposing and enforcing 
pretreatment 
requirements, under 
Sections 307, 318, 402, 
and 405 of the Clean 
Water Act. Nine Minimum Controls (NMC) Œ Technology-
based CSO controls that 

do not require significant 
engineering studies or 
major construction, as 
specified in the CSO 
Control Policy. Nutrient Œ A compound that is necessary for 

metabolism. Nitrogen 
(N) and Phosphorus (P) 

are required in relatively 
large amounts by cells.  

Nutrients, in appropriate 
amounts, are essential to 
the health and continued 

functioning of natural 
ecosystems. Excessive 
nutrient loading, 
however, will result in 

excessive growth of 

macrophytes or 
phytoplankton and 

potentially harmful algal 

blooms (HAB), leading 
to oxygen declines, 
imbalance of prey and 

predator species, public 
health concerns, and 
general decline of aquatic 
resources. P ˜Point Source Œ Any 
discernible, confined, and 
discrete conveyance, 
including but not limited 

to any pipe, ditch, 

channel, tunnel, conduit, 
well, discrete fixture, 

container, rolling stock, 
concentrated animal 
feeding operation, 
landfill leachate 

collection system, vessel, 

or other floating craft 

from which pollutants 
are or may be discharged. 
Primary Treatment Œ First steps in wastewater 
treatment wherein 
screens and 
sedimentation tanks are 
used to remove most 
materials that float or will 

settle. Section 301(h) of 
the Clean Water Act, 
which addresses waivers 
from secondary 
treatment for discharges 
into marine waters, 
defines primary or 
equivalent treatment as 

that adequate to remove 

30 percent of BOD and 

30 percent of suspended 

solids. Publicly Owned Treatment 
Works (POTW) Œ As defined by Section 212 of the Clean Water Act, a treatment works that is 
owned by a state or municipality. This definition includes any 

devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling, and 

reclamation of municipal 
sewage or industrial 
wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes sewers, 

pipes, and other 
conveyances only if they  
convey wastewater to a 
POTW treatment plant. 
S Sanitary Sewer Overflow 
(SSO) Œ An untreated or partially treated sewage 

release from a sanitary 

sewer system. Sanitary Sewer System (SSS) 
Œ A municipal wastewater 
collection system that 
conveys domestic, 
commercial and 

industrial wastewater, 
and limited amounts of 

infiltrated ground water 
and storm water, to a 
POTW. Areas served by 
sanitary sewer systems 
often have a municipal 

separate storm sewer 
system to collect and 
convey runoff from 
rainfall and snowmelt.   
Secondary Treatment Œ Technology-based 

requirements for direct 
discharging municipal 
sewage treatment 

facilities. 40 CFR 133.102 
defines secondary 
treatment as 30 day 
averages of 30 mg/l BOD
5 and 30 mg/l suspended 
solids, along with 

maintenance of pH 
within 6.0 to 9.0 (except 

as provided for special 

considerations and 

treatment equivalent to 

secondary treatment). State Revolving Fund Program Œ A federal 

program created by the 
Clean Water Act 
Amendments in 1987 
that offers low-interest 
loans for wastewater 
treatment projects. 
ix           Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
T ˜Total Suspended Solids (TSS) Œ A measure of the 
filterable solids present in 
a sample of water or 
wastewater (as 
determined by the 
method specified in 40 

CFR Part 136). 
Toxics Œ Materials contaminating the 

environment that cause 
death, disease, and/or 

birth defects in organisms 
that ingest or absorb 
them. The quantities and 

length of exposure 
necessary to cause these 
effects can vary widely. 
W ˜Water Quality Standard Œ A law or regulation that 
consists of the beneficial 

use or uses of a 
waterbody, the numeric 
and narrative water 
quality criteria that are 
necessary to protect the 
use or uses of that 
particular waterbody, and 
an antidegradation 
statement. Water Quality-Based Effluent 
Limitations Œ Effluent 
limitations applied to 
dischargers when technology-based 
limitations are 
insufficient to result in  
the attainment of water 

quality standards. Waters of the United States Œ Waters of the United States is defined at 40 

CFR §122.2. Wet Weather Event Œ A discharge from a 

combined or sanitary 

sewer system that occurs 

in direct response to 
rainfall or snowmelt.   
Wet Weather Flow Œ Dry weather flow combined 

with stormwater 
introduced into a 
combined sewer, and dry 
weather flow combined 

with inflow in a separate 
sanitary sewer. x            Executive Summary Report to Congress on Combined Sewer ˜Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin˜ The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is transmitting this Report 
to Congress on combined sewer overflows (CSOs) in the Lake Michigan 
basin. CSOs can occur in combined 
sewer systems (CSSs), which are defined 

as collection systems that carry both 

wastewater and storm water in the same pipe. A CSO is defined as ﬁthe 
discharge from a CSS at a point prior to 
the publicly-owned treatment works 
(POTW) treatment plant.ﬂ Points in the 

collection system at which CSOs occur 
are called CSO discharge points. Some CSOs discharge infrequently, while 
others discharge every time it rains.  

Overflow frequency and duration varies 

from system to system and from outfall 
to outfall within a single CSS. Because CSOs contain untreated wastewater and 

storm water, they contribute microbial 

pathogens and other pollutants to 
surface waters. CSOs can impact the environment and human health. 
Specifically, CSOs can cause or 
contribute to water quality impairments, 
beach closures, contamination of 
drinking water supplies, and other environmental and human health 
problems. This report presents EPA™s most recent 
assessment of the occurrences of CSOs 

in the Lake Michigan basin, the enforcement of existing regulations 
concerning such discharges, and the 

future steps EPA plans to take to 
minimize such overflows. Overview and Background˜ 
Why is EPA Preparing this Report to Congress? 
This report has been prepared in response to a congressional direction in 

H.R. Rep. No. 108Œ674 at 101 (September 9, 2004). The Committee is concerned about the 
occurrences of combined sewage 

overflow from wastewater treatment 
facilities into Lake Michigan. The committee is also concerned that existing regulations concerning such 

discharges are not sufficiently 

enforced so as to prevent negative 
impacts on the Lake Michigan ecosystem. The co
mmittee directs the 
EPA to report, by September 30, 2005, 
outlining what future steps it plans to 
take to minimize such overflows.  
What Methodology did EPA Use 
for this Report to Congress? 
The basic study approach for this report was to collect data and report on CSO 
implementation and enforcement 
activities in the Lake Michigan basin, 
which includes parts of Indiana, 
Michigan, Wisconsin, and Illinois. This ESŒ1˜           Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
approach principally entailed the review of existing state, EPA headquarters, and 
EPA Region 5 permit and enforcement 
files, as well as other federal and state 

databases. This report is centered on a 

summarization, presentation, and 
description of existing state and EPA information on CSOs in the Lake Michigan basin. Data presented in this report were 
collected from previously published or 
previously available state, regional, and local data sources (for example, data on overflows into Lake Michigan in Illinois 
were taken from the Metropolitan Water 
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago 

(MWRDGC) website at http://www.mwrdgc.dst.il.us/mo/csoap p/default.htm, while data on CSOs in 
Indiana were compiled from Discharge 
Monitoring Reports (DMRs) submitted 
to the Indiana Department of 
Environmental Management (IDEM) by each CSO community as part of these 
communities™ National Pollutant 

Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) 

requirements; a full discussion of the 
data collection methodology used in this report is provided in Chapter 3). No 

attempts were made to interpret data to 

reconcile differences in reporting 

methods or data collection timeframes, primarily due to the fact that there is no 
specific guideline in the CSO Control 
Policy for CSO data collection, and 
therefore such comparisons or 

reconciliation attempts might lead to misrepresentations of the original data. Therefore, readers are cautioned against 

attempting to draw conclusions 
between localities because of the 

differences in data sets. Yet despite the differences between the data sets, EPA believes that the data present general 

information that is characteristic of the 

extent of CSOs in th
e Great Lakes area. What Statutory and Regulatory 
Framework Applies to CSOs? The Clean Water Act establishes national goals and requirements for maintaining and restoring the nation™s waters. CSOs 

are point source discharges subject to 
the technology-based and water 
quality-based requirements of the Clean 
Water Act, but not subject to the 
secondary treatment standards that 
apply to discharges from POTWs. EPA issued a CSO Control Policy on April 19, 1994 (59 FR 18688). The CSO Control Policy ﬁrepresents a comprehensive national strategy to 
ensure that municipalities, permitting 
authorities, water quality standards 

authorities, and the public engage in a comprehensive and coordinated effort to achieve cost-effective CSO controls 

that ultimately meet appropriate health 

and environmental objectives.ﬂ 
When the CSO Control Policy was released, many stakeholders, key 
members of Congress, and EPA 
advocated for it to be endorsed in the 
Clean Water Act to ensure its full 
implementation. In the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2001, P.L. 106-554, Congress amended the Clean Water Act to add Section 402(q), which provided that: ...each permit, order, or decree issued pursuant to this Act after the date of enactment of this subsection for a 

discharge from a municipal combined 
storm and sanitary sewer shall 
conform to the CSO Control Policy signed by the Administrator on April 11, 1994. ESŒ2 ˜        
  Executive Summary Figure ES.1 Location of CSO Communities in 
the Lake Michigan Basin The shaded area defines the Lake 
Michigan basin, which includes portions 

of Indiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, and 
Illinois. The white circles (
•) indicate Lake Michigan CSO communities. The 

black circle (•) indicates Chicago. What is the Occurrence of CSOs in the Lake Michigan Basin? The Lake Michigan basin includes portions of northern Indiana, 
approximately half of Michigan, eastern Wisconsin, and a small section of northeast Illinois. There are currently 30 
CSO communities with 347 CSO outfalls 

that discharge within the Lake Michigan 
basin. Eighteen of the Lake Michigan CSO communities are in Indiana, 11 are 
in Michigan, and one is in Wisconsin. 
There are no Lake Michigan CSO 

communities in Illinois. 
Chicago is not considered to be a Lake Michigan CSO community. Chicago- 
area CSOs drain away from Lake  

Michigan to the Mississippi River basin 
under most wet weather conditions. 
However, Chicago-area CSOs have the 
potential to impact Lake Michigan under certain wet weather conditions. 

This can occur when flow in Chicago- 
area rivers is reversed and is directed to 

Lake Michigan to prevent flooding-related property damage. In addition to flow reversals, there are two Chicago-

area CSOs that have the potential to 

discharge directly to the lake, although 

they have not done so since 2003. 
Because of Chicago™s proximity to the lake and the potential for CSO 

discharges, EPA has included a 

discussion of Chicago-area CSOs (e.g., 
past CSO discharges and current CSO control efforts) in this report, where 
appropriate. The locations of CSO communities in the 
Lake Michigan basin, along with major 
tributaries and state boundaries, are presented in Figure ES.1. The majority of 
these CSO communities are located 

inland along rivers that drain to Lake 

Michigan. ESŒ3˜            
  Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
What is the Extent of Impacts to the Lake Michigan Basin Caused 
by CSOs? 
CSO discharges include a mix of domestic, commercial, and industrial 

wastewater, and storm water runoff. 

CSOs contribute pollutant loadings to 
waterways where discharges occur. The 
principal pollutants found in CSOs are: • .Microbial pathogens • .Oxygen-depleting substances • .Total suspended solids • .Toxics • .Nutrients • .Floatables and trash Pollutant concentrations in CSOs vary substantially based on weather 
conditions, the characteristics of the 
sewer system, the service population,  

the treatment provided to the CSO, and 
other factors. WATER QUALITY
 IMPAIRMENT 
EPA documented that CSOs cause human health and environmental 
impacts in two recent national 
assessments of CSOs: 
Report to CongressŠImplementation and Enforcement of the Combined Sewer 
Overflow Control Policy (EPA 2001b) and Report to CongressŠImpacts and Control of CSOs and SSOs (EPA 2004b). EPA 
found that pollutant concentrations in CSOs may be sufficient to cause 
violations of water quality standards, precluding the attainment of one or 
more of the designated uses (e.g., 

recreation or drinking water supply) for 
the waterbody. CSOs often discharge simultaneously with storm water, wet weather sanitary sewer overflows  
(SSOs), and other nonpoint sources of 
pollution. EPA recognizes this can make 
it difficult to identify and assign specific cause-and-effect relationships between 
CSOs and observed water quality 
problems. In the Lake Michigan basin, EPA found:   
• .In Indiana, all 18 CSO communities in the Lake Michigan basin 
discharge in the vicinity of 303(d)˚
impaired waters. Thirteen of these 
communities discharge to waters 

where pathogens (
E. coli
) and/or siltation were cited as reasons or 

causes of impairment. • .In Michigan, 10 of the 11 CSO 
communities in the Lake Michigan 

basin discharge to 303(d)Œ 
impaired waters. The waters in close proximity to the 11th CSO community, Norway, have not 
been assessed. Three CSO 

communities in Michigan 
(Manistee, Niles, and St. Joseph) discharge to 303(d)-listed waters 
that specifically cite ﬁCSO˚

pathogen (Rule 100)ﬂ as a source 

of impairment. In addition, three CSO communities (East Lansing, Lansing, and Crystal Falls) 

discharge to waterbodies where 
pathogens or pathogens and 
dissolved oxygen are cited as reasons or causes of impairment. 
• .In Wisconsin, the Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District (MMSD) operates the only CSS in 
the Lake Michigan basin. MMSD™s CSOs discharge to, or in close proximity to, 303(d)-impaired 
waters where pathogens and/or  

dissolved oxygen have been cited 
as reasons or causes of 
impairment. ESŒ4 ˜           
   Executive Summary The proximity of a CSO outfall to an impaired water segment does not in and of itself demonstrate that the CSO is 
the cause of the impairment. EPA 
believes the association between CSO 

location and impaired waters is due to a number of factors in addition to CSO discharges. For example, CSOs are 

generally located in urban areas where 

waterbodies also receive relatively high 
volumes of storm water and other pollutant loads. Nevertheless, the strong correlation between CSO location and 

impaired waters does suggest that CSOs 
should be considered as a potential 
source of pollution when developing a total maximum daily load (TMDL) for an impaired waterbody. DESIGNATED
 USE IMPAIRMENT 
EPA™s BEACH (Beaches Environmental 

Assessment and Coastal Health) 

Program compiles and reports on beach monitoring and notification activities for the nation™s coastal recreational waters 
on an annual basis. A total of 165 Lake 
Michigan beaches had at least one 
beach advisory or closing during the 2000-2004 swimming seasons. Elevated bacteria levels accounted for 94 percent 
of recreational use impairments, which 
were manifested as beach advisories 

and closings. Approximately 81 percent of the advisories and closings in Lake Michigan were caused by an unknown 
source of pollution. CSOs were reported 

to be responsible for two percent of 
total reported advisories and closings, and eight percent of advisories and 
closings where a known source was 

identified. At the local level, CSOs were reported to be a source of pollution for eight percent and 18 percent of all beach advisories and closings in LaPorte 

County and Porter County, Indiana, 

respectively. CSOs were also cited as a 
source of pollution for approximately three percent of the beach advisories 
and closings in Cook Country, Illinois, 
and Milwaukee County, Wisconsin. GREAT LAKES AREAS OF CONCERN Great Lakes Areas of Concern (AOCs) are 

severely degraded areas within the Great Lakes basin. The Great Lakes 
Water Quality Agreement, as amended 

via the 1987 protocol, directs the U.S. 
and Canadian governments to 

cooperate with state and provincial governments to develop and implement Remedial Action Plans 
(RAPs) for each AOC. Ten AOCs have 

been identified within the Lake 
Michigan basin. Three of the Lake Michigan AOCsŠGrand Calumet, Menominee River, and Manistique River 
AOCsŠspecifically mention CSOs. What is the Status of CSO Control in the Lake Michigan Basin? All four of the Lake Michigan states are authorized to issue NPDES permits. The 
NPDES authorities in each state have 

developed specific strategies and 
programs for addressing CSO discharges in their states. EPA oversees these 
permitting programs and provides 
funding support to the states. Both the 

states and EPA have independent 

authority to take enforcement actions 
for violations of the Clean Water Act, including permit violations. • .In Indiana, there are 18 CSO communities in the Lake Michigan 
basin; permits for 17 of the 18 
communities require 
implementation of the nine 
minimum controls (NMC) and 
development of a long-term 
control plan (LTCP). One CSO community, Albion, does not have NMC or LTCP requirements  
ESŒ5˜            Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
because it eliminated its CSOs through sewer separation prior to 
the LTCP submission requirement. Fifteen of the 17 communities with 

LTCP requirements have 
submitted plans that are currently 
under review by the IDEM and/or EPA. The LTCP for Michigan City 
has been approved. The permit for 

the Gary Sanitation District 
requires the submission of an 
LTCP, but does not specify a submittal date. IDEM is currently developing a new permit that will 
clarify LTCP submittal 
requirements. 
• .In Michigan, all 11 CSO communities in the Lake Michigan 
basin have NMC and LTCP requirements in their permits, and 

all 11 have submitted LTCPs that 

have been approved by the 

Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ). A variety of CSO controls are being 
implemented in Michigan. • .In Wisconsin, Milwaukee is the only CSO community that discharges 
within the Lake Michigan basin. The CSO permit issued to MMSD 
contains NMC and LTCP 
requirements. MMSD constructed 

a large inline storage system (ISS) to store and convey wet weather 
flows that has significantly 

reduced CSOs. MMSD is also 
subject to a 2001 stipulation 
agreement requiring it to construct several SSO projects. For most wet weather events, 

Milwaukee™s combined sewer 
flows are captured by the ISS, 
where they are stored until they 
can be pumped to one of the  
treatment plants for treatment. 
CSOs occur during very large wet  
weather events when there is not 

enough storage capacity in the ISS. MMSD™s permit requires that CSOs be limited to no more than six 
overflows per year, consistent with 

the presumption approach in the 
CSO Control Policy. Since the ISS began operation in 1994, MMSD has averaged approximately three 

CSO events per year. A new LTCP is 
scheduled for completion in 2007. 
On October 27, 2005, the State of Wisconsin filed a complaint against MMSD for SSO and CSO 

discharges to the Menomonee 

River, Milwaukee River, and Lake 
Michigan. • .In Illinois, CSOs in the Chicago metropolitan area have the 
potential to impact Lake Michigan 
under certain wet weather 

conditions. The Tunnel and 
Reservoir Project (TARP) was approved as the LTCP for the 
MWRDGC, the City of Chicago, and 
40 satellite communities. The TARP 

project is designed to capture 
combined sewer overflows from 
369 sewer overflows, 303 of which 
could backflow into Lake Michigan 
during intense storm conditions. 
The storage of combined sewage 

in TARP tunnels and TARP 
reservoirs, that are to be 
constructed, will reduce the 
possibility of backflows during 
these storm events. Construction 

of TARP began in 1976 and has been implemented in two phases. The first phase, which focused on 

reducing CSO discharges, is 
complete and greatly reduced CSO 
discharges to Chicago-area waters. 
The second phase provides flood control benefits as well as 
increased capture of combined 

sewage in the tunnel and reservoir 
ESŒ6 ˜               Executive Summary system. The current estimate for 
completion of TARP is 2015. 
What Actions is EPA Taking to 
Reduce the Impacts of CSOs? EPA believes that a sound regulatory 
program is in place that will lead to full 
implementation of the CSO Control Policy to protect Lake Michigan from water quality impacts related to CSO 

discharges. Significant progress has 

been made in reducing CSO discharges 
to Lake Michigan, most notably in the Chicago and Milwaukee Metropolitan areas, but also in many smaller 

communities. Many CSO controls are in 

the process of being implemented to 
further reduce the potential impacts on the lake. Planning for additional CSO 
controls is underway as communities 

comply with requirements under NPDES 
permits and enforcement orders. EPA is 

engaged in active discussions to establish enforceable schedules for the 
implementation of LTCPs in the Lake 
Michigan basin. The CSO Control Policy includes expectations that NPDES permitting authorities would issue permits consistent with the provisions of the 

policy. In general, EPA envisioned a 
phased permit approach, including 
initial requirements to implement the NMC and develop an LTCP, followed by requirements to implement the controls 
in the approved LTCP.  The Wet Weather 

Water Quality Act of 2000 requires that 
each permit issued pursuant to the 
Clean Water Act for a discharge from a 
municipal CSS shall conform to the CSO 
Control Policy. EPA is working with state NPDES 
authorities to ensure that CSO  
communities are un
der enforceable requirements to comply with the Clean Water Act and the CSO Control Policy. Specific EPA activities include oversight  
of state NPDES permit actions and enforcement actions, review of state  

water quality standards related to CSO 

discharges, provision of financial and 
technical assistance, and federal 
enforcement actions.  
EPA has developed work plans and Memoranda of Agreement with states 

to ensure that state enforcement efforts 

on CSOs are consistent with federal efforts and the CSO Control Policy. Some activities undertaken to ensure 
consistency between EPA and state 
efforts include periodic reporting, work-
sharing arrangements, and discussions of case-specific issues. EPA will continue to work cooperatively with the state 
NPDES authorities to assure that 

consistent approaches to address CSO 

control are sought at the state and 
federal levels. EPA will continue to 
explore work-sharing opportunities in 
order to utilize federal and state 
resources more efficiently. Bringing all CSOs, including those within the Lake Michigan basin, into compliance with the Clean Water Act 

and the CSO Control Policy is a vital step 

in ensuring that surface waters are safe 

for fishing, swimming, and public water supply. However, other sources of 
pollution (e.g., nonpoint sources, storm 
water runoff, SSOs, and wastewater 

treatment system bypasses) must also 

be addressed before these goals can be fully realized. 
ESŒ7˜             
        
      Chapter 1 Introduction ˜This Report to Congress presents the 

U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency™s (EPA) most recent 
assessment of the occurrences of 

combined sewer overflows (CSOs) 

from wastewater treatment facilities 
in the Lake Michigan basin, the enforcement of existing requirements 
concerning such discharges, and the 

future steps EPA plans to take to 
minimize such overflows. This report 
has been prepared in response to a 
congressional directive in H.R. Rep. 
No. 108-674 at 101 (September 9, 
2004): The Committee is concerned about 

the occurrences of combined 
sewage overflow from wastewater treatment facilities into Lake 

Michigan. The committee is also 
concerned that existing regulations 

concerning such discharges are not sufficiently enforced so as to 
prevent negative impacts on the 

Lake Michigan ecosystem. The 
committee directs the EPA to report, 

by September 30, 2005, outlining what future steps it plans to take to 
minimize such overflows. 
EPA prepared this report between 
March and December 2005. During 
this time, EPA developed a methodology for data collection; collected data from federal and state 
sources; performed analyses; and  
wrote this report. EPA emphasized the collection, compilation, and analysis of existing data for this 

report. This Report to Congress follows two CSO reports required as part of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2001, P.L. 106-554 (or ﬁ2000 

amendments to the Clean Water 

Actﬂ). The first report was transmitted 
to Congress in December 2001 as Report to CongressŠImplementation 
and Enforcement of the Combined 

Sewer Overflow Control Policy 
(EPA 2001b). The second report was 
transmitted to Congress in August 
2004 as Report to CongressŠImpacts 
and Control of CSOs and SSOs (EPA 2004b). 1.1 What are Combined Sewers and CSOs? There are two types of public wastewater collection systems in the 

United States: combined sewer 
systems (CSSs) and separate sanitary 
sewers (SSSs). CSSs were among the 
earliest sewer systems constructed in 
the United States and were built until 

the first part of the 20th century. As defined in the 1994 CSO Control 
Policy (EPA 1994), a CSS is: 1Œ1˜        
         Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
A municipal wastewater collection 
system that conveys domestic, commercial, and industrial 
wastewaters and stormwater through a single pipe system to a 
publicly owned treatment work 

(POTW) treatment plant.  
The combined volume of wastewater and storm water runoff entering CSSs 
often exceeds conveyance capacity 
during wet weather events. Most CSSs 

are designed to discharge flows 
directly to surface waters (e.g., rivers, 
streams, estuaries, and coastal waters) 
when their conveyance capacity is 
exceeded, as shown in Figure 1.1. These discharges are called CSOs. A 
CSO is defined as: The discharge from a CSS at a point 

prior to the POTW treatment plant. Some CSO outfalls discharge 
infrequently, while others discharge 

every time it rains. Overflow 
frequency and duration vary from system to system and from outfall to 

outfall within a single CSS. When 

constructed, CSSs were typically sized 
to carry three to five times the 
average dry weather flow. Thus, there 
is usually considerable conveyance 

capacity within a CSS during dry 
weather. Discharges from a CSS 

during dry weather, which are 
referred to as dry weather overflows, 
are infrequent and are prohibited 

under the national pollutant 
discharge elimination system (NPDES) 

program. CSSs can back up into 
buildings, including private residences and commercial establishments. These discharges 
provide a direct pathway for human 
contact with untreated sewage and 
can pose risks to human health. Typical Combined Sewer System Figure 1.1 1Œ2˜           
     Chapter 1ŒIntroduction CSO discharges include a mix of domestic, commercial, and industrial 

wastewater, and storm water runoff. 
As such, CSO discharges contain human, commercial, and industrial 

wastes, as well as pollutants washed 
from streets, parking lots, and other 

surfaces. These CSO discharges are 
highly variable, both in terms of the specific pollutants in an individual 
CSO discharge, and also in the 

concentrations of those pollutants in 
that discharge (see Chapter 4 of the 
2004 Report to CongressŠImpacts and Control of CSOs and SSOs). Pollutant concentrations in CSO discharges are determined by a number of factors, 
including the service population, the 
characteristics of the CSS, weather 
conditions, and any treatment 
provided to the CSO. CSOs can impact the environment and human health. Specifically, CSOs 
can cause or contribute to water 
quality impairments, beach closures, 
shellfish bed closures, contamination 

of drinking water supplies, and other 
environmental and human health 
problems (EPA 2004b). CSO permits are issued to the owners and operators of two types of CSSs:  
• .CSSs owned and operated by the same entity that owns and operates the receiving POTW • .CSSs that convey flows to a POTW 
owned and operated by a 
separate entity under a different 

NPDES permit As of September 2005, 824 active CSO 
permits have been issued to 746 
communities in 32 states (including 

the District of Columbia). These 
permits regulate 9,119 CSO discharge points. Most of the communities served by CSSs are located in the 

Northeast and Great Lakes regions as 
shown in Figure 1.2. Additional information on CSOs is provided in Report to CongressŠ Impacts and Control of CSOs and SSOs 
(EPA 2004b). 1Œ3˜        
         
  Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
National Distribution of 
CSSs CSSs are most heavily 
concentrated in the Northeast and Great Lakes 
regions. 
Figure 1.2 1.2 What Comprises the  
Lake Michigan Basin? Lake Michigan is the second largest 
Great Lake by volume (approximately 1,180 cubic miles of water), and it is 

the only Great Lake entirely within the 

United States. As shown in Figure 1.3, 

Lake Michigan is approximately 307 
miles long and 118 miles wide, and it 
has more than 1,600 miles of 
shoreline. It averages 279 feet in 
depth, with a maximum depth of 925 

feet. The Lake Michigan drainage 
basin covers 45,600 square miles, 
which is approximately twice as large as the surface area of the lake, and 

includes portions of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin. The lake™s 
northern reach is relatively 

undeveloped, while the southern 
basin includes the Milwaukee, 
Chicago, and northwest Indiana 
metropolitan areas (Environment Canada and EPA 1995). Lake Michigan supports many beneficial uses: drinking water supply; 

internationally significant habitat and natural features; food production and processing; fish for food, 
sport and culture; and valuable commercial and recreational uses. Most shoreline 

areas along Lake Michigan support swimming and secondary contact recreation (LMTC 2004). 1Œ4˜           
              Chapter 1ŒIntroduction Map of Lake Michigan Basin The shaded area delineates 
the Lake Michigan drainage 
basin. Figure 1.3 1.3 How is this Report Organized? The purpose of this report is to respond to Congress with a current 
assessment of the occurrences of 

CSOs in the Lake Michigan basin, the 
enforcement of existing regulations 

concerning such discharges, and the 
future steps EPA plans to take to minimize such overflows. The report 
includes this introduction plus four 
additional chapters. The content and 
purpose of each subsequent chapter are summarized below. • .Chapter 2 summarizes the history of regulatory efforts to control 
CSOs. • .Chapter 3 describes the location of CSO outfalls, by state, in the Lake Michigan basin. This chapter summarizes available information  

on the occurrence of CSO discharges in the basin. The 

chapter also documents reported 

environmental impacts 
attributable to CSO discharges in terms of water quality standards 
violations and lost uses (i.e., beach 
closures). • .Chapter 4 evaluates the status of CSO control, by state, in the Lake 
Michigan basin. The chapter 
presents state-specific approaches 
to addressing CSOs in the Lake 

Michigan basin and documents 
the issuance of permits and other enforceable orders requiring control of CSOs. The chapter then 

describes the technologies used 
by CSO communities to control 
CSO discharges, including operation and maintenance practices, sewer system controls, storage facilities, treatment 
technologies, and low-impact 

development techniques. 1Œ5˜        
    Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
• Chapter 5 presents report 
findings and key considerations for EPA in developing future 

actions to minimize CSO 
discharges in the Lake Michigan 
basin. 1Œ6˜                                Chapter 2 Regulation of CSOs ˜This chapter summarizes the history of 
federal CSO control efforts. It then 
describes the principles and objectives of 
the CSO Control Policy (EPA 1994) and 
presents EPA targets related to CSO 
control. Additional information on the 
federal framework for CSO control is 
provided in EPA™s Report to CongressŠ Implementation and Enforcement of the 
CSO Control Policy (EPA 2001b) and 
Report to CongressŠImpacts and Control of CSOs 
and SSOs (EPA 2004b). Information on stateŒspecific programs to control CSO 

discharges is described in Chapter 4. 2.1 What is the History of Federal CSO Control 
Efforts? The Clean Water Act establishes national goals and requirements for maintaining and restoring the nation™s waters. As point source discharges, CSOs are subject 
to the technology-based and water 
quality-based requirements of the Clean 

Water Act. CSOs are not subject to limits based on secondary treatment requirements otherwise applicable to 
POTWs. NPDES permits for CSOs must 

include technology-based effluent limits 
based on the application of best available technology economically achievable (BAT) for toxic and non-conventional 

pollutants and best conventional pollutant control technology (BCT) for conventional pollutants. Additionally, like all NPDES permits, permits authorizing 
discharges from CSO outfalls must 
include more stringent water quality-
based requirements, when necessary, to 
meet water quality standards.  
The development of the federal 
framework to address CSOs is described 

in detail below. The discussion on CSO 
control history summarizes findings from Report to CongressŠImplementation and 
Enforcement of the Combined Sewer 

Overflow Control Policy (EPA 2001b). 2.1.1 Initial Efforts to Control 
CSOs In 1965, Congress authorized funding for 
research, development, and 
demonstration of techniques for 
controlling CSOs and storm water. The absence of an explicit mandate for CSO 
control, however, meant that the CSO 
problem received little attention. Passage 
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendment of 1972 (P.L. 92Œ500), commonly known as the Clean Water Act, 
focused greater attention on CSOs.  
The Clean Water Act established the regulatory framework for controlling point source dischargers through the NPDES program. This legislation also 
established the Construction Grants 
Program for wastewater infrastructure 
(Clean Water Act Section 201). Most 2Œ1˜            Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
investment in municipal facilities during 
the 1970s focused on POTW upgrades (to 
secondary and advanced treatment) and expansion, not on wet weather issues. However, some communities used 

Construction Grants Program funds for 

CSO control projects. 2.1.2 CSO Case Law 
In 1980, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 
D.C. Circuit accepted EPA™s interpretation 
of the Clean Water Ac
t that discharges at 
CSO outfalls are not discharges from 
POTWs, and thus are not subject to limits based on secondary treatment standards 

otherwise applicable to discharges from POTW plants (
Montgomery Environmental 
Coalition vs. Costle, 646 F2d 568 [D.C. Cir. 
1980]). Following this decision, EPA and states renewed their focus on permit 

requirements for CSO discharges under 
the NPDES program. 2.1.3 National Municipal Policy 
on POTWs 
EPA™s 1984 National Municipal Policy on Publicly Owned Treatment Works (NMP) 
provided an impetus for control of all 

discharges from municipal sewer 
systems, including CSOs (EPA 1984). The 
NMP encouraged collaboration between EPA and states to address compliance 
with the Clean Water Act at POTWs. The 
NMP focused EPA™s compliance efforts on three types of POTWs: those that had 
received federal funding and were out of 

compliance, all major POTWs, and minor 

POTWs that discharged to impaired 
waters. The NMP recommended that 
each EPA region draft a strategy to bring POTWs into compliance with the Clean 
Water Act. The NMP was intended to 
facilitate compliance at all POTWs by July 
1, 1988. While the main focus of the NMP was to ensure that POTWs complied with secondary treatment and water quality-

based NPDES requirements, many 
enforcement actions brought under the 

NMP addressed CSO problems at POTWs. 2.1.4 ˚National CSO Control 
Strategy and the Management Advisory 
Group In 1989, EPA issued the National CSO Control Strategy (54 FR 37371). The 
National CSO Control Strategy encouraged 
states to develop statewide permitting strategies to ensure all CSOs were subject 
to an NPDES permit. Six minimum 
measures for CSO control were 

recommended: • .Proper operation and regular maintenance • .Maximum use of the collection 
system for storage • .Review and modification of 
pretreatment programs 
• .Maximum flow delivery to the 
POTW for treatment  
• .Prohibition of dry weather 
overflows • .Control of solid and floatable 
materials in CSO discharges Additional controls could be required as 
necessary. As EPA, states, and 
municipalities worked to implement the National CSO Control Strategy in the early 

1990s, the impacts of CSOs continued to 

receive national attention. Environmental 

interest groups pushed
 for further action, 
and municipal organizations, concerned 
that the National CSO Control Strategy 

did not provide sufficient clarity, sought a 
consistent national approach to CSO 

control. In response to these concerns, EPA 
formed a Management Advisory Group 
(MAG) in 1992. The MAG included 2Œ2˜           Chapter 2ŒRegulation of CSOs representatives from states, 
municipalities, industry associations, and 
environmental interest groups. In addition to continuing with the six minimum controls identified in the 
National CSO Control Strategy, the MAG 
recommended three additional measures 
(MAG 1992): • .Inspection, monitoring, and reporting of CSOs • .Pollution prevention, including 

water conservation, to reduce CSO 
impacts • .Public notification for any areas 
affected by CSOs, especially beach 
and recreational areas 
The MAG recommended that EPA begin a 
dialogue with key stakeholders to better 

define the Clean Water Act expectations 

for controlling CSOs. A workgroup of CSO stakeholders was assembled during the summer of 1992. The workgroup 
achieved a negotiated dialogue that led 
to agreement on many technical issues; 
however, no consensus was reached on a 
policy framework. Individuals from the workgroup representing stakeholder 
groups met in October 1992 and 
developed a framework document for 
CSO control that served as the basis for 
EPA™s draft CSO Control Policy issued for public comment in January 1993 (MAG 

1993). 2.1.5 CSO Control Policy 
EPA published the CSO Control Policy on 
April 19, 1994 (59 FR 18688). The purpose 
of the CSO Control Policy was two-fold: 1) to elaborate on EPA™s 1989 National CSO Control Strategy; and 2) to expedite 
compliance with Clean Water Act 
requirements. The CSO Control Policy 
ﬁrepresents a comprehensive national strategy to ensure that municipalities, permitting authorities, water quality standards authorities, and the public 
engage in a comprehensive and coordinative effort to achieve costŒ effective CSO controls that ultimately 
meet appropriate health and 

environmental objectives.ﬂ The policy 
sought to minimize adverse impacts from CSOs on water quality, aquatic biota, and human health. More information on the 
CSO Control Policy and its objectives is 

presented in Section 2.2. 
2.1.6 Wet Weather Water Quality Act When the CSO Control Policy was 
released, many stakeholders, key 
members of Congress, and EPA advocated that it be endorsed in the 

Clean Water Act to ensure its full 
implementation. In December 2000, as 

part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (P.L. 106Œ554), 
Congress amended the Clean Water Act 
by adding Section 402(q). This 

amendment is commonly referred to as 
the Wet Weather Water Quality Act of 2000. Section 402(q) requires that each 
permit, order, or decree issued pursuant 

to the Clean Water Act after the date of 

enactment for a discharge from a 
municipal CSS shall conform to the CSO Control Policy. P.L. 106Œ554 also: • .Required EPA to issue guidance to 
facilitate the conduct of water quality and designated use reviews 
for CSO receiving waters. EPA issued 
this guidance on August 2, 2001 
(EPA 2001a) • .Required EPA to submit two CSO Reports to Congress (EPA 2001b, EPA 2004b) 2Œ3˜          Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
• .Required EPA to develop and maintain a clearinghouse of 
technologies for addressing the 

impacts of CSO and sanitary sewer overflow (SSOs) discharges  
2.2 What is the CSO Control Policy? The CSO Control Policy provides guidance to CSO communities, NPDES authorities, and water quality standards 
authorities for planning, selecting, and 
implementing CSO controls. The policy 

established four key principles to ensure 

that CSO controls are cost-effective and 
meet the objectives of the Clean Water Act: 1. ˚Provide clear levels of control that 
would be presumed to meet 
appropriate health and environmental objectives 2. ˚Provide sufficient flexibility to municipalities, especially financially disadvantaged communities, to 

consider the site-specific nature of CSOs and to determine the most 
cost-effective means of reducing 
pollutants and meeting [Clean 
Water Act] objectives and 
requirements 
3. ˚Allow a phased approach to 
implementation of CSO controls 
considering a community™s financial 
capability 4. ˚Provide for review and revision, as 
appropriate, of water quality 

standards and their implementation 
procedures when developing CSO 

control plans to reflect the site-
specific wet weather impacts of 
CSOs EPA™s CSO Control Policy established objectives for CSO communities and expectations for NPDES and water quality 

standards authorities. The policy assigns 
primary responsibility for its implementation and enforcement to NPDES authorities and water quality 

standards authorities. It also presents 

elements of an enforcement and 

compliance program to address CSOs 
that overflow during dry weather and for 
enforcement of NPDES permits issued in 

accordance with the CSO Control Policy.  
2.2.1 Objectives for CSO 
Communities Objectives for CSO communities with 

NPDES permits are 1) to implement the 
nine minimum controls (NMC) and submit documentation on NMC implementation; and 2) to develop and 
implement a long-term control plan 
(LTCP). There are certain circumstances, 

which the 1994 CSO Control Policy 
anticipated, where a permittee would not have to develop an LTCP (59 FR 18690). The NMC are: 
1. ˚Proper operation and regular maintenance programs for the 
sewer system and the CSOs 
2. ˚Maximum use of the collection system for storage 3. ˚Review and modification of pretreatment requirements to 

assure CSO impacts are minimized 
4. ˚Maximize flow to the POTW for treatment 
5. ˚Prohibition of CSOs during dry weather 6. ˚Control of solids and floatable 
materials in CSOs 7. ˚Pollution prevention 
8. ˚Public notification to ensure that the public receives adequate 2Œ4˜    Chapter 2ŒRegulation of CSOs notification of CSO occurrences and CSO impacts 
9. ˚Monitoring to effectively characterize CSO impacts and the 
efficacy of CSO controls Municipalities were expected to 

implement the NMC and to submit 
appropriate documentation regarding compliance with the NMC to NPDES 
authorities as soon as reasonably 
possible, but no later than January 1, 1997. In addition to implementing the NMC, CSO communities are expected to develop and implement an LTCP that 
includes measures to provide for 

attainment of water quality standards. 
The policy identified nine elements that an LTCP should include. These are: 1. ˚Characterization, monitoring, and 
modeling of the CSS 2. ˚Public participation 
3. ˚Consideration of sensitive areas 
4. ˚Evaluation of alternatives 

5. ˚Cost/performance considerations 

6. ˚Operational plan 

7. ˚Maximization of treatment at the POTW treatment plant 8. ˚Implementation schedule 
9. ˚PostŒconstruction compliance 
monitoring LTCP implementation schedules were expected to include project milestones and a financing plan for design and 
construction of necessary controls as 
soon as practicable (EPA 1994). 2.2.2 Expectations for Permitting 
Authorities 
The CSO Control Policy expected 
permitting authorities to undertake the 
following: • .Review and revise, as appropriate, 
state CSO permitting strategies developed in response to the National CSO Control Strategy • .Develop and issue permits requiring 
CSO communities to 1) immediately 
implement the NMC and document their implementation; and 2) develop and implement an LTCP • .Promote coordination among the CSO community, the water quality 

standards authority, and the 

general public through LTCP 
development and implementation • .Evaluate water pollution control needs on a watershed basis and coordinate CSO control with the 
control of other point and nonpoint 

sources of pollution • .Recognize that it might be difficult for some small communities to 
meet all of the formal elements of 

LTCP development, and that 

compliance with the NMC and a 
reduced scope LTCP may be sufficient • .Consider sensitive areas, use impairment, and a CSO 
community™s financial capability in 

the review and approval of 
implementation schedules 2Œ5˜           Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
2.2.3 Coordination with Water Quality Standards: Development, Review, and 

Approval Communities develop and implement LTCPs to meet water quality standards, including the designated uses and criteria 

to protect those uses for waterbodies 

that receive CSO discharges. The CSO 
Control Policy recognized that substantial coordination and agreement among the 
permitting authority, the water quality 
standards authority, the public, and the 
CSO community would be required to 
accomplish this objective. The CSO Control Policy also recognized that the 
development of the LTCP should be 
coordinated with the review and 
appropriate revision of water quality standards and their implementation procedures. 2.2.4 Enforcement and Compliance The CSO enforcement effort described in 

the CSO Control Policy was to commence 
with an initiative to address CSOs that 

occur during dry weather. This was to be 
followed by an enforcement effort in conjunction with CSO permitting: 
Under the CWA [Clean Water Act], 

EPA can use several enforcement 
options to address permittees with 
CSOs. Those options directly applicable to this Policy are Section 
308 Information Requests, Section 
309(a) Administrative Orders, Section 

309(g) Administrative Penalty Orders, Section 309(b) and (d) Civil Judicial 
Actions, and Section 504 Emergency 
Powers. NPDES states should use 

comparable means. EPA recognized that the success of the 
enforcement effort would depend on 
expeditious action by NPDES authorities in issuing enforceable permits with NMC 
requirements and other Clean Water Act 

requirements. Enforcement priorities 
were to be based upon human health 
impacts, environmental impacts, and 
impacts on sensitive areas. 2.3 What Targets Have Been ˜Established for CSOs? ˜EPA understands that achieving the goal 

of complete control of CSOs will be a 
long-term effort and will require large 
capital investments on the part of CSO communities. In order to continue to 

make progress in meeting that goal, 

EPA™s Office of Water and Office of 

Enforcement and Compliance established 
interim targets for CSO control. In 
addition, the U.S. Policy CommitteeŠa 
forum of senior-level representatives from federal, state, 
and tribal government agenciesŠestablished annual CSO targets for the Great Lakes as part of the 
Great Lakes Strategy. 2.3.1 EPA Targets for CSO Control As part of its Nat
ional Water Program Guidance for FY06, EPA™
s Office of Water established the following target for CSO control: By 2008, 75 percent 
of CSO permittees will have schedules in place in permits 

or other enforceable mechanisms to 
implement approved LTCPs (EPA 

2006). 2Œ6˜                                                                         Chapter 2ŒRegulation of CSOs To date, 40 percent of the CSO communities in the Lake Michigan basin 

have enforceable schedules to 
implement approved LTCPs.1,2 
In its Performance-based Strategy for 
CSOs, EPA™s Office of Enforcement and 

Compliance Assistance established six 

goals, including one specific to LTCPs: By the end of FY07, 65% of all 

permitted CSOs (2004 baseline) have 
an approved Long Term Control Plan 
with an enforceable schedule that will 
ultimately result in compliance with 
the technologyŒbased and water 
qualityŒbased requirements of the 

Clean Water Act, or action has been 
initiated to achieve that result (EPA 

2004a). Currently, 40 percent of the CSO 

communities in the Lake Michigan basin 

have approved LTCPs.
1,2 
2.3.2 Great Lakes Strategy 
Targets for CSO Control The Great Lakes Strategy 2002 was 
developed by the U.S. Policy Committee 
to advance the restoration and protection of the Great Lakes Basin Ecosystem (USPC 2002). The Strategy is 

focused on U.S. federal, state and tribal 
government environmental protection 

and natural resource management 
activities as they relate to fulfilling the goals of the Great Lakes Water Quality 

Agreement. The U.S. Policy Committee 
1 Chicago-area CSOs are not included in these 
   measures; Chicago-area CSOs drain away from 
   Lake Michigan under most wet weather 

   conditions. 
2 Forty percent (12 of 30) of CSO communities in 
   Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin are 

   implementing approved LTCPs. An additional    community, Albion, Indiana, completed sewer 

   separation and was not required to develop an 
LTCP. will set overall priorities and coordinate the development of individual actions 
and commitments by each agency to achieve the goals, objectives, and actions 
in this Strategy. The Strategy established specific targets 
for the Great Lakes with respect to CSO 
control: By 2005, 100% of all combined sewer 
overflow (CSO) permits in the Great 

Lakes basin will be consistent with the 

national CSO [Control] Policy. All 
issued/reissued permits for CSO 
discharges will contain conditions that conform to the national CSO 
[Control] policy, and states will 
prioritize the reissuance of CSO 
permits under their permit backlog strategies (USPC 2002). Progress towards meeting this target for 
CSO permittees in the Lake Michigan 

basin is listed below by state:1 INDIANA: All 18 CSO permits in the Lake Michigan basin are 
consistent with the CSO Control 

Policy. • .MICHIGAN: All 11 CSO permits in the Lake Michigan basin are 
consistent with CSO Control Policy. • .WISCONSIN: The only Wisconsin 
CSO permit in the Lake Michigan 
basin is consistent with the CSO 

Control Policy. 2Œ7˜                       Chapter 3 CSO Discharges to Lake Michigan ˜This chapter describes the location of CSO outfalls and the occurrence of CSO 
discharges in the Lake Michigan basin. 

The chapter also describes the types of 
impacts caused by or attributed to CSOs. The chapter then documents 

CSO-related impacts identified through 
national programs, including the 
National Water Quality Inventory 
(NWQI) of assessed waters under Section 305(b) of the Clean Water Act; 
listings of impaired waters identified by 
states under Section 303(d) of the Clean 
Water Act; recreational use impairments tracked under the BEACH (Beaches 
Environmental Assessment and Coastal 

Health) Program; and impacts 

associated with Great Lakes Areas of 
Concern (AOC). Data collected for two recent CSO Reports to Congress (EPA 

2001b, EPA 2004b), where relevant to 
the Lake Michigan basin, were updated 

for this report. 
3.1 How were the Data 
Collected? Data presented in this chapter were 
collected from previously published or available state, regional, and local data 
sources. Because ther
e is no specific guidance in the CSO Control Policy for 
CSO data collection, reporting, or CSO volume quantification, data collected by the responsible agencies vary greatly 
among states, and even among 
localities when localities are responsible for collecting and reporting CSO-related 
data. The individual sources for the CSO data used in this Report are summarized 
below. Each summary provides the 

name of the agency submitting the 

data and background information on how the data were collected. Indiana NPDES permits in Indiana contain language requiring communities to monitor CSO discharge volume using a 
flow measurement device.  CSO 

volumes for individual communities are 
reported on DMRs. In order to compile 
CSO volumes for Indiana communities, EPA requested hard copies of DMR 

reports from each CSO community and 
tabulated the CSO volumes from each 
DMR received. Michigan In Michigan, CSO discharge volume is monitored and reported by each individual community. No standard 
method for monitoring and recording is 
required by the state. Each community proposes its own methodology for approval by the state. Some communities use flow meters. 
Others use estimates based on models 
or other methods. For example, the 

East Lansing, Michigan permit states that East Lansing must report the 
3Œ1˜                  Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
amount of discharge measured in accordance with the procedures 

approved by the Michigan Department 

of Environmental Quality (MDEQ). The 
city must also report the reason for the 
discharge and the time the discharge 
began and ended. The permit also 

states that the city shall estimate the 

volume and quality of discharges. CSO discharge volumes in Michigan are reported on the web page: 
www.deq.state.mi.us/csosso/. Wisconsin In Wisconsin, the only CSS in the Lake Michigan Basin is managed by the 
Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District (MMSD). MMSD estimates CSOs 
using a computer model that takes into 
account the impact of the river 
elevation on overflow volumes. The 

actual CSO flows are not measured.  
MMSD reports these flows to Wisconsin 
DNR on a quarterly basis. 
Illinois In Illinois, Chicago is not considered to be a Lake Michigan CSO community. 
However, under certain wet weather 

conditions, Chicago-area CSOs have the 

potential to impact Lake Michigan. Data on potential CSO impacts in Lake Michigan were provided by the 
Metropolitan Water Reclamation 

District of Greater Chicago (MWRDGC). 
These data were taken from the 
MWRDGC website at http://www.mwrdgc.dst.il.us/mo/csoap 
p/default.htm. MWRDGC calculates 

river reversals into the lake at three 

waterway controlling works using the theoretical discharge formula for flow 
through an opening under pressure 

which is: Q (flow rate) = cA(2gh)^1/2, where c = discharge coefficient A = area of orifice 
g = gravity 
h = head or the depth of the water to 
the center point of the orifice.   
River reversal events are monitored by 
MWRDGC personnel, and those data are 
entered either every 5 or 15 minutes to 
best reflect the actual event.  The MWRDGC formula has been reviewed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
and by an independent panel of 
specialists. Summary As discussed, there is no specific 
guidance in the CSO Control Policy for 
CSO data collection, reporting, or CSO volume quantification. The data 
collection, reporting, and volume 
quantification methods used range 
from flow monitoring to computer 

modeling to other forms of estimating. Therefore CSO data can vary greatly 
among states, and even among 
localities when localities are responsible 
for collecting and reporting CSO-related 
data. In addition to the variability in CSO data generated due to the different data 

collection methodologies, modeled 
data also contain inherent uncertainty 
owing to the assumptions underlying the modeling. Both the MMSD and the 

MWRDGC use modeling approaches to 
generate their reported CSO data. 
Michigan does not require a standard method for determining CSOs, and it is 
likely that some Michigan communities 
use modeling as well. Therefore, the 

uncertainty inherent in the data 
modeling must be considered when 
reviewing CSO data generated using 
modeling approaches. Because of the inherent differences 
among the different states and 3Œ2˜            Chapter 3ŒCSO Discharges to Lake Michigan 
municipalities in the way data were collected, EPA limited the scope of its 
data interpretation to avoid drawing 
potentially inaccurate conclusions from 

the data. As described, the data 
presented in this chapter were 
collected and compiled from 
previously-published or available 
sources. No primary data were collected and no raw data were analyzed or 
interpreted for this Report. In addition, 
the limited availability of CSO data on 
the state and local 
level led to the inclusion of data sets from different 

localities or states that cover different 
time periods. No attempts were made 
to adjust these data for a specific time 
period. Readers should not attempt to 

draw time-dependent comparisons for 

these data. Despite the differences between the 
data sets summarized in this Report, 
EPA believes that the data present 

general information that is 

characteristic of the extent of CSOs in 
the Lake Michigan basin. 3.2 What is the Occurrence  
of CSOs to Lake Michigan and its Tributaries? For the purpose of this report, the term ﬁCSO communityﬂ refers to an entity or 

entities (e.g., municipal government, 
sanitary district) that hold an NPDES 
permit for CSO discharges. There are 30 
CSO communities with 347 CSO outfalls 
that discharge to the Lake Michigan 
basin. Eighteen of these communities are in Indiana, 11 are in Michigan, and one is in Wisconsin. There are no Lake 

Michigan CSO communities in Illinois. 
Chicago is not considered to be a Lake 
Michigan CSO community. Chicago-

area CSOs drain away from Lake 

Michigan to the Mississippi River basin 
under most wet weather conditions. However, under certain wet weather 
conditions, Chicago-area CSOs have the 

potential to impact Lake Michigan. This 
can happen when flow in Chicago-area 
rivers is reversed and directed to Lake Michigan to prevent flooding-related 
property damage. In addition to flow 
reversals, there are two Chicago-area 

CSOs that have the potential to 

discharge directly to Lake Michigan, 
although they have not done so since 
2003. Because of Chicago™s proximity to 
the lake and the potential for CSO 

discharges during certain wet weather 
events, EPA has included a discussion of 
Chicago-area CSOs (e.g., past CSO 
discharges and current CSO control 

efforts) in this report. 
The location of CSO communities in the Lake Michigan basin, along with major rivers and state boundaries, is presented in Figure 3.1. Approximately one-third of 

the CSO communities (9 of 30) are 
located within 10 miles of the Lake 
Michigan shoreline. The majority are located inland along rivers that drain to 
Lake Michigan. The number of active CSO outfalls for 
each CSO community in the Lake 
Michigan basin and the 2005 average 
daily flow at the wastewater treatment 
plant (WWTP) are presented in Table 3.1. 
Sixty percent (18 of 30) of the CSO 
communities in the ba
sin have five CSO outfalls or fewer. 3Œ3˜        Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
Location of CSO Communities in 
the Lake Michigan Basin The shaded area defines the Lake 
Michigan basin. The white circles (
•) indicate Lake Michigan CSO 
communities. The black circle (
•) indicates Chicago. 
Figure 3.1 3.2.1 Volume and Frequency  
of CSO Discharges CSO permittees in the Lake Michigan 
basin are required to report CSO frequency and volume information to 
their state NPDES authority. State 

reporting requirements differ among 
the Lake Michigan states. For example, 

Indiana tracks the number of days 
during which CSO discharges occur, while Michigan tracks CSO 
events. Data on CSO frequency and volume reported by CSO communities in the Lake Michigan basin are presented in this section. For a given CSO 
community, the frequency and 
volume of observed/estimated CSO 

discharges can vary substantially from year to year due to natural variations in 
rainfall and snowmelt conditions. Due to the variability in rainfall-related discharges from community to 
community, differences in time frames 
represented, differences in the  
definitions of CSO events, and 
limitations in the accuracy and 
availability of discharge volume 
information, EPA has not attempted to 

draw any comparisons or conclusions 
regarding the data. However, this information does provide an indication 
of the relative magnitude of discharges 
within the Lake Michigan basin. 3Œ4˜               
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
           Lake Michigan CSO Community Information  
Table 3.1 Chapter 3ŒCSO Discharges to Lake Michigan 
CSO Community 
State Number of CSO 
Outfalls
a 2005 Average Daily Flow 
at the WWTP Million 
Gallons per Day (MGD) 
0bAlbion IN 0.18 Angola IN 1 1.19 Chesterton IN 1 2.66 Crown Point IN 4 2.76 East Chicago IN 3 10.08 Elkhart IN 39 14.29 Gary IN 11 40.02 Goshen IN 6 3.91 Hammond IN 20 32.48 Kendallville IN 1 1.63 Ligonier IN 
1 0.83 Michigan City IN 1 6.34 0bMilford IN 
0.18 Mishawaka 
IN 18 11.93 Nappanee IN 13 1.15 South Bend IN 44 32.83 Valparaiso IN 
1 4.27 Wakarusa IN 6 0.23 Crystal Falls MI 1 0.57c East Lansing MI 1 12.81 Grand Rapids 
MI 11 56.28 Iron Mountain Œ Kingsford 
MI 1 1.67 Lansing MI 27 16.13 3Œ5˜             
                  c Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
CSO Community 
State Number of CSO 
Outfalls
a 2005 Average Daily Flow 
Million Gallons per Day 
(MGD) 
Manistee MI 4 0.96 Lake Michigan CSO Community Information continued 
Table 3.1 Manistique MI 1 1.19 Menominee MI 0b 1.48 Niles MI 8 2.79 Norway 
MI 1 0.28 St. Joseph MI 5 8.64d Milwaukee WI 117 172.8 Total CSO outfalls in Lake Michigan basin: 
347 Chicago-area CSOs: (369)e Total CSO outfalls including Chicago-area CSOs: 
(716)e a It should be noted that the presence of 
an outfall does not necessarily imply CSO di
scharge; it only indicates the potential for a discharge. 
b Outfalls have been separated or eliminated. No NPDES permit effluent data because POTW discharges to groundwater. Discha
rge to groundwater allowed May through 
October, so daily maximum allowed flow 
could be estimated at one-half of the 1.14 MGD design flow or 0.57 MGD. 
d Benton Harbor Œ St. Joseph POTW 
e 303 of the 369 Chicago-area CSO outfalls discharge to Chicago area rivers that originally flowed into Lake Michigan, but which 
currently discharge into the Mississippi River basin due to a ca
nal and lock system. CSO flows captured by the Chicago Tunnel a
nd Reservoir Project (TARP) system are transported and stored for eventual treatment at wastewater treatment facilities.  These 30
3 CSOs, if they do overflow, can backflow into Lake Michigan duri
ng intense rain storms if the locks along Lake Michigan are open
ed to prevent loss of life and widespread property damage.  The need fo
r backflow events has been redu
ced by the ability of TARP Phas
e 1 storage tunnels to capture CSO flows and will be further reduced 
by TARP Phase 2 storage basins which are anticipated to be 
completed by 2015. 3Œ6˜                        
      Chapter 3ŒCSO Discharges to Lake Michigan 
Indiana CSO Community 
Number of Days with CSO Discharges 2005 Average 
Daily Flow at WWTP (MGD) 
Indiana CSO Discharge 
Information 
This table shows the number of days Indiana CSO communities reported CSO 

discharges and the CSO volume 
discharged, to the Lake Michigan basin 
(September 1, 2004ŒJune 30, 2005). 
Table 3.2 CSO Volume 
Million Gallons 
(MG) 0aAlbion 0 0.18 Angola 2 2.6 1.19 Chesterton 2 --
b 2.66 Crown Point 3 4.9 2.76 East Chicago 76 194.6 10.08 Elkhart 53 172.1 14.29 Gary 37 109.2 40.02 Goshen 3 1.0 3.91 Hammond 102 911.8 32.48 Kendallville 0 0 1.63 Ligonier 21 1.9 0.83 Michigan City 3 1.1 6.34 0cMilford 0 
0.18 Mishawaka 
43 55.9 11.93 Nappanee 62 85.4 1.15 South Bend 64 918.3 32.83 Valparaiso 3 
31.2 4.27 
Wakarusa 6 -˚d 0.23 Total: 2,490 
a Completed sewer separation ˜
b Incomplete volume estimate
 (estimated for 1 of 2 days) ˜
c CSO outfall eliminated April 20, 2005 ˜d No volume estimate; 176 hours of overflow reported during the 10-month period.˜ 
INDIANA Indiana Department of Environmental 
Management (IDEM) has required CSO communities to report CSO discharges 

that occur as a result of wet weather 
through a standardized CSO DMR since 
October 2001. CSO DMRs must be submitted every month, even if no 
CSOs occur (IDEM 2005). 
The number of days with CSO discharges and the CSO volume  

discharged for a recent 10-month 
period (September 1, 2004ŒJune 30, 
2005) reported by Indiana CSO communities in the Lake Michigan 
basin are summarized in Table 3.2. As shown, Indiana communities in the 
Lake Michigan basin discharged 
approximately 2,490 MG of combined 
sewage during this period. This can be 
compared to the 50,255 MG of flow through the WWTPs in these 
communities that received treatment 

during this same period (166.96 MGD 
total average daily flow for these 
WWTPs multiplied by 301 days during the reporting period of September 1, 
2004 Œ June 30, 2005). 3Œ7˜            
  
            Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
Annual CSO Frequency for 
Michigan CSO Communities in the 
Lake Michigan Basin: 2003Œ2004 
Ten CSO Communities reported CSO 
events in 2003 and 2004. The 11
th CSO Community, Menominee, separated its CSS and eliminated all CSO outfalls. Figure 3.2 0 5 
1015 
Crystal Falls˜ 
East Lansing˜ 
Grand Rapids˜ 
Iron Mtn-Kingsford 
Lansing 
Manistee 
Manistique 
Niles 
Norway 
St. Joseph 
MICHIGAN 
CSO communities in Michigan are required to notify the Michigan 
Department of Environmental Quality 
(MDEQ) within 24 hours of the onset of 
a CSO event. A ﬁCSO eventﬂ is defined 
as a discharge from one or more CSO 
outfalls in response to a single wet 
weather event. After the discharge 
ends, the CSO community must submit a report on the CSO event, including 
the location and volume of the 
discharge as well as the start/end date 

and time. MDEQ compiles the event  
CSO Event 
20 2530354045 
2003 
2004 
information into annual reports, and it 

publishes CSO event information 
along with SSO data on its CSO and SSO 
Discharge Information web page 
(http://www.deq.state.mi.us/csosso/). The frequency of CSO events for 
Michigan CSO communities in the Lake 

Michigan basin for the period 2003 

through 2004 is shown in Figure 3.2. The annual CSO volumes reported by these Michigan CSO communities are 
shown in Table 3.3 for the period 2003 
through 2004. CSO communities also report the level of treatment provided 
to the CSO discharge. That is, partially 3Œ8˜                                                                    Chapter 3ŒCSO Discharges to Lake Michigan 
treated sewage, where treatment 
usually consists of solids removal and some disinfection (partially treated 
CSO), or diluted raw sewage (no CSO 

treatment). Some communities did not 
specify the level of treatment provided. 
As shown in Figure 3.2 and Table 3.3, 
the frequency and volume of 

observed/estimated CSO discharges 

vary substantially from year to year. This 
is principally due to natural variations in rainfall and snowmelt that affect the 
annual volume of CSOs. For the 

Michigan CSO communities in the Lake 
Michigan basin, total reported CSO volume was 41 percent higher in 2004 than in 2003. In May 2004, many parts 
of Michigan experienced a storm event 

approximating a once in 25-year, 24˚
hour rainfall event that contributed to 
greater CSO volumes in 2004 than in the previous year (MDEQ 2005). The increase in partially treated CSO 
from 2003 to 2004 resulted from the 
increase in CSO volume available for treatment, and not necessarily from an 
increase in treatment capacity. 2003 2004 Community 
Partially Treated CSO (MG) No CSO Treatment (MG) Treatment Not Specified (MG) Partially Treated CSO (MG) No CSO Treatment (MG) Treatment Not Specified (MG) Crystal Fallsa East Lansing 6.30 
1.30 
Grand Rapids 6.18 4.94 
186.39 
6.18 
Iron Mountain-Kingsford 
11.68 
2.10 
28.32 
Lansing 353.16 
420.44 
Manistee 2.45 
10.25 
Manistique 0.01 
2.17 
Niles 4.40 
2.80 
1.18 
Norway 0.41 
0.61 
1.20 
St. Joseph 10.72 
0.79 
0.97 
15.36 
1.72 
Totals 17.86 
384.08 
1.20 219.09 
456.88 
2.92 Annual CSO Volumes for Michigan 
CSO Communities in the Lake 

Michigan Basin: 2003-2004 
Annual CSO volumes were 403.14 MG 
and 678.89 MG for the years 2003 and 
2004, respectively. 
Table 3.3 a CSO volumes were not specified on MDEQ web page. 
3Œ9˜          Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
WISCONSIN 
In Wisconsin, MMSD manages the only Wisconsin CSS in the Lake Michigan 
basin. The annual CSO frequency and 

volume reported for Milwaukee for the period 1998 through 2004 is presented in Table 3.4. In its original estimate for 
2004, MMSD reported CSO discharges 
totaling 4,142 MG resulting from 

particularly heavy rains in May of that 
year. It was later discovered that the computer model used to estimate CSO 
volume had not been applied properly,  and MMSD subsequently revised its 

estimate to 1,088 MG in a press release. 

This revision corresponds to a 70 
percent decrease in the CSO volume estimated for the year 2004 (MMSD 2004). Reported CSO volumes were re˚

calculated and MMSD developed 
revised model results for the period 

1998 through 2004. The revised CSO volumes are shown with the originally reported CSO volumes in Table 3.4. On 

average, MMSD reported three CSO 

events per year for the last seven years. 
No CSOs occurred during 2003. MMSD Annual CSO Frequency and 
Volume: 1998Œ2004 
This table shows the CSO volumes originally reported and later revised by 
MMSD. Table 3.4 Year Frequency (No. of Events) Originally Reported CSO Volume 
(MG) Revised CSO Volume  
(MG) 1998 2 629 892 1999 6 4,106 4,313 2000 5 3,490 1,944 2001 4 464 165 2002 2 440 580 2003 0 0 0 2004 3 4,142 1,088 3Œ10˜                  Chapter 3ŒCSO Discharges to Lake Michigan 
Map of Chicago Area with Three Waterway-Controlling Works 
 Œ Indicates a waterway controlling 
works where river reversals can occur. 
Figure 3.3 ILLINOIS 
In the Chicago metropolitan area, there are 369 CSO outfalls owned by the City of Chicago, the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater 

Chicago (MWRDGC), and 40 tributary 
communities. Chicago-area CSOs 

discharge to the Chicago River, the 
Des Plaines River, the Chicago 
Sanitary and Ship Canal, and the 
Calumet River systems. These 
waterways drain away from Lake 

Michigan during most wet weather conditions. Consequently, the majority of CSO events in the Chicago 
metropolitan area do not affect Lake 
Michigan. However, the gates at the 

waterway controlling works that separate the Chicago-area waters and 
Lake Michigan are opened during 
certain heavy rainfall events in order 

to prevent local flooding. River water 

affected by CSOs is discharged to the 
lake during these river reversals. When this occurs, discharges from  
303 of the 369 Chicago-area CSO 
outfalls have the potential to impact Lake Michigan in this manner. River 
reversals that discharge CSO-  

impacted flow to Lake Michigan can 
occur at three waterway-controlling works in the Chicago area: O'Brien Lock & Dam, Chicago River 
Controlling Works (CRCW), and 
Wilmette Pump Station (Figure 3.3). The frequency and volume of river 
reversals to Lake Michigan are summarized for a 20-year period 
(1985Œ2004) in Table 3.5 (MWRDGC 
2005b). The volume of river reversals 

does not directly correspond with the volume of CSO discharged to the lake. It does, however, provide an indication 

of periods when CSO discharges could 
cause or contribute to water quality 

impacts in Lake Michigan. As shown in Table 3.5, no river reversals have 
occurred since 2002, when 1.7 billion 

gallons (BG) of river water impacted by 3Œ11˜                                                                                                                          Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
CSO discharges were diverted to Lake 
Michigan. Two additional CSO points are located at MWRDGC pump stations on the 
Lake Michigan side of the O™Brien Lock & Dam. These CSOs have the 

potential to discharge to the Lake 
Michigan basin independent of a river 
reversal. MWRDGC reports that these 
CSOs have not discharged to the Lake Michigan basin since 2003.  
MWRDGC maintains an on-line map showing CSO events in the Chicago 
area. The system displays the water segments that have received CSO discharges and indicates whether 

discharges to Lake Michigan have occurred 
(http://www.mwrd.org/mo/csoapp/d 

efault.htm). 
Chicago-Area River Reversals to 
Lake Michigan: 1985Œ2005 
River reversals that discharge CSO-
impacted water can occur at three 
waterway controlling works: O™Brien 
Lock & Dam, CRCW, and Wilmette Pumping Station. This table shows the 
volume of water (MG) discharged to 

Lake Michigan during river reversals. 
Table 3.5 Year Date O'Brien Lock 
& Dam (MG) CRCW (MG) Wilmette Pump Station 
(MG) Total Volume of 
River Reversals 
(MG) Aug-6 58 581985 
Mar-4 153 
153 
1986 
Oct-3 53 53 Aug-25 to Aug-26 
18 181987 
Aug-13 to Aug-14 
986 
971 
1,957 
1988 
None 0 1989 
Aug-3 to Aug-4 52 52 Nov-27 to Nov-28 224 
86 154 
464 
Aug-17 to Aug-18 
10 101990 
May-9 to May-10 208 
289 
497 
1991 
None 0 1992 
None 0 1993 
None 0 1994 
None 0 1995 
None 0 1996 
July-17 to July-18 1,032 519 
1,551 
Aug-16 to Aug-17 
402 
157 
559 
1997 
Feb-20 to Feb-22 
1,458 
1,947 
774 
4,179 
1998 
None 0 1999 
Jun-13 
10 10 2000 
None 0 Oct-13 91 91 Aug-31 75 752001 
Aug-2 883 
140 
1023 
2002 
Aug-22 1,296 455 1,751 
2003 
None 0 2004 
None 0 2005 
None 0 3Œ12˜                    Chapter 3ŒCSO Discharges to Lake Michigan 
3.3 What Problems are Caused by CSO Discharges? EPA documented that CSOs cause or contribute to environmental and human health impacts in two recent national assessments of CSOs: 
Report to CongressŠImplementation and 

Enforcement of the Combined Sewer 

Overflow Control Policy (EPA 2001b) and Report to CongressŠImpacts and Control of CSOs and SSOs (EPA 2004b). Pollutant concentrations in CSOs 
alone may be sufficient to cause a 

violation of water quality standards in a particular waterbody, precluding 
the attainment of one or more of the 

designated uses (e.g., swimming and 
fishing) for that waterbody. It is 
important to note that impacts from CSOs are often compounded by impacts from other sources of 
pollution. CSOs can discharge 
simultaneously with SSOs, storm 

water runoff, agricultural runoff, and 
other nonpoint sources of pollution. This makes it difficult to identify and 
assign cause-and-effect relationships 

between CSO events and specific 

impairments. The principal pollutants identified in CSOs are oxygen-depleting 

substances, total suspended solids, 
microbial pathogens, toxics, nutrients, 
and floatables and trash. The designated uses that are likely to be 
impaired by each of these pollutants 
are summarized in Table 3.6. 3.3.1 Water Quality Impacts  
Attributed to CSO: 
305(b) Assessments and 
303(d) Impairments 
EPA™s National Water Quality Inventory (NWQI) 2000 Report (EPA 2002) is a national assessment that identified 
the types of pollutants or stressors most often found to impair the 
assessed waters and the leading 
sources of these pollutants. The NWQI 2000 Report is based on a compilation of individual state assessments. Five thousand sixty-six (5,066) miles of the 
total of 5,521 miles of the Great Lakes 

shoreline (92 percent) were assessed 
for the NWQI 2000 Report
. For Lake 
Michigan, 100 percent of the shoreline miles were assessed for at 
least one use (Section 305(b) reports 
for Indiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, and 
Illinois, 2000). Overall, EPA found that the three 
pollutants most often associated with impaired waters of the United States 
were solids, pathogens, and nutrients. 
All of these pollutants are typically 
present in CSO discharges. 
Specifically, the NWQI 2000 Report showed that the three pollutants most often associated with impaired 
miles of Great Lakes shoreline are 
priority toxic chemicals, nutrients, and pathogens (NWQI 2000, p. 34). Therefore, CSOs can be assumed to 

contribute to the loading of these 

pollutants to waterbodies where CSO 

discharges occur. Reporting of the source of impairment varies widely from state 
to state. CSOs are tracked as a specific 

pollutant source in many, but not all, 
states that have CSSs. The lack of 
uniformity in state assessments and 
reporting makes it difficult to fully 
identify the magnitude of CSO 
impacts. 3Œ13˜                    
     
     
    
   
   
  
  
   Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
The NWQI 2000 Report did not cite CSOs as a leading source of impairment in any of the five 
waterbody types assessed: rivers and streams; lakes, rivers, and ponds; 

estuaries and bays; ocean shoreline, 

and Great Lakes shorelines. 
Nationally, CSOs were identified as a 

source of impairment for 1,466 square miles (5 percent) of assessed estuaries and 56 miles (1 percent) of Great 
Lakes shoreline. 
IMPAIRMENT 
IN THE LAKE MICHIGAN 
BASIN Waters designated as impaired are 

included on a state™s 303(d) list. A 

total maximum daily load (TMDL) is required for each pollutant causing impairment. For this report, EPA 
compared CSO permittee locations 
with water segments identified in the 
Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin 303(d) lists of impaired waters. Of the 
reported 303(d) impairments, CSOs 

would be most likely to contribute to 
pathogen, organic enrichment, and 
sediment and siltation impairments Pollutants of Concern in 
CSOs Likely to Cause or 
Contribute to Impairment 
Aquatic LifeSupport 
Drinking WaterSupplyFishConsumption 
ShellfishHarvestingRecreation Oxygen-demanding 
substances • Sediment (TSS) • Microbial Pathogens • • • • 
Toxics • • • Nutrients • • 
Floatables and Trash 
• Pollutants of Concern in CSOs that 
Are Likely to Cause or Contribute 
to Impairment 
The pathogens present in CSO 
discharges have the potential to impact 
several designated uses, including 

drinking water supply, fish 

consumption, and recreation. 
Table 3.6 3Œ14˜              Chapter 3ŒCSO Discharges to Lake Michigan 
because of the pollutants found in CSOs. However, as discussed above, 
different communities vary widely in 
the frequency, length, and loading 
from CSO discharges. However, it is important to note that the proximity of a permitted CSO 
outfall to an impaired segment does 
not in and of itself demonstrate that 

the CSO is the cause of the impairment. It does suggest, however, that CSOs should be considered as a 
source of pollution with respect to 

TMDL development. The results of this analysis are summarized below by state. In Indiana, all 18 CSO communities in the Lake Michigan basin discharge in 
the vicinity of 303(d)-impaired waters. 
Thirteen of these communities discharge to waters where pathogens 
(E. coli) and/or siltation were cited as reasons or causes of impairment. 
In Michigan, 10 of the 11 CSO 
communities discharge to 303(d)˚
impaired waters. The waters in close proximity to Norway have not been 

assessed. Three CSO communities in 
Michigan (Manistee, Niles, and St. 

Joseph) discharge to 303(d)-listed 
waters that specifically cite ﬁCSO˚
pathogen (Rule 100)ﬂ as a source of 

impairment. In addition, three CSO 
communities (East Lansing, Lansing, 

and Crystal Falls) discharge to waterbodies that include pathogens or pathogens and dissolved oxygen 
as reasons or causes of impairment. In Wisconsin, MMSD, the only CSO permittee in the basin, also 
discharges to or in close proximity to 303(d)-impaired waters where 

pathogens and/or dissolved oxygen 
were cited as reasons or causes of 
impairment. EPA believes the association between CSO location and impaired waters is 
due to a number of factors in addition 
to CSO discharges. CSOs are generally 
located in urban areas where 
waterbodies also receive relatively high volumes of storm water and other pollutant loads. Waters within 
urban areas are also much more likely 
to be assessed than non-urban waters 

(EPA 2004b). 3.3.2 BEACH Program 
Recreation is an important designated use for most waters of the United 
States. The Beaches Environmental 

Assessment and Coastal Health Act of 

2000 (P.L. 106Œ284) resulted in EPA™s 
BEACH Program, which compiles and 
reports on beach monitoring and public notification activity for the 
nation™s coastal recreational waters 

on an annual basis. In the first years of 

EPA™s BEACH Program, local and state 
agencies representing beaches in coastal, Great Lakes, and some inland 
waters collected and submitted beach 
monitoring data through the National 
Health Protection Survey of Beaches. 
Participation in this annual survey was 
voluntary from 1997 through 2002. 
Beginning with the 2003 season, state 

recipients of BEACH Act grants are 
required to submit data collected as part of the state's program for beach 
monitoring and notification for 
coastal and Great Lakes recreation waters. With respect to designated use 
impairment, 165 Lake Michigan beaches had at least one advisory or 

closing during the 2000Œ2004 
swimming seasons. Elevated bacteria 
levels accounted for 94 percent of these recreational use impairments, 
which were manifested as beach 
advisories and closings. A summary of 
the sources of pollution attributed to 

advisories and closings at Lake Michigan beaches during the period 3Œ15˜           Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
2000Œ2004 is presented in Figure 3.4. 
Multiple pollutant sources are 
identified for a single event in some 
instances, and a single pollution source could also be identified as 
ﬂunknownﬂ. As shown in Figure 3.4, a 

wide variety of pollutant sources were 
reported as causing beach advisories 
and closings. Approximately 81 percent of the advisories and closings in Lake Michigan were caused by an 

unknown source of pollution. CSOs 
were reported to be responsible for 
two percent of total reported 
advisories and closings, and eight percent of advisories and closings 
where a known source was identified. 
As shown in Figure 3.5, CSOs were reported as causing a total of 63 
beach advisories and closings in four counties in three states adjacent to 
Lake Michigan (2000Œ2004). No beach 
advisories or closings attributed to 

CSOs were reported in Michigan counties bordering the lake during this five-year period. A summary of all 
pollutant sources reported as causing 
all advisories and closings in these 
four counties during the period 2000Œ 2004 is presented in Table 3.7. As shown, CSOs were reported to be a 
source of pollution for 18 percent and 
eight percent of all beach advisories 
and closings in Porter County and LaPorte County, Indiana, respectively. 
CSOs were cited as a source of 

pollution less than three percent of 

the time at beaches in Cook County, 
Illinois, and Milwaukee County, Wisconsin. This does not in and of 
itself indicate that CSOs cause a larger 

percentage of advisories and closings 
at Indiana beaches. Similarly to CSO data collection methods, public health reporting methods are not  

standardized. This leads to differences 

in the ways that states report the 
causes of beach closures. For example, in Illinois and Wisconsin, a large number of advisories and 

closures at beaches are attributed to 
unknown sources. Overall, the Indiana 
counties attributed fewer beach advisories and closings to an unknown source than did Illinois or 
Wisconsin. 3Œ16˜                 
  
        Chapter 3ŒCSO Discharges to Lake Michigan 
Sources of Pollution that Resulted 
in Lake Michigan Beach Advisories 
and Closings: 2000-2004 
CSOs were responsible for two percent 
of reported advisories and closings, 

during the period 2000 through 2004. 
Figure 3.4 BOAT 
CSO POTW SSO SEPTIC 
STORM 
WILDLIFE OTHER UNKNOWN 
0 10 20 30 
40 50 60 70 
80 90 2 2 1 <1 <1 5 81 7 1 Percent 
Figure 3.5 CSOs Reported to Cause Beach Advisories and Closings in Four 

Counties Bordering Lake 

Michigan: 2000-2004 
The number shown in each county 
represents the total number of beach 
advisories or closings attributed (wholly 

or in part) to CSO during the period 
2000-2004. 
3Œ17˜                                           Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
Sources of Pollution that Resulted 
in Advisories and Closings in Four 

Lake Michigan Counties: 2000˚

2004 Four counties bordering Lake Michigan 
reported CSOs as causing beach 
advisories and closings. This table shows 

all pollutant sources attributed to all 

beach advisories or closings at these 

four beaches. 
Table 3.7 Pollutant 
Source 
Cook County, IL 
La Porte County, IN 
Porter County, IN 
Milwaukee County, WI 
Boat 
0% 
5% 
11% 
6% 
CSO 
<1% 
8% 
18% 
3% 
POTW 
0% 
0% 2% 
6% SSO 
0% 
0% 2% 
1% Septic 
0% 
5% 7% 
0% Storm 
0% 
21% 
11% 
9% 
Wildlife 
0% 
5% 
10% 
8% 
Other 
0% 
12% 
3% 
1% 
Unknown 
>99% 
41% 
36% 
65% 
3.3.3 Impacts within Great Lakes AOCs In an effort to clean up the most 
polluted areas in the Great Lakes, the United States and Canada, in Annex 2 

of the Great Lakes Water Quality 
Agreement, committed to cooperate with State and Provincial 
Governments to ensure that RAPs are 

developed and implemented for all 
designated AOCs in the Great Lakes 
basin. AOCs are defined by the USŒ 
Canada Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement (International Joint 

Commission 1989) as ﬁgeographic 

areas that fail to meet the general or 

specific objectives of the agreement 
where such failure has caused or is likely to cause impairment of 
beneficial use of the area's ability to support aquatic life.ﬂ Ten AOCs have been identified in the 
Lake Michigan basin. Three of the Lake Michigan AOCs specifically mention CSOs as contributing to 

impairment (EPA 2005). Each of these 
three AOCs is described briefly below. The Grand Calumet AOC includes 
nearshore areas along Lake Michigan in the vicinity of Gary, East Chicago, 
and Hammond, Indiana; portions of 
the Grand Calumet River; and the 

Indiana Harbor Ship Canal. Problems within the Grand Calumet AOC 
include contamination from 

polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), 

polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, 
heavy metals, microbial pathogens, oxygen-depleting substances, and oil and grease. Point sources of pollutants include several 
industrial discharges, three POTWs, 15 
3Œ18˜                                                                                                                     
              
 
 
  
  Chapter 3ŒCSO Discharge to Lake Michigan 
CSO outfalls, and municipal and industrial storm water. Other sources include contaminated sediment, 

leaking underground storage tanks, 
Resource Conservation and Recovery 

Act and Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act 
(Superfund) sites, and atmospheric 
deposition. The Stage One RAP for the 

Grand Calumet AOC (produced in 1991) identified CSOs as a major cause of contamination of sediments. The Menominee River AOC includes 
the lower three miles of the 

Menominee River; the cities of Marinette, Wisconsin, and Menominee, Michigan; and adjacent 
nearshore areas at the mouth of the 

Menominee River within Green Bay. 
The principal pollutant of concern in the Lower Menominee River is arsenic, which has been linked to 
industrial discharges. Other pollutants 

of concern are paint sludge and coal 

tar. CSOs are largely controlled within the AOC and are not considered to be 
a major source of pollutants. The Manistique River AOC includes 
the lower 1.7 miles of the Manistique 

River and the Manistique River Harbor 
on Lake Michigan. The principal 
pollutants of concern are PCBs, oils, 
and heavy metals. Historically, 
impairments to beneficial use 
included beach closings associated with CSO discharges, and CSO elimination was determined to be a 
priority. Recent improvements to 

Manistique™s CSS have minimized CSO 
frequency at the one remaining CSO outfall. 3.3.4 Other Efforts Underway 
in the Lake Michigan Basin LAKEWIDE MANAGEMENT
 PLAN 
Under the Great Lakes Water Quality 
Agreement as amended in 1987, the United States and Canada agreed to 
ﬁrestore and maintain the chemical, 

physical and biological integrity of 
the waters of the Great Lakes Basin 
Ecosystem.ﬂ In consultation with 
states and provincial governments, 
the parties agreed to develop and 
implement Lakewide Management 
Plans (LaMPs) for open waters. In the 

case of Lake Michigan, which lies wholly within the borders of the United States, EPA is responsible for the LaMP. EPA produced the Lake 
Michigan LaMP 2000 (LMTC 2000) and 
two updates in 2002 and 2004 (LMTC 
2002, 2004). The Lake Michigan LaMP 2004 status report can be accessed at 

http://www.epa.gov/glnpo/lakemich/ 
2004update/index.html. 3Œ19˜                      Chapter 4 State Approaches to CSO Control ˜in the Lake Michigan Basin˜ This chapter presents the approaches 

that Indiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, and 
Illinois have taken for CSO control. The descriptions of each state™s approach are based upon information originally 
collected for EPA™s Report to CongressŠ Implementation and Enforcement of the 

Combined Sewer Overflow Control Policy 
(EPA 2001b) and were updated to provide Lake Michigan-specific 
information. This chapter also 

summarizes the status of NMC and 

LTCP requirements by state, and reports on the implementation of CSO control efforts by communities in the 
Lake Michigan basin. All four of the Lake Michigan states are currently authorized to issue NPDES permits. The NPDES authorities in each 
state have developed specific 
strategies and programs for addressing 

CSO discharges in their states. EPA 
oversees these permitting programs 
and provides funding support to the states. Both the states and EPA have 

independent authority to take 

enforcement actions for violations of 
the Clean Water Act, including permit 
violations. 4.1 What is the Indiana Approach to CSO 
Control? 4.1.1 Strategy for CSO Control and NPDES Permitting IDEM is the NPDES authority in Indiana. IDEM issued its Final Combined Sewer 
Overflow Strategy, consistent with 
EPA™s CSO Control Policy, in May 1996. The IDEM final strategy enhanced the 

six minimum control requirements in 
IDEM™s 1991 State CSO Strategy by including three additional minimum 

controls and a requirement to develop 
an LTCP (EPA 2001b). PERMITTING PROGRAM Indiana has a statewide total of 107 
CSO permits. Eighteen of these permits 
authorize discharges in the Lake 

Michigan basin. CSO communities are 
required to implement the NMC and to 
report compliance with the first eight minimum controls through submission and approval of CSO Operational Plans. 
A Stream Reach and Characterization 

and Evaluation Report (SRCER) is 
required for most communities to address the monitoring requirement of 
the NMC. Several small communities 
and communities pursuing complete 
4Œ1˜       
        Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
sewer separation do not have requirements to develop SRCERs. IDEM, in some cases, has issued ﬁCSO˚
onlyﬂ permits to communities that establish CSO control requirements 

consistent with current regulation and 

policy. This approach accelerates CSO 
controls for communities whose NPDES 
permits for POTW discharges have 
expired, and where delays in reissuing 
these permits would slow the 

implementation of CSO control 
requirements. IDEM issued CSO-only permits to five communities within the Lake Michigan basin. Inspections of POTWs operated by CSO 
communities are performed 

approximately every two years. IDEM conducts approximately 90 percent of these inspections, and EPA Region 5 
conducts the remaining 10 percent. 

CSO-specific inspections are performed 

on an as-needed basis. WATER QUALITY
 STANDARDS PROGRAM Use attainability analyses and water 

quality standards reviews are 

conducted by IDEM. The Indiana Water 

Pollution Control Board, the rule-making arm of the IDEM water group, is responsible for reviewing and revising 
water quality standards. In 1990, 
Indiana required that
 all waters at all 

times must support full-body contact 
recreation uses. The state™s E. coli bacteriological criteria for full-body contact recreation are a daily maximum of 235 colony-forming units (cfu) per 

100ml in a single sample in a 30-day 
period, and a geometric mean of 125 
cfu per 100ml based on no fewer than 

five samples over a 30-day period. This 
standard has been judicially 
interpreted as an end-of-pipe standard. 
Partly as a result of this decision, the  
legislature adopted Senate Enrolled Act (SEA) 431 in 2000 to allow targeted  

relief from this requirement provided specific criteria are met. Under SEA 431, CSO communities may 
request a suspension of designated use 
for no more than four days after a CSO 

discharge. Such suspensions of use are 
considered to be changes to water 
quality standards and must be 

reviewed and approved by EPA. 

Suspensions of use are not likely to 
take place in areas that are genuine 
swimming areas, e.g., Lake Michigan beaches. IDEM guidance on SEA 431 
provisions was issued in May 2001. In 2005, state law was further amended by SEA 620. SEA 620 amended the permissible terms of certain water quality standards variances and 

variance renewals. It also established a 
CSO wet weather use designation for 
waters affected by CS
Os, as specified in an approved LTCP. SEA 620 provides 

for compliance schedules for meeting 

water quality-based requirements 

during development, approval, and 
implementation of an LTCP. IDEM plans to develop regulations to implement portions of SEA 620. ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM IDEM has issued warnings of 
noncompliance over the past few years to several CSO communities, generally 
for failure to develop a SRCER or a CSO 

Operational Plan. Indiana™s recently 

enacted legislation, SEA 620, allows 
IDEM to enter into judicially enforceable orders with CSO 
communities to develop and 

implement CSO controls. IDEM also 
developed a CSO plan that describes 
how IDEM will implement the CSO Control Policy in Indiana. The plan recognizes that several large CSO 
4Œ2˜                                            
           Chapter 4ŒState Approaches to CS
O Control in the Lake Michigan Basin communities will implement CSO 
controls through a federal consent 
decree. Other high priority CSO communities will implement CSO 
control through a state order or permit. Two formal enforcement actions have 
been concluded against Indiana CSO 

communities discharging in the Lake 
Michigan basin. • .HammondŠFederal CSO Judicial Order (Effective Date: 4/23/99) • .LigonierŠState CSO 
Administrative Penalty Order, 
$6,450 (Effective Date: 11/04/04) 
4.1.2 Status of CSO Control 
Indiana has 18 CSO communities in the Lake Michigan basin, and 16 of these communities have one or more active 

CSO outfalls. The location of Indiana CSO communities in the Lake Michigan 
basin is presented in Figure 4.1.  
The status of NMC 
and LTCPs for these communities is presented in Table 4.1. 
As shown, permits for 17 of the 18 

communities require implementation 

of the NMC and development of an 

LTCP. Albion eliminated all CSOs through sewer separation and is not 
required to implement the NMC or 
develop an LTCP. Fifteen of the17 
communities required to develop 

LTCPs have submitted plans currently under review by IDEM and/or EPA. The 
permit for the Gary Sanitation District 

requires the submission of an LTCP, but 

does not include a fixed submittal date. 

Gary Sanitation District has not yet submitted an LTCP. IDEM is currently 

developing a new permit that will 
clarify the LTCP submittal 

requirements. Angola™s LTCP is due in 

2006. Location of Indiana CSO Communities in 

the Lake Michigan Basin Eighteen of the 107 Indiana 
CSO permits are issued to 
CSO communities in the Lake Michigan basin. 
Figure 4.1 4Œ3˜       
   
  
    
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
                      Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
Status of CSO Control Policy 
Requirements in Indiana, Lake 

Michigan Basin Only 
As of 2005, nearly all Indiana CSO 
communities in the Lake Michigan basin have developed and submitted LTCPs. 
Table 4.1 NMC Required YES NO N/A 1aNo. of Communities 
17 0 ˜Percent of Communities 94.4% 
0% 5.6% ˜LTCP Required YES NO N/A 1aNo. of Communities 
17 0 ˜Percent of Communities 94.4% 
0% 5.6% ˜LTCP Submitted 
YES NO N/A 1aNo. of Communities 
15 2 ˜Percent of Communities 83.3% 
11.1% 5.6% ˜LTCP Approved 
YES NO N/A No. of Communities 
1 14b 1a Percent of Communities 6% 
88% 6% aAlbion, Indiana, has no NMC or LTCP requirements because sewer separation was 
completed before the LTCP submission 
requirement. ˜bLTCPs are under review. ˜
The CSO controls proposed by or implemented in Indiana communities are 
summarized in Table 4.2. As shown, six types of control technologies are in place 
or are being considered in the Lake 
Michigan basin. Michigan City™s LTCP has 
been approved and is being implemented; it includes outfall elimination and a retention basin retrofit that adds 

disinfection and dechlorination processes. Many other Indiana communities are waiting for LTCP approval and have begun 
to implement controls. For example, Milford increased treatment plant capacity and eliminated its CSOs. Goshen is 
implementing multiple controls that include relief sewer construction, a 
treatment plant capacity upgrade, and  
screening and disinfection at the 
treatment plant outfall.  
Detailed profiles for Indiana CSO communities including the number of 

active outfalls, NMC and LTCP 
requirements, LTCP status, CSO control 
requirements, and existing and planned controls are presented in Appendix A
. For further information on the 
technologies and operational practices 
most commonly used to control CSOs, see Appendix L of Report to CongressŠImpacts and Control of CSOs and SSOs (EPA 2004b). 
4Œ4˜                                                   
   
       
         
      
    
        
      
  
    
      
  
   
       
      
      
      
   
       
  
  
    
   
  
       
      
           Chapter 4ŒState Approach
es to CSO Control in the Lake Michigan Bas
in Summary of CSO Controls 
Implemented or Proposed in 

Indiana CSO Communities in the 
Lake Michigan Basin Table 4.2 Community 
Sewer Separation Retention Treatment Basin (RTB) 
New Sewer Construction 
Treatment Plant Capacity Upgrade Screening High-Rate Treatment Albion  Angola  Chesterton  Crown Point  East Chicago Elkhart   Gary Goshen    Hammond  Kendallville  Ligonier 
 Michigan City  Milford 
 Mishawaka 
   Nappane 
  South Bend     Valparaiso 
 Wakarusa    Control is in place or is being implemented. 
 Control has been proposed or is scheduled to be implemented. 
4Œ5˜       
         Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
4.2 What is the Michigan Approach to CSO Control? 
4.2.1 Strategy for CSO Control and NPDES Permitting MDEQ is the NPDES authority in Michigan. Prior to the issuance of EPA™s CSO Control 
Policy in 1994, Michigan had a CSO 

strategy in place. MDEQ modified its CSO program to include elements of the CSO 
Control Policy. MDEQ requires all CSO 

communities to implement the NMC and 
to develop an LTCP. During the 
interim/initial phases of the CSO Control 
Plan, Michigan did not emphasize solids and floatables control, one of the NMC. The 
control of solids and floatables is required 
as part of the LTCP construction phase 
(EPA 2001b). Michigan requires that communities either eliminate (via sewer 

separation) or provide ﬁadequate treatmentﬂ of CSOs. Adequate treatment is 
defined as follows: • .Retention and full treatment of the 
one-year, one-hour design storm 
• .Primary treatment of the ten-year, 
one-hour design storm (primary treatment is defined as 30-minute 
detention time) 
• .Limited treatment of flows above the 
ten-year, one-hour design storm 
Communities that meet the adequate 
treatment requirements, which are more 

protective than the presumption approach outlined in the CSO Control Policy, are presumed to meet Michigan™s water 
quality standards. Some communities are 
attempting to demonstrate that they can 

achieve water quality standards with lesser treatment than that required under 

Michigan™s adequate treatment definition. This approach is explicitly allowed in the 

permit. Michigan Public Act 451 requires facilities in Michigan to notify MDEQ within 24 hours of when a CSO discharge begins. 

After the discharge ends, the facility must 
submit a complete report that includes the 

location and volume of the discharge as well as the start/end date and time. PERMITTING PROGRAM Michigan has a statewide total of 42 CSO 
permits with 11 CSO permits in the Lake 
Michigan basin. Michigan™s CSO program is implemented in two phases. Phase I requires operational improvement to 

minimize CSOs, CSO monitoring, and 

construction of interim CSO control 
projects where feasible. Phase I also requires development of a final program leading to elimination or adequate 
treatment of CSOs. Phase II requires 

implementation of the final program in 
subsequent NPDES permits. WATER QUALITY
 STANDARDS PROGRAM MDEQ has jurisdiction over the water 
quality standards program. In general, 

Michigan water quality standards staff are not involved in LTCP reviews, except when 

a community is attempting to demonstrate that it can achieve water quality standards with lesser treatment than that required 
under Michigan™s adequate treatment 
approach. All communities meeting the 

adequate treatment design standards specified for CSO control are presumed to meet water quality standards. Michigan 

rules allow the use of alternate design 
flowsŠi.e., alternate to the average low 

flow over seven consecutive days in a 10˚
year period (7Q10) or 95 percent exceedance flowsŠwhen determining 

water quality-based requirements for 

intermittent wet weather discharges such 

as treated CSOs.   
4Œ6˜                                                   
   
        
 
 
 
               Chapter 4ŒState Approach
es to CSO Control in the Lake Michigan Bas
in Location of Michigan CSO Communities in the Lake 

Michigan Basin 
Figure 4.2 ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM 
Enforcement actions have been taken 
where municipalities have been unwilling 
or unable to agree to CSO program 
schedules acceptable to MDEQ. Several Director™s Final Orders have been issued to 

communities to develop and implement 

an LTCP. Two formal enforcement actions 

have been concluded against Michigan CSO permittees discharging to the Lake Michigan basin. • .ManisteeŠFederal CSO Judicial Order 
(Effective Date: 4/21/88) • .East LansingŠState CSO 

Administrative Penalty Order (Effective 
Date: 6/29/99) 4.2.2 Status of CSO Control  
As shown in Figure 
4.2, 11 Michigan CSO 
communities are located in the Lake 
Michigan basin. All 11 Michigan CSO 
communities in the Lake Michigan basin 

have NMC and LTCP requirements, have 
submitted LTCPs to MDEQ, and have 
approved LTCPs (Table 4.3). The CSO controls implemented or scheduled to be implemented in these 
Michigan CSO communities are 
summarized in Table 4.4. As shown, a variety of control technologies are being implemented. The communities of Norway 
and Menominee have completed 
implementation of their LTCPs. Norway has a retention treatment 
basin at its single 
CSO outfall, and Menominee has completed a sewer separation project to  

eliminate its CSOs. Another community, 
Iron Mountain-Kingsford, has a retention 4Œ7˜       
             Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
treatment basin in place, and its sewer 
separation project is under construction. 
Sewer separation is scheduled or 
underway for five other communities. Other controls in place or planned include 
retention treatment basins, pipe 

rehabilitation, and inflow and infiltration 
(I/I) reduction or removal. Retention treatment basin controls include primary 
sedimentation, skimming, and disinfection. Retention treatment basins are currently 
used by six of the 11 communities. 
Discharge characterization reports are 
required for retention treatment basin 
discharges. Several communities currently use more than one control method or plan 

to introduce additional controls. Detailed profiles for Michigan CSO communities, including the number of 
active outfalls, NMC and LTCP 

requirements, LTCP status, control 

requirements, and existing and planned 
controls, are presented in Appendix A. 
Status of CSO Control Policy 
Requirements in Michigan, Lake Michigan Basin Only 
All Michigan CSO communities in the 
Lake Michigan basin have submitted 
LTCPs that have been approved by the state. Table 4.3 NMC Required YES NO No. of Communities 
11 0 ˜Percent of Communities 100% 0% ˜LTCP Required YES NO No. of Communities 
11 0 ˜Percent of Communities 100% 0% ˜LTCP Submitted 
YES NO No. of Communities 
11 0 ˜Percent of Communities 100% 0% ˜LTCP Approved 
YES NO No. of Communities 
11 0 ˜Percent of Communities 100% 0% ˜4Œ8˜                                                   
   
                                            
        
                      Chapter 4ŒState Approach
es to CSO Control in the Lake Michigan Bas
in CSO Controls Implemented or 
Scheduled to Be Implemented in 
Michigan CSO Communities in the 

Lake Michigan Basin Michigan CSO communities are using a 
variety of technologies to control CSOs. 
Table 4.4 Community 
Crystal Falls East Lansing Grand Rapids 
Iron Mountain-Kingsford 
Lansing Manistee Manistique Menominee 
Niles Norway 
St. Joseph Sewer Separation   
     RTB  
  
   Sewer Rehabilitation 
  I/I Reduction    Control is in place or is being implemented. ˜
 Control has been proposed or is scheduled to be implemented. ˜
4.3 What is the Wisconsin Approach to CSO Control? 
The Wisconsin Department of Natural 
Resources (WDNR) is both the NPDES 

authority and the water quality standards 
authority in Wisconsin. There are only two 
CSO communities in Wisconsin, and 
Milwaukee is the only CSO community 

located within the Lake Michigan basin 
(Figure 4.3). MMSD serves the City of 
Milwaukee and 28 neighboring communities. The CSS covers 

approximately 24 square miles and has 117 active CSO outfalls. All of the CSOs are 
under the jurisdiction of MMSD. 4.3.1 Strategy for CSO Control and NPDES Permitting PERMITTING PROGRAM WDNR required CSO communities to 
submit CSO facility plans prior to the 
issuance of the CSO Control Policy in 1994. MMSD currently has NMC and LTCP requirements in its permit, and its LTCP is 
scheduled for completion in 2007. 4Œ9˜       
       Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
Wisconsin™s CSO Community in 
the Lake Michigan Basin The Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage 
District (MMSD) operates the only 
Wisconsin CSS in the basin. 
Figure 4.3 ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM The MMSD is subject to a 2001 stipulation agreement that requires it to build several SSO projects and to develop an LTCP for 
CSOs. On October 27, 2005, the State of 
Wisconsin filed a complaint against MMSD 
for SSO and CSO discharges to the 
Menomonee River, Milwaukee River, and Lake Michigan. 4.3.2 Status of CSO Control  
MMSD has maintained an inline storage 
system (ISS) based on tunnels to store and 
convey wet weather flows, including 

combined sewage, since 1994. The ISS 
tunnels have a total capacity of 400 MG and a combined length of over 20 miles. 
Since 1994, the ISS tunnels have prevented 

more than 37 BG of CSOs and SSOs from 
entering area waterways, including Lake Michigan. Between 1994 and 2000, CSOs decreased from 40-60 events per year to an 

average of 2.5 events per year (WDNR 2001). Operation of the system has been 

modified in the last few years to decrease  
CSO capture rates in order to increase SSO 

capture from the satellite communities. MMSD has also implemented a stream and lake monitoring program and a sewer 
separation project that identifies areas 
where storm flow can be rerouted out of 
the CSS. A comparison of pre-ISS annual overflow volumes with post-ISS overflow 
volumes is presented in Figure 4.4. This 

comparison was made in 2002, prior to the 

release of revised CS
O statistics by MMSD in 2004. See section 3.1.1 of this report for 
more information. 4Œ10˜                                                   
   
                      Chapter 4ŒState Approach
es to CSO Control in the Lake Michigan Bas
in Comparison of Pre-ISS 
Annual Overflow 
Volumes with Post-ISS 

Overflow Volumes in 

Milwaukee, WI (State of Wisconsin, Legislative 
Audit Bureau 2002) Figure 4.4Millions of Gallons
8,000 
7,000 
6,000 
5,000 
4,000 
3,000 
2,000 
1,000 
0 4.4 What is the Illinois Approach to CSO Control? 
4.4.1 Strategy for CSO Control and NPDES Permitting PERMITTING PROGRAM The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (Illinois EPA) is the NPDES authority 

in Illinois. Illinois EPA implements CSO 
control through the NPDES permit process. 
Illinois™ program includes an approach that pre-dates the 1994 CSO Control Policy in establishing control criteria presumed to 

protect water quality, and it allows a 
demonstration that other criteria are 
protective. Three additional Best Management Practices from the CSO CSO SSO Estimated Pre-ISS 
Actual Post-ISS 
Control Policy were incorporated into the 
existing Illinois program
, so that its CSO permits are consistent with NMC requirements (EPA 2001b). WATER QUALITY
 STANDARDS PROGRAM Water quality standards are under the 

jurisdiction of the Illinois Pollution Control Board. Illinois bacterial standards for ﬁgeneral useﬂ waters are based on a 
geometric mean fecal coliform level of 200 

cfu/100ml, with no more than 10 percent 
of samples exceeding 400 cfu/100ml. This standard is applicable May through 
October. In parts of the Chicago River 

system where the State™s ﬁsecondary useﬂ 

designation applies, there is currently no 
bacterial criterion in place. 4Œ11˜       
            Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
Volume of Combined Sewage 
Captured by TARP: 1982Œ2004 (MWRDGC 2005a) 
Table 4.5 Date Stickney Flow
a (BG) Calumet Flowa (BG) Kirie Flowb (BG) Total (BG) 1982-1993c 206.20 60.20 37.30 303.70 1994 18.74 7.83 1.44 28.01 1995 22.84 9.08 2.60 
34.51˜ 1996 21.54 12.02 2.23 35.79 1997 29.10 8.44 1.50 
39.04˜ 1998 34.31 13.23 2.69 50.23 1999 27.20 11.77 3.15 
42.12˜ 2000 28.55 11.55 2.14 42.23 2001 48.43 16.34 3.24 
68.01˜ 2002 41.17 11.15 1.50 53.82 2003 27.22 14.88 1.48 
43.58˜ 2004 28.05 15.55 2.67 46.27 Total 533.35 192.04 61.94 
787.31 aStickney and Calumet data were taken from TARP pumpback reports. 
bKirie data were taken from LIMS KRRAW69 Report. CSO capture 
was calculated by subtracting the average dry weather flow 
  from the average daily flow. The flow data were provided by the MWRDGC Maintenance and Operations Department  
(Technical Projects). cData were supplied by the  MW
RDGC Engineering Department. ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM Illinois EPA does not have direct administrative order authority. Significant 
noncompliance is referred to the State Attorney General. 
4.4.2 Status of CSO Control 
MWRDGC, the City of Chicago, and 40 satellite communities in the Chicago 

metropolitan area are part of the TARP, 
which captures and transports CSO flows 
for storage and treatm
ent at wastewater treatment facilities. Illinois EPA reviewed 
and approved the TARP as the LTCP for all 

of these communities. Construction of 
Chicago™s TARP began in 1976 and has 
been implemented in two phases. The first phase focused on reducing CSOs and is  
nearing completion. River reversals to Lake Michigan have also been reduced in Phase I, and no river reversals have occurred 
since 2002. The second phase provides flood control benefits and further increases CSO capture. Under Phase II, O™Hare 
Reservoir was completed in 1998, 
construction on McCook Reservoir began 
in 2000, and Thornton Reservoir has a 
planned completion date of 2015. CSO volumes (in billion gallons) captured by TARP since 1982 are presented in Table 

4.5. Stickney, Calumet, and Kirie are the 
treatment plants to which TARP flows are 
conveyed. Natural variations in the rainfall 
conditions affect the annual volume of 

combined sewage generated and 

captured. 4Œ12˜             Chapter 5 Conclusions and Future Actions ˜This chapter summarizes the progress 

made in controlling CSOs that 
discharge within the Lake Michigan basin, and it describes the future 
actions that EPA and state regulatory 

authorities plan to take to address the 
remaining CSO discharges. Success in 

CSO control efforts will be achieved 
when all CSO discharges are either 
eliminated or brought under a level of 
control consistent with the water 

quality-based and technology-based 
requirements of the Clean Water Act. 
EPA recognizes that this will be a long-term effort and has established a 
process under the CSO Control Policy 

for achieving this goal. 
Progress towards controlling CSOs is based on the establishment of requirements, typically under NPDES 
permit conditions, for CSO 
communities to implement 

immediate measures to reduce CSO discharges (i.e., NMC) and to develop 
an LTCP to meet the requirements of 
the Clean Water Act. Following 

approval of LTCPs by the NPDES 

authority, implementation schedules are incorporated into enforceable 
documents such as NPDES permits, 
administrative orders, or judicial 
consent decrees. Review and 
modification of water quality standards may be carried out as part  
of LTCP development in some cases. Changes to water quality standards  

must be adopted by state water quality standards authorities and 
approved by EPA. Implementation 
schedules for completing CSO 

controls in some cases extend over 
many years because of factors such as scope, complexity, and financial capability. Much progress has been made in controlling CSOs in the Lake Michigan 
basin, both prior to and following the release of the CSO Control Policy. 5.1 What are Current 
Conditions in the Lake Michigan Basin? All CSO communities discharging within the Lake Michigan basin have either brought their CSOs under 
control, are under implementation 
schedules to bring their CSOs under 
control, or are under permits that 
require the implementation of the NMC and development of an LTCP. (The CSO permit for the Gary Sanitary 
District in Indiana will be reissued to 
clarify the submittal date 
requirements for the LTCP.) 
5Œ1˜       
         Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
In Indiana, 15 of 18 CSO communities 
in the Lake Michigan basin have 
developed and submitted LTCPs. The LTCP for Michigan City has been approved. The remaining LTCPs are 
under review by IDEM and/or EPA.  

One CSO community, Albion, does 
not have NMC or LTCP requirements 
because it eliminated its CSOs through sewer separation prior to the 

LTCP submission requirement. As 
noted above, the permit for the Gary 

Sanitation District requires the 
submission of an LTCP, but it does not specify a submittal date. IDEM is currently developing a new permit that will clarify LTCP submittal 
requirements. 
In Michigan, all 11 CSO communities within the Lake Michigan basin have 
approved LTCPs and are under 
enforceable schedules to implement 
these LTCPs. Two communities 
(Menominee and Norway) have 
already completed their CSO control 
projects. Two additional CSO 
communities will complete their 

control projects by 2007. All Michigan CSO communities are targeted to complete their CSO control projects 
by 2020, and most are presently 
under construction. Michigan CSO 
communities have achieved CSO 
control through a number of approaches including sewer 
separation, retention/treatment, and 

disinfection. In Wisconsin, CSO discharges in the 
Milwaukee area have been reduced in frequency from 40-60 times per year 
to an average of 2.5 times per year 

since the MMSD sewage system 

began operation of the ISS in 1994. Nevertheless, large volumes of 
combined sewage can be discharged 

in the Milwaukee area when CSOs 
occur. In recent  
years, the MMSD and tributary 

communities have experienced SSOs, 

and MMSD™s ability to address SSOs is interrelated with its CSO control 
program via ISS. MMSD is required to 
develop an LTCP by 2007 to address 
concerns about the potential water 
quality impacts of the remaining CSO discharges. CSOs in the Chicago, Illinois area have been greatly reduced due to the 

construction of the tunnel system 

under TARP. Completion of the reservoir portion of TARP, currently  
scheduled for 2015, is expected to 
further reduce CSOs and the 

likelihood of river reversals affecting Lake Michigan. 5.2 What are Future EPA Actions to Control CSOs in the Lake Michigan Basin? EPA expects that future actions to 
control CSOs in the Lake Michigan 
basin will entail continued oversight 
to implement existing programs. 
While all states in the Lake Michigan 
basin are authorized to implement NPDES permit programs, including 
CSO control, EPA maintains a number 
of functions that help facilitate the full 
achievement of CSO control goals. These functions include state permit 
program oversight, state enforcement 

program oversight, federal 
enforcement activity, technical 

assistance, financial assistance, and 
review and approval of changes to state water quality standards related 

to CSOs. These activities are discussed 

below. 5Œ2˜          Chapter 5ŒConclusions and Future Actions 
5.2.1State Permit Oversight 
The CSO Control Policy includes expectations for NPDES permitting 
authorities. In general, EPA 
envisioned a phased approach to 

permitting, including initial 
requirements to implement the NMC 
and develop an LTCP, followed by 

requirements to implement controls 
outlined in the approved LTCP. The 
Wet Weather Water Quality Act of 2000 requires that each permit issued 
pursuant to the Clean Water Act for a 

discharge from a municipal CSS shall 
conform to the CSO Control Policy. State NPDES authorities in the Lake 
Michigan basin have issued NPDES permits to CSO communities that are 

consistent with the CSO Control 

Policy. The particular permit 
requirements depend on the state 
and the status of CSO control within a 
given community. Where the LTCP or 

specific CSO control projects have 
been constructed, permits include 

requirements to properly operate 
these systems, limitations on discharges (where appropriate), 
and/or prohibitions on discharge 
where the LTCP was based on 

elimination of CSOs. Where an LTCP has been developed but controls have not been constructed, permits 

include requirements to construct 
specific controls. In other cases, 

permits require the development and 
submission of LTCPs. 
In Indiana, 14 CSO communities in the 
Lake Michigan basin have developed 
and submitted LTCPs that are not yet 
approved. One community has an LTCP approved by the state. The state 
also has a backlog of unapproved 
LTCPs from areas outside of the Lake 

Michigan basin. IDEM and EPA have 
been working together to develop an approach to complete the review and 

approval of these plans. The state has 

targeted 65 of its 107 LTCPs, including 
13 for CSO communities in the Lake Michigan basin, for approval by 2007. 

An additional 10 LTCPs, including one 
for a CSO community in the Lake 
Michigan basin, are targeted for approval by 2008. Approval of all LTCPs is expected by 2009. EPA will continue to work with state NPDES authorities to ensure that 

reissued permits contain appropriate conditions for CSO control in order to minimize CSO discharges in 

accordance with the CSO Control 

Policy. 5.2.2 State Enforcement 
Program Oversight  
EPA developed work plans and 

Memoranda of Agreement with states 
to ensure that state enforcement 
efforts on CSOs are consistent with 

federal efforts and the CSO Control 

Policy. Some activities undertaken to ensure consistency between EPA and state efforts include periodic reporting, work sharing 

arrangements, and discussions of 
case-specific issues. 
These activities are designed to ensure that the entire 
CSO universe is addressed; that there is minimal duplication of effort; and 
that there is consistency in the levels 

of control and timing sought for CSO 
control. 5.2.3 Enforcement Activity EPA is engaged in active discussions with five of the larger Lake Michigan CSO communities in Indiana to 
establish enforceable schedules for 

the implementation of LTCPs. These 
five communities represent 28 percent of the 18 Indiana Lake 5Œ3˜       
    Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
Michigan CSO communities and 17 
percent of the 30 total Lake Michigan 
CSO communities. The priority ranking system used by Region 5 established these communities as 
high priority, high impact CSO areas 
because of CSO discharges to 
interstate waters and the nature and 
extent of impacts on those receiving 
waters. All 11 Michigan CSO communities in the Lake Michigan basin are subject 
to state enforceable schedules to 
implement LTCPs. In all cases, implementation is nearing 
completion or is in compliance with 
the state enforceable schedules. EPA 

deemed that federal enforcement 
was not necessary for these 
communities because of the 

advanced nature of LTCP 

implementation and the State of 
Michigan™s record in ensuring that 
schedules are maintained. In Milwaukee, Wisconsin, MMSD has substantial CSO control in place, 
including a very large storage tunnel. 

Implementation of additional CSO control is being sought under a state court consent agreement. A revised 
LTCP is due to the state in 2007. In Chicago, Illinois, EPA is engaged in discussions with the MWRDGC about 
establishing an enforceable schedule to complete the reservoir stage of 

TARP. When completed, TARP will 
further minimize the potential for 

discharges to Lake Michigan. 5.2.4 Technical Assistance  
EPA has sponsored two Region 5 LTCP development and review seminars in Indiana. In addition, state inspectors 
are invited to, and regularly attend,  

wet weather inspections conducted by EPA. Concurrent review of 

technical documents from EPA-led  

enforcement cases is conducted with 
the states. EPA ha
s reviewed and commented on a number of LTCPs outside of the enforcement context to 
help build state capacity. 5.2.5 Financial Assistance  
Congress created EPA™s Clean Water State Revolving Fund in 1987 to serve 
as a long-term funding source for 

infrastructure projects related to 

water quality. All 50 states and Puerto Rico maintain revolving loan programs through the Clean Water State Revolving Fund to provide low-
cost financing for these projects 

through low-interest loans. The Clean 

Water State Revolving Fund provided over $5.3 billion in funds for assistance in 2004. The Clean Water State Revolving Fund 
loans used for CSO-related projects in 
the four Lake Michigan states totaled 
more than $1.8 billion over the period 1987 through 2004. Eighteen of the 
CSO communities in the Lake 
Michigan basin received Clean Water 
State Revolving Fund loans that 

supported ongoing and completed CSO projects, particularly in Illinois 
and Michigan. Several CSO 
communities, including Chicago, 

Milwaukee, and Lansing, are on the 
list for substantial loans in the future. Clean Water State Revolving Fund 

needs for Indiana CSO communities 
will be better defined once LTCPs are 
approved. There has also been considerable 
investment in CSO projects by Great Lakes states. It is expected that CSO  control will continue to be a priority 
in these states. 5Œ4˜           Chapter 5ŒConclusions and Future Actions 
5.2.6 Water Quality Standards  
            Review and Approval 
The CSO Policy provides that ﬁ[d]evelopment of the LTCP should be 

coordinated with the review and 
appropriate revision of water quality 
standards and implementation procedures on CSO-impacted waters to ensure that long-term controls will 
be sufficient to meet water quality 
standardsﬂ (59 FR 18694). In 2001, EPA 

issued Guidance: Coordinating Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO) Long 

Term Planning with Water Quality 

Standards Reviews (EPA 2001a), which details the process for coordinating 
LTCP development and 
implementation with water quality standards review. While states regularly review the adequacy of proposed CSO control 
measures based on their ability to meet water quality standards, no 
states have yet submitted requests for 
changes in water quality standards for 

CSO-impacted waters within the Lake 

Michigan basin. As discussed in 
Section 4.1, Indiana has passed legislation (SEA 341) that would allow 
for suspensions of designated use in 

certain cases and establish wet 

weather use designations for waters affected by CSOs (SEA 620). EPA is 
currently working with IDEM as it 
develops rules to implement portions 
of SEA 620. EPA does not believe that 
changes to recreational uses for Lake 

Michigan beaches are likely. 5.3 Summary ˜EPA believes that a sound regulatory 
program is in place that will lead to full implementation of the CSO 
Control Policy to protect Lake 

Michigan from water quality impacts 
related to CSO discharges. CSO control efforts, to date, have greatly 
reduced discharges of untreated 
CSOs to the lake, most significantly 
from the Chicago and Milwaukee 
metropolitan areas. In Michigan, all 
communities have adequate controls 
in place or are implementing 
programs to correct their CSO 

problems. Significant additional 
reductions are expected, particularly as communities in Indiana complete CSO planning and construct controls. 
EPA will continue to work cooperatively with the state NPDES 
authorities to ensure that consistent 
approaches to addressing CSO 
control are sought at the state and 

federal levels. EPA will also continue 

to explore work-sharing opportunities 
in order to utilize federal and state resources more efficiently. Bringing all CSOs into compliance with the Clean Water Act and the CSO 

Control Policy is necessary to ensure 
that surface waters are safe for 
fishing, swimming, and public water supply. However, other sources of 

pollution (e.g., nonpoint sources, 
storm water runoff, SSOs, and other 

wastewater treatment system 
bypasses) must be addressed before 
these goals can be fully realized. In many cases, those communities required to remediate CSSs are also 

being called upon to address other  
wet weather pollution problems, 5Œ5˜       
      Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
including storm water and SSOs. For example, CSSs are often part of larger collection systems that contain SSSs. 
The sanitary sewer portions of these 
collection systems may be prone to 

SSOs, and communities will be 
required to address SSOs in addition 
to their CSOs.  
EPA believes that a degree of flexibility is appropriate with respect 
to the establishment of 

implementation schedules to 
complete CSO controls, due to the often substantial costs associated with technologies to control wet weather pollution problems (e.g., 
CSOs and SSOs) and the complexity 

associated with corrective actions. 
EPA will continue to seek early actions to reduce CSO discharges to the 
extent possible, while LTCPs are being 

implemented. On a case-by-case 
basis, EPA will evaluate the length of 
LTCP implementation schedules for each community. In such evaluations, EPA will examine factors that include 
financial, technical, environmental, 
and public health considerations. 5Œ6˜                   
            
 
 References Environment Canada and EPA. 1995. ﬁGreat 
Lakes Atlas.ﬂ Retrieved July 13, 2005. http://www.epa.gov/glnpo/atlas/index.html
. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). 1984. 
Office of Water. 
Regional and State Guidance on 
the National Municipal Policy.
 No document 
number. EPA. 1989. Office of Water. National CSO 
Control Strategy (54 FR 37371). 
EPA. 1994. Office of Water. 
Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO) Control Policy.
 EPA 830-94-001. EPA. 2001a. Office of Water. 
Guidance: Coordinating Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO) 
Long-Term Planning with Water Quality 
Standards Reviews. 
EPA 833-R-01-002. 
EPA. 2001b. Office of Water. 
Report to CongressŠImplementation and Enforcement of 

the Combined Sewer Overflow Control Policy. 
EPA 833-R-01-003. 
EPA. 2002. Office of Water. 
National Water 
Quality Inventory: 2000 Report to Congress.
 EPA 841-R-02-001. 
EPA. 2004a. Office of Enforcement and 
Compliance. ﬁPerformance-Based Strategy for 

the Combined Sewer Overflow National 
Compliance and Enforcement Priority.ﬂ October 

21, 2004. EPA. 2004b. Office of Water. 
Report to CongressŠImpacts and Control of CSOs and 
SSOs. 
EPA 833-R-04-001. 
EPA. 2005. Great Lakes Areas of Concern (AOCs) 
On-line. Retrieved July 13, 2005. 
http://www.epa.gov/glnpo/aoc/index.html
. EPA. 2006. Office of Water. ﬁNational Water 
Program Guidance: FY 2006.ﬂ Retrieved August 
15, 2005. 
http://www.epa.gov/water/waterplan/#nwp06
. Indiana Department of Environmental 
Management (IDEM). 2005. Combined Sewer 
Overflow Group web page. Retrieved August 

17, 2005. 
http://www.in.gov/idem/permits/water/wastew 

ater/wetwthr/cso/index.html
. International Joint Commission. 1989. 

Agreement, with Annexes and Terms of 

Reference Between the United States and 
Canada signed at Ottawa November 22, 1978, 

and Phosphorus Load Reduction Supplement 
signed October 16, 1983, as amended by 
Protocol signed November 18, 1987 Office 

Consolidation. Retrieved July 13, 2005. 
http://www.epa.gov/glnpo/glwqa/1978/
. Lake Michigan Technical Committee (LMTC). 
2000. Lake Michigan Lakewide Management 

Plan (LaMP) 2004. Retrieved September 13, 

2005. 
http://www.epa.gov/glnpo/lakemich/index. 

html. LMTC. 2002. Lake Michigan Lakewide 

Management Plan (LaMP) 2004. Retrieved 

September 13, 2005. 
http://www.epa.gov/glnpo/lakemich/lm02/ind 
ex.html. LMTC. 2004. Lake Michigan Lakewide 
Management Plan (LaMP) 2004. Retrieved 

September 13, 2005. 
http://www.epa.gov/glnpo/lakemich/2004upda 
te/index.html
. Management Advisory Group (MAG). 1992. 
Recommendations from the Management 

Advisory Group to the 
Assistant Administrator for Water Concerning EPA™s Proposed 
Expedited Combined Sewer Overflow Plan, 

Washington, DC. MAG. 1993. Combined Sewer Overflow Work 
Group Policy Dialogue Final Report. 
Washington, D.C. REF-1˜               Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of 
Greater Chicago (MWRDGC). 2005a. ﬁRiver 

Reversals to Lake Michigan, 1985-Present.ﬂ 
Retrieved August 17, 2005. 
http://www.mwrdgc.dst.il.us/mo/csoapp/excelf 

iles/Reversals.xls. MWRDGC. 2005b. Summary of CSO Reversals, 

CSO main page. Retrieved July 21, 2005. http://www.mwrdgc.dst.il.us/mo/csoapp/defaul 
t.htm. MDEQ. 2005. Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO) 
and Sanitary Sewer Overflow (SSO) Annual Report 
(January 1, 2004-December 31, 2004). 
Retrieved December 20, 2005. 
http://www.deq.state.mi.us/documents/deq˚

wb-csossoreport04.pdf
. Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District 
(MMSD). 2004. News Release: Extensive 

investigation leads to 70% reduction in May 

2004 overflow estimate. Retrieved August 19, 

2005. 
http://www.mmsd.com/n
ews/news_detail.cfm? id=74. State of Wisconsin, Legislative Audit Bureau. 

2002. An Evaluation: Milwaukee Metropolitan 

Sewerage District.
 Prepared by Paul Stuiber, 
Director of Audit Bureau. 02-12. U.S. Policy Committee for the Great Lakes (USPC). 2002. ﬁGreat Lakes Strategy 2002: A Plan 

for the New Millennium.ﬂ Retrieved August 15, 

2005. http://www.epa.gov/glnpo/gls/gls2002.pdf
. Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources 
(WDNR). 2001. 
Sewer Overflows in Wisconsin Œ A 
Report to the Natural Resources Board.
 Retrieved December 15, 2005. 
http://www.dnr.state.wi.us/org/water/wm/WW/ 

so/seweroverflows.pdf
. REF-2 ˜             Appendix A˜ Community Profiles A.1 Indiana ˜A.2 Michigan ˜A.3 Wisconsin ˜                     Appendix A Appendix A A.1 INDIANA ˜Community: Albion Permit ID: IN0022144 Active Outfalls:
 0 NMC Required: NO LTCP Required: NO LTCP Status: n/a Summary of Controls: Sewer separation, completed 
before the LTCP submission requirement. 
LTCP Implementation: n/a Community: Angola Permit ID: IN0021296 Active Outfalls:
 1 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Not submitted. Summary of Controls: A sewer separation project is in place and is expected to be completed in 6 to 8 months. 
LTCP Implementation: LTCP due in 2006. Community: Chesterton Permit ID: IN0022578, IN0M22578* 
Active Outfalls:
 1 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Submitted in 2004. Summary of Controls: Planning on or have installed screening at the WWTP. 
LTCP Implementation: Evaluating additional controls (Note: the community discharges infrequently). AŒ1˜        
      Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
Community: Crown Point Permit ID: IN0025763 Active Outfalls:
 4 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Submitted in 2002. Summary of Controls: Has proposed sewer separation. Storage for transport and 
treatment at the wastewater treatment plant. 
Community: East Chicago Permit ID: IN0022829, IN0M22829* 
Active Outfalls:
 3 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Submitted in 2004. Summary of Controls: The permittee is under a consen
t decree covering a portion of CSO requirements - additional CSO control is likely. Retention equalization pond is in 
place. Community: Elkhart Permit ID: IN0025674 Active Outfalls:
 39 NMC Required:
 YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Submitted in March 2002. Summary of Controls: DOJ, EPA, and IDEM are currently discussing completion and approval of a Long Term Control Plan and an enforceable plan of implementation with the City. Community: Gary Sanitation District 
Permit ID: IN0022977 Active Outfalls:
 11 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Permit will be reissued to clarify submittal date requirements. AŒ2 ˜                 Appendix A Community: Goshen Permit ID: IN0025755, IN0M25755* 
Active Outfalls:
 6 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Submitted in 2003. Summary of Controls: Construction of 3 relief sewers 
and a siphon and gravity sewer, screening and disinfection at the treatment facility, plant capacity upgrade. 
Elimination of all outfalls except for the outfall at the treatment plant, and fine screening and disinfection for the treatment plant outfall, are required. Community: Hammond Permit ID: IN0023060 Active Outfalls:
 20 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Submitted in 1997. Summary of Controls: The permittee is under a consen
t decree covering a portion of the CSO requirements Œ additional CSO co
ntrol is likely. Has eliminated direct downspout connections, and has proposed storage basin construction. 
LTCP Implementation: Required to eliminate 3 largest outfalls by May 1, 2010. Community: Kendallville Permit ID: IN0020656 Active Outfalls:
 1 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Submitted in 2002. Summary of Controls: Sewer separation is mostly complete. Six catch basins remain 
connected to the CSS. Community: Ligonier Permit ID: IN0023582 Active Outfalls:
 1 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Submitted in 2003. Summary of Controls: LTCP proposes sewer separation. AŒ3˜        
        Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
Community: Michigan City Permit ID: IN0023752 Active Outfalls:
 1 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Approved Summary of Controls: Retrofit of a 5 MGD retention basin that adds disinfection and dechlorination processes. Effluent limitat
ions and monitoring requirements, active outfall should not cause or contribute to exceedences of water quality criteria. 
Community: Milford Permit ID: IN0020478 Active Outfalls:
 0 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Submitted Summary of Controls: The treatment plant was upgraded to increase plant capacity. 
Enough sewer separation has been c
ompleted to eliminate all CSO outfalls. Community: Mishawaka Permit ID: IN0025640 Active Outfalls:
 18 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Submitted in January 2003. 
Summary of Controls: DOJ, EPA and IDEM are curre
ntly discussing completion and approval of a Long Term Control Plan and an enforceable schedule of implementation with the City. The City is currently mode
ling its sewer network and receiving waters. 
The City has proposed a WWTP expansion (to be completed in May 2007) and new 
interceptor construction as part of its LTCP. 
Community: Nappanee Permit ID: IN0021466 Active Outfalls:
 13 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Submitted in 2002. Summary of Controls: Planning on sewer separation, retention treatment basin 
construction, and high-rate treatment installation. 
AŒ4 ˜                     
 
 Appendix A Community: South Bend Permit ID: IN0024520, M24520* Active Outfalls:
 44 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Submitted in December 2004. Summary of Controls: DOJ, EPA and IDEM are currently discussing completion and approval of a Long Term Control Plan and an enforceable schedule of implementation with the City. Community: Valparaiso Permit ID: IN0024660 Active Outfalls:
 1 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Submitted in 2003. Summary of Controls: A retention treatment basin is in place. Community: Wakarusa Permit ID: IN0024775, M24775* Active Outfalls:
 6 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Submitted in 2004. Summary of Controls: One CSO has been eliminated. Wakarusa continues separation and has raised weirs. 
*Indicates ‚CSO-only™ permit has been issued. AŒ5˜        
        Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
A.2 MICHIGAN˜ Community: Crystal Falls Permit ID: MI0048879 Active Outfalls:
 1 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Approved Summary of Controls: Sewer separation project is nearing completion. Discharge 
monitoring and reporting. LTCP Implementation: Administrative Consent Order was amended on February 25, 
2004 which has extended the required date for the elimination of the remaining CSO outfalls due to the Michigan Department of Transportation post-separation road repairs. The new CSO outfall elimination date is November 15, 2007. Community: East Lansing Permit ID: MI0022853 Active Outfalls:
 1 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Approved Summary of Controls: Retention treatment basin in 
use. Study of WWTP discharges to 
ensure Water Quality Standards compliance when retention treatment basin is in use. 
Discharge monitoring and reporting. LTCP Implementation: Permit requires elimination of outfalls by March 1, 2006. Community: Grand Rapids Permit ID: MI0026069 Active Outfalls:
 11 (1 with a retention treatment basin) 

NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Approved Summary of Controls: A retention treatment basin is in place. A separation project eliminated several outfalls in 2001; additional separation will eliminate 10 outfalls by 
2019. Primary sedimentation, skimming, and disinfecting for Outfall 003. Discharge monitoring and reporting. LTCP Implementation: Completion of Phase III of the control program is required by 
2019. AŒ6 ˜                    
 Appendix A Community: Iron Mountain-Kingsford Permit ID: MI0023205 Active Outfalls:
 1 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Approved Summary of Controls: An existing retention treatment basin and primary sedimentation, skimming, and disinfection 
processes are in place. A sewer separation 
project is under construction. Characterization reports of retention treatment basin 
discharges and monitoring of basin performance. Discharge monitoring and reporting of all CSOs. LTCP Implementation: On or before April 4, 2008, the permittee is required to submit to MDEQ a CSO report that characterizes disch
arges from the retention treatment basin 
outfall. Community: Lansing Permit ID: MI0023400 Active Outfalls:
 27 (2 with retention treatment basins) 
NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Approved Summary of Controls: Six-phase sewer separation is unde
r construction, with first three 
phases essentially complete. An existing retention treatment basin is in place. 
Discharge monitoring and reporting. LTCP Implementation: Permit requires complete separation and elimination of 
overflows by 2019. Community: Manistee Permit ID: MI0020362 Active Outfalls:
 4 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Approved Summary of Controls: Sewer separation project is
 currently being implemented. 
Discharge monitoring and reporting. LTCP Implementation: Permit requires elimination of overflows from outfall 014 by end-of-year 2011, and elimination of 3 remaining outfalls by December 31, 2016. AŒ7˜        
   Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
Community: Manistique Permit ID: MI0023515 Active Outfalls:
 1 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Approved Summary of Controls: The remaining outfall is schedu
led to be separated. Discharge 
monitoring and reporting. LTCP Implementation: Permit requires elimination of discharges from the remaining outfall by 2020. Community: Menominee Permit ID: MI0025631 Active Outfalls:
 0 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Approved Summary of Controls: The LTCP was a sewer separation 
project, and is complete. No 
CSO discharges are authorized. 
LTCP Implementation: LTCP complete, CSO discharges have been eliminated. 
Community: Niles Permit ID: MI0023701 Active Outfalls:
 8 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Approved Summary of Controls: A sewer separation project will eliminate outfalls. An existing retention treatment basin is in place. E
ffluent limitations and primary sedimentation 
and disinfection requirements for the retention treatment basin outfall. Other outfalls 
may not overflow during a 10-year/1 hour storm event. Discharge monitoring and 
reporting. LTCP Implementation: Permit requires elimination of overflows by 2012, and elimination of retention treatment basin discharges by 2014. Community: Norway Permit ID: MI0020214 Active Outfalls:
 1 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Approved AŒ8 ˜             Appendix A Summary of Controls: Retention treatment basin. Discharge monitoring and reporting. 
LTCP Implementation: LTCP has been completed. Community: St. Joseph Permit ID: MI0026735 Active Outfalls:
 5 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required: YES LTCP Status: Approved Summary of Controls: The LTCP calls for flow redu
ction through sewer rehabilitation and inflow/infiltration removal, which will eliminate CSOs. Discharge monitoring and reporting. LTCP Implementation: Permit requires completion of LTCP construction by 2013. AŒ9˜        
      Report to Congress on Combined Sewer 
Overflows to the Lake Michigan Basin 
A.3 WISCONSIN ˜Community: Milwaukee Permit ID: WI0036820 
Active Outfalls:
 117 NMC Required: YES LTCP Required?: YES LTCP Status: Complete LTCP due by June 2007. Summary of Controls: Diversion of CSOs to the Inline Storage System (ISS). Discharge 
monitoring and reporting. AŒ10 ˜