Beth Mole  23 August 2013  Article tools Rights &amp; Permissions         Jonathan H. Epstein/EcoHealth Alliance Scientists believe that the Egyptian tomb bat is a reservoir for a new coronavirus.
 Bats have been pinpointed as a source of the coronavirus that has infected 94 people, killing 47 of them, since it emerged in the Middle East in April last year.
 An international team of researchers has found a tiny genetic fragment that seems to be from the virus in a faecal sample from an Egyptian tomb bat1.
 The scientists surveyed 96 bats in Saudi Arabia in October and April, after the first cases of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) were reported there.
 “Although it’s a short fragment, because it’s 100% identical, it indicates this is the same virus,” says epidemiologist Ian Lipkin of Columbia University in New York city who led the study.
 His team reported the result on 21 August in the journal Emerging Infectious Diseases.
 Because bats carry many types of coronavirus, it was widely thought that they were the ultimate source of MERS-CoV, which causes severe pneumonia in humans.
 But researchers have struggled to gather information that could help them to understand how the virus spreads, including which animals transmit the infection.
 Identity crisis Lipkin believes that he has got solid proof that bats are a reservoir for the virus.
 But other researchers are not convinced that the fragment his team has identified confirms the presence of MERS-CoV.
 Chantal Reusken, an infectious-disease researcher at the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment in Bilthoven, the Netherlands, points to weaknesses in the data linking the bat virus to the MERS-CoV that infects humans.
 Reusken notes that the study authors could sequence only a 190-nucleotide-long segment of the 30,000-nucleotide coronavirus genome.
 Studies have suggested that sequences of at least 800 nucleotides are necessary to accurately determine how closely viruses are related2.
 “It can absolutely not be ruled out that it is a sequence derived not from MERS-CoV but from another, closely related MERS-CoV like virus,” Reusken says.
 Patrick Chiu Yat Woo, a bat-coronavirus expert at the University of Hong Kong, agrees.
 “The finding is, of course, important, but it has to be reproduced by others, and it has to be found in other bats.” Woo says that when a new coronavirus is found, the whole genome should be sequenced if possible.
 Small differences in the genomes of related viruses can hint at the types of animal that a virus infects.
 So far, camels are the only other animal implicated in the spread of MERS-CoV, on the basis of the results of blood antibody tests3.
 But because few people encounter bats or camels, researchers speculate that other animals spread the virus to humans.
 Despite the gaps in these latest findings, Stanley Perlman, a coronavirus researcher at the University of Iowa in Iowa City, says the research is important because it confirms that bats carry MERS-CoV or a related virus.
 “It’s certainly closely related,” he says, “but you can’t say how closely related.”   Journal name: Nature DOI: doi:10.1038/nature.2013.13597      References    Memish, Z.
 A. et al.
 Emerg.
 Infect.
 Dis.
 http://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid1911.131172 (2013).
 Drexler, J. F. et al.
 J. Virol.
 84, 11336–11349 (2010).
 ArticlePubMedISIChemPort   Reusken, C. B. et al.
 Lancet Infect.
 Dis.
 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S1473-3099(13)70164-6 (2013).
 Related stories and links  From nature.com Scientists look to Saudi Arabia for coronavirus clues17 May 2013Receptor for new coronavirus found13 March 2013Tensions linger over discovery of coronavirus14 January 2013 From elsewhere Coronavirus infections, WHO       Author information   Author details   Beth Mole  Search for this author in  NPG journals PubMed Google Scholar          For the best commenting experience, please login or register as a user and agree to our Community Guidelines.
 You will be re-directed back to this page where you will see comments updating in real-time and have the ability to recommend comments to other users.
 Comments  Commenting is currently unavailable.
 Social Media Box - AML   E-alert RSS Facebook  Twitter    Close Follow @naturenews              What matters in science — and why — free in your inbox every weekday.
 Sign up           Listen   Nature Podcast  Our award-winning show features highlights from the week's edition of Nature, interviews with the people behind the science, and in-depth commentary and analysis from journalists around the world.
 Science jobs from nature jobs   Deputy Director of Nanoscopy Center in SLST, ShanghaiTech ShanghaiTech University   Deputy Director of Nanoscopy Center in SLST, ShanghaiTech ShanghaiTech University   Vice Dean for Faculty Affairs in School of Life Science and Technology (SLST), ShanghaiTech University ShanghaiTech University   Vice Dean for Faculty Affairs in School of Life Science and Technology (SLST), ShanghaiTech University ShanghaiTech University   Research Scientists in Multiple Fields Oxford Suzhou Centre for Advanced Research   Post a JobMore Science Jobs        Nature ISSN: 0028-0836 EISSN: 1476-4687    About us Contact us Accessibility statement Help   Privacy policy Use of cookies Legal notice Terms   Nature jobs Nature Asia Nature Education RSS web feeds   About Nature Contact Nature About the Editors Nature awards    Search      Go     © 2019 Macmillan Publishers Limited, part of Springer Nature.
 All Rights Reserved.
 partner of AGORA, HINARI, OARE, INASP, CrossRef and COUNTER
