S/RES/1970 (2011) 
  11-24558 2   Underlining the need to respect the freedoms of peaceful assembly and of 
expression, including freedom of the media, 
 Stressing
 the need to hold to account those responsible for attacks, including 
by forces under their control, on civilians, 
 Recalling article 16 of the Rome Statute under which no investigation or 
prosecution may be commenced or proceeded with by the International Criminal 
Court for a period of 12 months after a S
ecurity Council request to that effect, 
 Expressing concern
 for the safety of foreign nationals and their rights in the 
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, 
 Reaffirming
 its strong commitment to the sovereignty, independence, territorial 
integrity and national unity of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. 

 Mindful of its primary responsibility for the 
maintenance of international peace 
and security under the Charter of the United Nations, 

 Acting under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, and taking 
measures under its Article 41, 

 1. Demands an immediate end to the violence and calls for steps to fulfil the 
legitimate demands of the population; 

 2. Urges
 the Libyan authorities to: 
 (a) Act with the utmost restraint, 
respect human rights and international 
humanitarian law, and allow immediate 
access for international human rights 
monitors; 
 (b) Ensure the safety of all foreign na
tionals and their assets and facilitate 
the departure of those wishing to leave the country; 

 (c) Ensure the safe passage of humanitarian and medical supplies, and 
humanitarian agencies and workers, into the country; and 
 (d) Immediately lift restrictions on all forms of media; 

 3. Requests all Member States, to the extent possible, to cooperate in the 
evacuation of those foreign nationals wishing to leave the country; 
   ICC referral 
  4. Decides
 to refer the situation in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya since 
15 February 2011 to the Prosecutor of
 the International Criminal Court; 
 5. Decides
 that the Libyan authorities shall cooperate fully with and provide 
any necessary assistance to the Court and the Prosecutor pursuant to this resolution 
and, while recognizing that States not party to the Rome Statute have no obligation 

under the Statute, urges all States and concerned regional and other international 

organizations to cooperate fully with the Court and the Prosecutor; 
 6. Decides
 that nationals, current or former officials or personnel from a 
State outside the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya whic
h is not a party to the Rome Statute of 
the International Criminal Court shall be s
ubject to the exclusive jurisdiction of that 
State for all alleged acts or omissions arisi
ng out of or related to operations in the 
  S/RES/1970 (2011)
 3 11-24558  Libyan Arab Jamahiriya established or authorized by the Council, unless such 
exclusive jurisdiction has been expressly waived by the State;  
 7. Invites
 the Prosecutor to address the Secu
rity Council within two months 
of the adoption of this resolution and every six months thereafter on actions taken 
pursuant to this resolution;  
 8. Recognizes
 that none of the expenses incurred in connection with the 
referral, including expenses related to inve
stigations or prosecutions in connection 
with that referral, shall be borne by the Un
ited Nations and that such costs shall be 
borne by the parties to the Rome Statute and those States that wish to contribute 
voluntarily; 
   Arms embargo 
  9. Decides
 that all Member States shall immediately take the necessary 
measures to prevent the direct or indirect s
upply, sale or transfer to the Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya, from or through their territories or by their nationals, or using their flag 

vessels or aircraft, of arms and related ma
teriel of all types, including weapons and 
ammunition, military vehicles and equipm
ent, paramilitary equipment, and spare 
parts for the aforementioned, and technical 
assistance, training, financial or other 
assistance, related to militar
y activities or the provision, maintenance or use of any 
arms and related materiel, including the 
provision of armed mercenary personnel 
whether or not originating in their territori
es, and decides further that this measure 
shall not apply to: 
 (a) Supplies of non-lethal military equipment intended solely for 
humanitarian or protective use, and related technical assistance or training, as 

approved in advance by the Committee established pursuant to paragraph 24 below; 
 (b) Protective clothing, including 
flak jackets and military helmets, 
temporarily exported to the Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya by United Nations personnel, 
representatives of the media and humanitarian and development works and 
associated personnel, for their personal use only; or 
 (c) Other sales or supply of arms 
and related materiel, or provision of 
assistance or personnel, as approved in advance by the Committee;  

 10. Decides
 that the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya shall cease the export of all 
arms and related materiel and that all Member States shall prohibit the procurement 
of such items from the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya by their nationals, or using their 

flagged vessels or aircraft, and whether or
 not originating in the territory of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya; 
 11. 
Calls upon all States, in particular States neighbouring the Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya, to inspect, in accordance with
 their national authorities and legislation 
and consistent with international law, in 
particular the law of the sea and relevant 
international civil aviation agreements, 
all cargo to and from the Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya, in their territory, including seap
orts and airports, if the State concerned 
has information that provides reasonable grounds to believe the cargo contains items 
the supply, sale, transfer, or export of wh
ich is prohibited by paragraphs 9 or 10 of 
this resolution for the purpose of ensuring strict implementation of those provisions;  
 12. Decides
 to authorize all Member States to, and that all Member States 
shall, upon discovery of items prohibited by paragraph 9 or 10 of this resolution, 
 S/RES/1970 (2011) 
  11-24558 4  seize and dispose (such as through destruc
tion, rendering inoperable, storage or 
transferring to a State other than the originating or destination States for disposal) 
items the supply, sale, transfer or export 
of which is prohibited by paragraph 9 or 10 
of this resolution and decides further that 
all Member States shall cooperate in such 
efforts; 
 13. Requires
 any Member State when it undertakes an inspection pursuant to 
paragraph 11 above, to submit promptly 
an initial written report to the Committee 
containing, in particular, explanation of the grounds for the inspections, the results 
of such inspections, and whether or not c
ooperation was provided, and, if prohibited 
items for transfer are found, further requires such Member States to submit to the 
Committee, at a later stage, a subsequent written report containing relevant details 
on the inspection, seizure, and disposal, and relevant details of the transfer, 

including a description of the items, their or
igin and intended destination, if this 
information is not in the initial report; 
 14. Encourages
 Member States to take steps to strongly discourage their 
nationals from travelling to the Libyan Arab
 Jamahiriya to participate in activities 
on behalf of the Libyan authorities that coul
d reasonably contribute to the violation 
of human rights;  
   Travel ban 
  15. Decides
 that all Member States shall take the necessary measures to 
prevent the entry into or transit through their territories of individuals listed in 
Annex I of this resolution or designated by the Committee established pursuant to 
paragraph 24 below, provided that nothing in this paragraph shall oblige a State to 

refuse its own nationals entry into its territory;  
 16. Decides
 that the measures imposed by paragraph 15 above shall not 
apply:  (a) Where the Committee determines on a case-by-case basis that such travel 
is justified on the grounds of humanitarian need, including religious obligation;  
 (b) Where entry or transit is necessary for the fulfilment of a judicial 
process;   (c) Where the Committee determines on a case-by-case basis that an 
exemption would further the objectives of
 peace and national reconciliation in the 
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and 
stability in the region; or  (d) Where a State determines on a case-by-case basis that such entry or 

transit is required to advance peace and stability in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and 
the States subsequently notifies the Committee within forty-eight hours after making 
such a determination; 
   Asset freeze 
  17. Decides
 that all Member States shall fr
eeze without delay all funds, other 
financial assets and economic resources wh
ich are on their territories, which are 
owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the individuals or entities listed in 
Annex II of this resolution or designated by the Committee established pursuant to 
paragraph 24 below, or by individuals or 
entities acting on their behalf or at their 
direction, or by entities owned or contro
lled by them, and decides further that all 
  S/RES/1970 (2011)
 5 11-24558  Member States shall ensure that any funds, financial assets or economic resources 
are prevented from being made available by their nationals or by any individuals or 

entities within their territories, to or for 
the benefit of the individuals or entities 
listed in Annex II of this resolution or 
individuals designated by the Committee;  
 18. Expresses
 its intention to ensure that asse
ts frozen pursuant to paragraph 
17 shall at a later stage be made available to and for the benefit of the people of the 

Libyan Arab Jamahiriya; 
 19. Decides
 that the measures imposed by paragraph 17 above do not apply 
to funds, other financial assets or economic resources that have been determined by 
relevant Member States: 
 (a) To be necessary for basic expenses, including payment for foodstuffs, 
rent or mortgage, medicines and medical tr
eatment, taxes, insurance premiums, and 
public utility charges or exclusively for pa
yment of reasonable professional fees and 
reimbursement of incurred expenses associated with the provision of legal services 
in accordance with national laws, or fees or service charges, in accordance with 

national laws, for routine holding or maintenance of frozen funds, other financial 

assets and economic resources, after no
tification by the relevant State to the 
Committee of the intention to authorize, where appropriate, access to such funds, 

other financial assets or economic resources and in the absence of a negative 

decision by the Committee within five wo
rking days of such notification;  
 (b) To be necessary for extraordinary expenses, provided that such 
determination has been notified by the relevant State or Member States to the 
Committee and has been approved by the Committee; or 
 (c) To be the subject of a judicial, administrative or arbitral lien or judgment, 
in which case the funds, other financial assets and economic resources may be used 

to satisfy that lien or judgment provided that the lien or judgment was entered into 

prior to the date of the present resolution, 
is not for the benefit of a person or entity 
designated pursuant to paragraph 17 above
, and has been notified by the relevant 
State or Member States to the Committee;  
 20. Decides
 that Member States may permit the addition to the accounts 
frozen pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 17 above of interests or other 
earnings due on those accounts or payments
 due under contracts, agreements or 
obligations that arose prior to the date on which those accounts became subject to 

the provisions of this resolution, provided th
at any such interest, other earnings and 
payments continue to be subject to these provisions and are frozen;  
 21. Decides
 that the measures in paragraph 17 above shall not prevent a 
designated person or entity from making payment due under a contract entered into 
prior to the listing of such a person or entity, provided that the relevant States have 

determined that the payment is not directly
 or indirectly received by a person or 
entity designated pursuant to paragraph 17 above, and after notification by the 
relevant States to the Committee of the intention to make or receive such payments 

or to authorize, where appropriate, the unfreezing of funds, other financial assets or 

economic resources for this purpose, 10 working days prior to such authorization; 
 S/RES/1970 (2011) 
  11-24558 6    Designation criteria 
  22. Decides
 that the measures contained in 
paragraphs 15 and 17 shall apply 
to the individuals and entities designated by the Committee, pursuant to paragraph 
24 (b) and (c), respectively; 
 (a) Involved in or complicit in ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, 
the commission of serious human rights abuses against persons in the Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya, including by being involved in or complicit in planning, commanding, 

ordering or conducting attacks, in violati
on of international law, including aerial 
bombardments, on civilian populations and facilities; or  
 (b) Acting for or on behalf of or at 
the direction of individuals or entities 
identified in subparagraph (a). 

 23. Strongly encourages
 Member States to submit to the Committee names of 
individuals who meet the criteria 
set out in paragraph 22 above; 
   New Sanctions Committee 
  24. Decides
 to establish, in accordance with 
rule 28 of its provisional rules of 
procedure, a Committee of the Security C
ouncil consisting of all the members of the 
Council (herein "the Committee"), to
 undertake to following tasks: 
 (a) To monitor implementation of the measures imposed in paragraphs 9, 10, 
15, and 17; 
 (b) To designate those individuals subject to the measures imposed by 
paragraphs 15 and to consider requests for exemptions in accordance with paragraph 

16 above; 
 (c) To designate those individuals subject to the measures imposed by 
paragraph 17 above and to consider reque
sts for exemptions in accordance with 
paragraphs 19 and 20 above; 
 (d) To establish such guidelines as
 may be necessary to facilitate the 
implementation of the measures imposed above; 
 (e) To report within thirty days to the Security Council on its work for the 
first report and thereafter to report as deemed necessary by the Committee;  
 (f) To encourage a dialogue between the Committee and interested Member 
States, in particular those in the region, including by inviting representatives of such 

States to meet with the Committee to discuss implementation of the measures; 
 (g) To seek from all States whatever information it may consider useful 
regarding the actions taken by them to implement effectively the measures imposed 

above;  
 (h) To examine and take appropriate action on information regarding alleged 
violations or non-compliance with the measures contained in this resolution; 
 25. Calls upon all Member States to report to the Committee within 120 days 
of the adoption of this resolution on the steps they have taken with a view to 
implementing effectively paragr
aphs 9, 10, 15 and 17 above;  
    S/RES/1970 (2011)
 7 11-24558    Humanitarian assistance 
  26. Calls upon all Member States, working together and acting in 
cooperation with the Secretary General, to
 facilitate and support the return of 
humanitarian agencies and make available humanitarian and related assistance in the 
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and requests the States concerned to keep the Security 

Council regularly informed on the progress of actions undertaken pursuant to this 
paragraph, and expresses its readiness to
 consider taking additional appropriate 
measures, as necessary, to achieve this; 
   Commitment to review 
  27. Affirms
 that it shall keep the Libyan authorities™ actions under continuous 
review and that it shall be prepared to review the appropriateness of the measures 
contained in this resolution, including the strengthening, modification, suspension 

or lifting of the measures, as may be needed at any time in light of the Libyan 

authorities™ compliance w
ith relevant provisions of this resolution; 
 28. Decides
 to remain actively se
ized of the matter. 
 S/RES/1970 (2011) 
  11-24558 8  Annex I 
  Travel ban 
  1. Al-Baghdadi, Dr Abdulqader Mohammed 
 Passport number: B010574. Date of birth: 01/07/1950. 

 Head of the Liaison Office of the Revolutionary Committees. Revolutionary 
Committees involved in violence against demonstrators. 
2. Dibri, Abdulqader Yusef 

 Date of birth: 1946. Place of birth: Houn, Libya. 

 Head of Muammar Qadhafi
™s personal security. Responsibility for regime 
security. History of directing violence against dissidents. 
3. Dorda, Abu Zayd Umar 

 Director, External Security Organisation. Regime loyalist. Head of external 
intelligence agency. 
4. Jabir, Major General Abu Bakr Yunis 
 Date of birth: 1952. Place of birth: Jalo, Libya. 

 Defence Minister. Overall responsib
ility for actions of armed forces. 
5. Matuq, Matuq Mohammed 

 Date of birth: 1956. Place of birth: Khoms. 

 Secretary for Utilities. Senior memb
er of regime. Involvement with 
Revolutionary Committees. Past history of involvement in suppression of 
dissent and violence. 
6. Qadhaf Al-dam, Sayyid Mohammed 
 Date of birth: 1948. Place of birth: Sirte, Libya. 

 Cousin of Muammar Qadhafi. In the 1980s, Sayyid was involved in the 
dissident assassination campaign and alle
gedly responsible for several deaths 
in Europe. He is also thought to have been involved in arms procurement.  
7. Qadhafi, Aisha Muammar 

 Date of birth: 1978. Place of birth: Tripoli, Libya.  

 Daughter of Muammar Qadhafi. Closen
ess of association with regime. 
8. Qadhafi, Hannibal Muammar 

 Passport number: B/002210. Date of birth: 20/09/1975. Place of birth: Tripoli, 
Libya. Son of Muammar Qadhafi. Closeness of association with regime. 
9. Qadhafi, Khamis Muammar 

 Date of birth: 1978. Place of birth: Tripoli, Libya. 

 Son of Muammar Qadhafi. Closeness of association with regime. Command of 
military units involved in repression of demonstrations. 
   S/RES/1970 (2011)
 9 11-24558  10. Qadhafi, Mohammed Muammar 
 Date of birth: 1970. Place of birth: Tripoli, Libya. 

 Son of Muammar Qadhafi. Closeness of association with regime. 

11. Qadhafi, Muammar Mohammed Abu Minyar 

 Date of birth: 1942. Place of birth: Sirte, Libya. 

 Leader of the Revolution, Supreme Commander of Armed Forces. 
Responsibility for ordering repression of demonstrations, human rights abuses. 
12. Qadhafi, Mutassim 

 Date of birth: 1976. Place of birth: Tripoli, Libya. 

 National Security Adviser. Son of Muammar Qadhafi. Closeness of association 
with regime. 13. Qadhafi, Saadi 
 Passport number: 014797. Date of birth:
 25/05/1973. Place of birth: Tripoli, 
Libya.  Commander Special Forces. Son of
 Muammar Qadhafi. Closeness of 
association with regime. Command of mil
itary units involved in repression of 
demonstrations. 
14. Qadhafi, Saif al-Arab 

 Date of birth: 1982. Place of birth: Tripoli, Libya. 

 Son of Muammar Qadhafi. Closeness of association with regime. 

15. Qadhafi, Saif al-Islam 

 Passport number: B014995. Date of birth: 25/06/1972. Place of birth: Tripoli, 
Libya.  Director, Qadhafi Foundation. Son of Muammar Qadhafi. Closeness of 
association with regime. Inflammatory public statements encouraging violence 
against demonstrators. 
16. Al-Senussi, Colonel Abdullah  
 Date of birth: 1949. Place of birth: Sudan. 

 Director Military Intelligence. M
ilitary Intelligence involvement in 
suppression of demonstrations. Past history includes suspicion of involvement 
in Abu Selim prison massacre. Convicted in absentia for bombing of UTA 

flight. Brother -in-law of Muammar Qadhafi. 
 S/RES/1970 (2011) 
  11-24558 10  Annex II 
  Asset freeze 
  1. Qadhafi, Aisha Muammar 
 Date of birth: 1978. Place of birth: Tripoli, Libya.  

 Daughter of Muammar Qadhafi. Closen
ess of association with regime. 
2. Qadhafi, Hannibal Muammar 

 Passport number: B/002210. Date of birth: 20/09/1975. Place of birth: Tripoli, 
Libya. Son of Muammar Qadhafi. Closeness of association with regime. 
3. Qadhafi, Khamis Muammar 

 Date of birth: 1978. Place of birth: Tripoli, Libya. 

 Son of Muammar Qadhafi. Closeness of association with regime. Command of 
military units involved in repression of demonstrations. 
4. Qadhafi, Muammar Mohammed Abu Minyar 
 Date of birth: 1942. Place of birth: Sirte, Libya. 
 Leader of the Revolution, Supreme Commander of Armed Forces. 
Responsibility for ordering repression of demonstrations, human rights abuses. 
5. Qadhafi, Mutassim 

 Date of birth: 1976. Place of birth: Tripoli, Libya. 

 National Security Adviser. Son of Muammar Qadhafi. Closeness of association 
with regime. 6. Qadhafi, Saif al-Islam 

 Passport number: B014995. Date of birth: 25/06/1972. Place of birth: Tripoli, 
Libya.  Director, Qadhafi Foundation. Son of Muammar Qadhafi. Closeness of 
association with regime. Inflammatory public statements encouraging violence 
against demonstrators. 
  
 