He added that Republicans don’t have control of the floor and, therefore, should not be subjected to attacks the matter.“We are not in the majority, we cannot determine the floor so Speaker Pelosi left and had us leave Congress.
 he added.
 "Are they playing politics and holding the money up so their political arm can attack Republicans on this issue?
 Can they for one time put people before politics?”McCarthy also called on Pelosi to issue an apology and for the DCCC to refrain from running the ads, adding that GOP lawmakers are working to make sure the resources needed to combat the virus from spreading are available.“I think they owe the American public an apology.
 I think the Speaker needs to apologize, Cheri BustosCheryl (Cheri) Lea BustosDemocrats' post-election 'family meeting' descends into chaos Democrats try to draft Cardenas to run campaign arm after disappointing night The Hill's 12:30 Report: How to read the battleground votes trickling in MORE needs to take those ads down and stop playing politics with this.
 America is nervous, we've been preparing for years in advance,” he said, referring to the DCCC chairwoman, a Democratic representative from Illinois.“We've got to make sure we have all the needed resources there so bring the bill to the floor.
 You've seen Republicans in every single meeting, trying to work through this to get this done now.
 You do not see ads coming out for Republicans, but we do see from the Democratic Congressional Committee," he added.
 "Washington Republicans are already blocking bipartisan House-passed legislation to bring down the cost of prescription drugs," Patterson added.
 "It’s disgraceful that their obedience to drug manufacturers is holding up the government’s response to a virus that threatens millions of Americans.”The comments come one day after the DCCC announced the ads, which would be running on Facebook in both English and Spanish.
 The ads take aim at Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar’s comments, referring to an affordable coronavirus treatment, during a hearing last week that the administration “can’t control that price because we need the private sector.” “The Trump administration would rather pad the pockets of drug manufacturers than provide access to an affordable coronavirus vaccine,” the ads say.The House is expected to vote on a supplemental coronavirus funding package this week.—This report was updated at 12:25 p.m.
 This is how she got it back.
 Changing America      More From The Web  Sponsored                Don't miss a brief.
 Sign up for our daily email.
