Brad Biggs’ 10 thoughts on the Chicago Bears’ Week 9 loss to the Tennessee Titans.
 Pfizer says early data signals COVID-19 vaccine is more than 90% effective; company on track for emergency use application     What’s a runoff, and why are there two?
 Here’s why Georgia matters when it comes to control of the Senate     Hundreds of Illinois schools potentially exposed to COVID-19 in last month, new contact tracing data shows     Winners and losers from the Chicago Bears’ Week 9 loss, including Dick Stockton’s late Fox assignment, Jim Harbaugh speculation and warm weather     Can you catch COVID-19 twice?
 Is immunity real?
 What about ocular transmission?
 Health and science experts answer reader questions about the coronavirus.
 Biden could roll back Trump agenda with blitz of executive actions     Column: A Trump concession speech: ‘I hereby concede that I beat Sleepy Joe Biden’     Coronavirus in Illinois updates: 10,009 new confirmed and probable COVID-19 cases and 42 additional deaths reported Sunday     Editorial: Pritzker has budget options that don’t include draconian tax hikes or a machete     Trump vs. Biden: Inside Chicago’s politically split 41st Ward — ‘I don’t talk about it, you know?’    Naperville-area woman shot boyfriend, then video-chatted another woman he had been dating, prosecutors allege     Column: How exactly did the Chicago Bears bumble their way to a 3rd consecutive loss?
 You don’t want to know.
 On the Democratic side, former President Bill Clinton visited Chicago-area African-American churches in support of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, as did several supporting congressmen.
 Her rival, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, added a late night Monday rally in Chicago to his pre-primary day schedule.
 Trump, meanwhile, found a more conducive location than Chicago for his brash and controversial rhetoric by going to the central Illinois community of Bloomington.
 Still, his airport-hangar rally was interrupted occasionally and the city's newspaper, The Pantagraph, urged Republicans to vote for anyone but Trump, even though the paper doesn't endorse candidates in primary elections.
 Inside the rally, multiple pockets of protesters made themselves known, yelling "Dump Trump" as they were booed and escorted out by security.
 Some held colorful flags with peace signs, while others ripped up Trump signs and flashed T-shirts supporting Democrat Sanders.
 "Get them out of here, please," said Trump, a reality show TV star.
 "You see where they place themselves?
 Right in front of the cameras.
 Disgusting."
 [Most read] Time for a change?
 Brad Biggs’ 10 thoughts on the Chicago Bears’ Week 9 loss to the Tennessee Titans.
 »  The Downstate event came after Trump pulled the plug on a Friday night rally in Chicago as thousands of protesters gathered outside and hundreds more were in the arena after getting tickets online through his campaign.
 After Trump canceled, citing security concerns, there were scattered skirmishes between supporters and demonstrators inside and outside the University of Illinois at Chicago Pavilion.
 Security in Bloomington was tight Sunday, with attendees told to leave bags and umbrellas in their vehicles, forcing some to don black trash bags to protect against the rain as they waited to pass through metal detectors.
 Hundreds of people didn't make it inside.
 Also outside was a group of about 100 protesters, who waved anti-Trump signs and chanted "Mr.
 Hate, leave our state."
 "We are quite a bit ahead in Illinois, but I don't want to tell you that," saying he still wanted attendees to get to the polls.
 "The more we win by … the more delegates we're going to get."
 "I will never let you down," Trump said.
 "You will say it's the most important vote you ever cast."
 Trump took multiple swipes at Democrats and Republicans alike.
 He accused Sanders of flailing, labeled Republican Texas Sen. Ted Cruz as "Lying Ted" and declared he would sweep GOP Gov.
 John Kasich in his home state of Ohio.
 [Most read] Hundreds of Illinois schools potentially exposed to COVID-19 in last month, new contact tracing data shows »  Cruz has scheduled a multicity fly-around of Illinois on Monday.
 Sen. Marco Rubio has remained in his home state of Florida, which also votes Tuesday and where he has staked the future of his campaign.
 "Your taxes are through the roof, your companies are leaving you.
 You have nothing going," said Trump, who then went on to blast the Ohio economy and Kasich's vote as a congressman in favor of the North American Free Trade Agreement.
 Trump and Kasich are running close in Ohio ahead of Tuesday's election.
 At one point, after again saying he would build a wall along the Mexican border to stop illegal immigration, Trump pulled a man up to the stage who was wearing a shirt that read "legal immigrant for Trump."
 As for building the wall, Trump said, "We'll insist on using Caterpillar, not Komatsu," a shoutout to the tractor maker and large employer headquartered 45 miles away in Peoria.
 The Bloomington speech came after Trump appeared on NBC's "Meet the Press," where he said he doesn't condone violence at his rallies but also does not "take responsibility" for the tense atmosphere at his events that his rhetoric creates.
 Trump said he has "instructed his people" to look into paying the legal fees of a 78-year-old man charged with assault after he sucker-punched a protester at a North Carolina rally.
 "He loves his country" and may have gotten "carried away," said Trump, who argued the supporter was provoked by the protester.
 [Most read] Pfizer says early data signals COVID-19 vaccine is more than 90% effective; company on track for emergency use application »  In Chicago and west suburban Maywood, the former Democratic president sought to position his wife as the candidate who can heal a nation.
 "If you want to be able to say in four or eight years, we're better off than we were when she started, our children have a brighter future, it's wonderful that we've come together again instead of being ripped apart, you should vote for her on Tuesday," he told about 150 people at St. Luke's Missionary Baptist Church in the South Shore neighborhood.
 Both the former secretary of state and opponent Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders have aggressively courted black voters in recent days.
 Sanders has sought to boost his chances by attacking Clinton ally Mayor Rahm Emanuel, whose approval rating has plummeted among the city's minority voters over the Laquan McDonald shooting controversy and the closing of nearly 50 schools mostly on Chicago's South and West sides.
 The former president did not mention Trump by name but made reference to some of the businessman's more controversial proposals that have racial undertones, including a ban on Muslim immigrants and the border wall.
 Clinton also referenced efforts to stir up anger among voters frustrated with the lack of rising wages and opportunities after the country's emergence from the Great Recession.
 "You're not happy.
 Let me tell you who to blame.
 Let's build a wall around the country.
 Let's blame the Mexicans.
 But there's a problem with blaming the Mexicans, they've been going home to Mexico since 2010 and we haven't had an increase in undocumented immigrants," Clinton told about 400 people at the Rock of Ages Baptist Church in Maywood.
 [Most read] What’s a runoff, and why are there two?
 Here’s why Georgia matters when it comes to control of the Senate »  "Let's blame the Muslims.
 There's a problem with blaming the Muslims," Clinton continued.
 "A huge majority of them hate this terrorism as much as we do, and we can't win the battle for hearts and minds of people over social media without the Muslims in America standing up and saying, 'This is wrong.
 It is immoral and it is not sanctioned by any religion on Earth, and we have to stand together.'"
 At both church appearances, Clinton spent just as much time giving political commentary as he did talking up the former secretary of state's credentials to be president.
 Choosing the nation's next leader, he suggested, should extend beyond the raw emotions that have been on display in recent days.
 "We have to tear down the barriers that are keeping all of us from participating, not build more walls," Clinton said in another veiled reference to Trump.
 "This is an election about responsibility over resentment, about possibility over protest.
 We have to decide whether we want to vent our anger or come out with answers.
 That's what this whole thing's about."
 On that last topic, Clinton again made an indirect reference to another controversy — the McDonald police shooting scandal.
 The black teen was shot 16 times by a white officer, but murder charges were not filed until more than a year later after a judge ordered Emanuel to release a police video of the shooting the mayor had fought to keep under wraps.
 Sanders has sharply criticized Emanuel in recent days, calling the mayor's record "disastrous" and calling on Clinton to reject his endorsement.
 On Sunday, the former president made no mention of Emanuel, but did allude to the long delay in releasing the McDonald video.
 [Most read] Can you catch COVID-19 twice?
 Is immunity real?
 What about ocular transmission?
 Health and science experts answer reader questions about the coronavirus.
 »  "She believes we need police reform," Clinton said.
 "We shouldn't have to go through what this community went through, where everybody is waiting around for a video.
 There's a simple answer to that, a lot of cities do it.
 When the video's taken, you don't leave it with the police department, you put it in a neutral place where anybody can get it when they need it."
 Clinton's campaign also released a new radio ad featuring the mothers of Trayvon Martin, Eric Garner, Sandra Bland, Dontre Hamilton and Jordan Davis, who lost their lives to gun violence or police-involved incidents.
 "In Chicago, it keeps happening.
 Gun violence killing our kids and no one is stopping it," a narrator says in the ad, which goes on to criticize Sanders' votes on gun control issues.
 Meanwhile, candidates for state and local offices took advantage of Irish parade routes on the South Side and Northwest Side to advance their campaigns.
 On the South Side, U.S. Rep. Tammy Duckworth, in the race for the Democratic U.S. Senate nomination, kept her focus on looking ahead to a general election campaign against Republican Sen. Mark Kirk.
 "He has not voted in (constituents') interests.
 He has voted consistently for large corporations at the expense of working families," said Duckworth, who waved to crowds lining the parade route in a persistent drizzle that fell throughout the event.
 [Most read] Winners and losers from the Chicago Bears’ Week 9 loss, including Dick Stockton’s late Fox assignment, Jim Harbaugh speculation and warm weather »  On the Northwest Side, Kirk rode in the Irish parade, shielded from the nonstop rain in the passenger seat of a gold Ford Explorer with a solitary number on its license plates: 2.
 "Once you're a Republican representing Illinois, I always expected tough races," said Kirk, who was a 10-year congressman before his promotion to the Senate in 2010.
 "I've never had an easy race, especially as a congressman."
 Democratic U.S. Senate candidate Andrea Zopp walked the parade route sporting a button with the slogan "Can't stop Zopp."
 She lives in Morgan Park, and hit a reception at the South Side parade.
 State Sen. Napoleon Harris also is running in the Democratic Senate race.
 "The most challenging thing I think has been running against two opponents who are backed by different parts of the established Democratic machine," More said.
 She said before the parade that the endorsements show her tough-on-crime positions are resonating.
 Latest Politics  Trump vs. Biden: Inside Chicago’s politically split 41st Ward — ‘I don’t talk about it, you know?’  Nov 8, 2020    Jubilation, disappointment, wariness and hope: Chicagoans react to Joe Biden’s presumptive victory over President Donald Trump  Nov 7, 2020    Pandemic, lack of trust in government and Madigan effect help send graduated tax amendment to defeat  Nov 6, 2020    The Spin: Duckworth, Quigley now leaning on Madigan | Pritzker in self-isolation after COVID-19 exposure | Will we have a winner soon?
 | Near record voter turnout and partisan divide  Nov 6, 2020    U.S. Sen. Tammy Duckworth, U.S. Rep. Mike Quigley: Time to consider replacing Michael Madigan as Illinois Democratic Party chair, House speaker  Nov 6, 2020     Foxx, who is former chief of staff to County Board President Toni Preckwinkle, campaigned at a South Side church.
 Tribune reporters Rick Pearson, Katherine Skiba, John Byrne and Celeste Bott contributed.
 hddn-mble hddn-tbl":"";           Most Read on Chicago Tribune   Chicago Bears  Time for a change?
 Brad Biggs’ 10 thoughts on the Chicago Bears’ Week 9 loss to the Tennessee Titans.
 2h     Coronavirus  Pfizer says early data signals COVID-19 vaccine is more than 90% effective; company on track for emergency use application  31m     Election 2020  What’s a runoff, and why are there two?
