 Office of the special inspector general    For the Troubled Asset Relief Program 
1801 L Street, NW, 4
th Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20220 
 SIGTARP 13-003  August 15, 2013 
  August 15, 2013  
 MEMORANDUM FOR: The Honorable Jacob 
J. Lew Œ Secretary of the Treasury  
FROM:  The Honorable Christy L. Ro
mero Œ Special Inspector General  
 for the Troubled Asset Relief Program 

 
SUBJECT:  Treasury™s Role in the 
Decision for GM To Provide Pension Payments to Delphi Employees (SIGTARP 13-003) 
 
 We are providing this report for your information and 
use.  It discusses the U.S. Department of the 
Treasury™s (ﬁTreasuryﬂ) role in the decision for the 
General Motors Corporation to top up the pension payments of certain Delphi Co
rporation hourly employees.   
 
The Office of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Progr
am conducted this audit 
(engagement code 024), under the 
authority of Public Law 110-343, as amended, which also 
incorporates the duties and responsibilities of inspectors general under the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended. 
 
We considered comments from the Department of th
e Treasury when preparing the report.  Treasury™s 
comments are addressed in the report, where applicable, and a copy of Treasury™s response is included in the Management Comments section in Appendix D.  

 
We appreciate the courtesies extende
d to our staff.  For additional information on this report, please contact me or Mr. Bruce S. Gimbel, Acting Assistan
t Deputy Special Inspector General for Audit and 
Evaluation (Bruce.Gimbel@treasury.gov
 / 202-927-8978). 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  Treasury™s Role in the Decision for GM To Provide Pension Payments to Delphi Employees  SIGTARP 13-003  August 15, 2013 
 Summary  
The U.S. Department of the Treasury™s 
(ﬁTreasuryﬂ) injection of Troubled Asset 

Relief Program (ﬁTARPﬂ) funds in General 
Motors Corporation (ﬁGMﬂ) and Chrysler 
Group LLC (ﬁChryslerﬂ) was the only bailout 

with a President™s Designee overseeing the 
companies™ restructurings Œ the Presidential 
Task Force on the Auto
 Industry (ﬁAuto Task 
Forceﬂ).  The Auto Task Force delegated the 
responsibility for GM™s 
restructuring to four 
primary officials who were part of an Auto 

Team led by Steven Rattner.  GM™s 
bankruptcy would be one of the largest and 
fastest bankruptcies in our nation™s history.  A 
new company, ﬁNew GM,ﬂ emerged from 
GM™s bankruptcy in July
 2009, with Treasury 
owning 61% of its common stock.  New GM 
purchased substantially all of GM™s assets 
while leaving behind many of its liabilities.  
One of the liabilities that New GM agreed to honor related to the pensions of certain 
former GM employees paid an hourly wage 

and represented by ce
rtain unions, and who 
had worked in GM™s automobile parts division 
that was spun off into Delphi Corporation 

(ﬁDelphiﬂ).  The four Treasury Auto Team 
officials made it clear to SIGTARP that the 
decisions made and Treasury™s role related 

to Delphi pensions had to be viewed in the 
broader context of GM™s restructuring. 
 
 What SIGTARP Found 
 
The existence of Treasury™s Auto Team and 
the role these Treasury officials played 
sharply contrasted with the role played by 

Treasury officials under other TARP 
programs.  The four Treasury Auto Team 
officials played a direct role in GM™s 

decisions and operations up to and through 
GM™s bankruptcy.  As GM™s only lender and 
later GM™s largest inve
stor, Treasury™s Auto 
Team had significant leverage and influence 
on GM™s decisions leading up to and through 

the bankruptcy, first exerted by replacing 
GM™s then-chief executive officer (ﬁCEOﬂ) 
Rick Wagoner with Treasury™s choice, Fritz 

Henderson.  According to Mr. Henderson, 
this sent a message to GM executives and 
was an early indicator that Treasury, as the 
main investor in GM, would have significant 

influence over GM™s decisions and 
operations.  After Treasury rejected GM™s 
restructuring plan, GM developed a new plan 

with significant influence and leverage from 
the Auto Team.  One GM official said, 
ﬁUltimately it was that GM is not in control.  

And GM is totally dependent.ﬂ 
 Although the Auto Team™s role was supposed 

to be advisory for matters not requiring 
Treasury™s consent under the TARP loan 
agreement, in practice, it was more than 
advisory.  The TARP loan agreement gave 
Treasury the explic
it right to approve transactions over $100 million and new 
pension obligations, but the Auto Team™s 
influence went far beyond that right.  

SIGTARP found that the Auto Team used 
their leverage as GM™s largest lender to 
influence GM to make decisions in areas that 

did not require Treasury™s consent, in line 
with Treasury™s prefer
ences.  Auto Team 
officials told SIGTARP that they ﬁhad to 

carefully manage GM,ﬂ that ﬁwe, the 
Government, were ultimately holding the 
purse stringsﬂ and ﬁGM 
realized that there 
was no other available source of money.ﬂ  
When an Auto Team official was asked by 
SIGTARP how they conveyed their 

preference, given that ultimately GM could do 
its own thing, the official said, ﬁWell they 
could, but then they couldn™t exist. I mean, as 
I said, as the lender we had a fair amount of 
leverage.ﬂ   
 Driven by broader concerns about the auto 
industry, Treasury™s Auto Team directed 

GM™s restructuring toward bankruptcy, first 
through replacing the CEO who opposed 
bankruptcy, second by ﬁhighlyﬂ suggesting to 

GM that they felt ﬁpretty stronglyﬂ that a ﬁSection 363ﬂ bankruptcy was the best 
approach.  Third, although CEO Henderson 

hoped to avoid bankruptcy through a bond 
exchange, the Auto Team, who opposed the 
exchange, communicated to GM their 

preference for 90% bondholder participation, 
a ﬁvery highﬂ level of acceptance making 
bankruptcy more likely.  When the exchange 
 Treasury™s Role in the Decision for GM To Provide Pension Payments to Delphi Employees  SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
failed, Treasury agreed to fund GM™s 
bankruptcy. 
 
Treasury™s Auto Team created a condition on 
funding GM™s bankruptcy 
that would serve as 
pressure on GM and would drive pre-

bankruptcy negotiations and decisions.  
Treasury conditioned giving GM $30.1 billion in TARP funds on a ﬁquick-rinse bankruptcyﬂ 

that would end in 40 days because Auto 
Team officials thought that was the best way 
to save the automobile industry, concerned 

that GM could not 
survive a lengthy 
bankruptcy and GM™s failure would have 
broader systemic consequences.  Neither 
Treasury nor GM believed that the company 
could survive a lengthy
 bankruptcy; however, 
GM thought that the 40-day timeline was not 
realistic, with its lawyer telling the Auto Team 
that it was ﬁimpossibly aggressive. It™s never 

been done.ﬂ  Treasury had leverage to set a 
timeframe that did not seem realistic to GM, 
and had never been done before.  If GM™s 

bankruptcy was not completed in time, GM 
risked losing its only source of financing and 
its purchaser in bankruptcy. 

 Treasury™s influence over GM deepened after 
Treasury decided to fund GM™s bankruptcy 

and become the majority owner of New GM.  
With their leverage as the purchaser of GM™s 
assets in bankruptcy, 
Treasury™s Auto Team 
had significant influence on GM to make 
specific decisions that were in keeping with 
Treasury™s preferences.  One Auto Team 
official called Treasury™s leverage 
ﬁconsiderableﬂ because the alternative was 

ﬁcatastrophic,ﬂ adding that he meant 
liquidation.  GM™s then-chief financial officer 
(ﬁCFOﬂ) Ray Young told SIGTARP, ﬁWe put 

forward recommendations, but at the end of 
the day, the purchaser [Treasury] makes the 
final decision.ﬂ  An Auto Team official stated, 

ﬁit is my understanding that as the buyer, we 
get to determine which assets are, you know, 
assets we would buy and 
which liabilitiesﬂ we 
would take on.  Treasury used its significant 
financial leverage to get GM to reach 
agreement with the two stakeholders that 

Treasury believed could hold up GM™s 
bankruptcy Œ the bondholders and the 
International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement 
Workers of America (ﬁUAWﬂ).   
 
Treasury™s requirement in the December 
2008 TARP loan agreement that GM reach a 
new deal with the UAW, Treasury™s 

conditioning TARP f
unds on a 40-day quick-
rinse bankruptcy, and UAW™s leverage to 
stall the bankruptcy or strike pressured GM 

on ﬁgetting the deal doneﬂ with the UAW and 
resulted in New GM taking on the liability to top up the pensions of UAW™s members who 

had worked at Delphi at the time of its 1999 
spinoff from GM, increasing their pension 
benefit payments to their full benefit level.  
The Auto Team made it clear to GM that they 
wanted an agreement with the UAW prior to 

bankruptcy (which had to be before a 
June 1, 2009, bond payment due date) and 
the Auto Team actively negotiated and made 

the overall deal.  The UAW understood that 
GM could not walk away from the May 18-19 
negotiations and had to reach an agreement 

to be able to survive, and those same facts 
put pressure on GM.  GM only had a couple 
of weeks to come to agreement with the 

UAW, and if they did not come to agreement, 
GM risked the UAW objecting to and 
prolonging the bankruptcy beyond 40 days, 

which GM believed would lead to liquidation.  
The UAW came to the negotiations with a ﬁhit 
listﬂ of priority items including the top-up.  

The top-ups were never discussed in the 
negotiations.   
 The Auto Team™s role in the decision to top 
up the pensions of Delphi™s UAW workers 

was not advisory.  Consistent with the Auto 
Team™s practice, it would have been 
Treasury™s decision as the buyer to assume 

or reject the top-up liability.  Although the top-
up was previously a separate written 
agreement, the top-up was now included as 

one of the obligations in the overall new 
collective bargaining agreement with the 
UAW, which was included in the Master Sale 

and Purchase Agreement selling assets to 
New GM.  GM could not decide on its own to 
agree to the new collective bargaining 

agreement that included the top-up because 
Treasury™s consent was required under the 
TARP loan agreement and Treasury was the 

purchaser in bankruptcy.  The decision that 
 Treasury™s Role in the Decision for GM To Provide Pension Payments to Delphi Employees  SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
New GM would honor the top-up was a joint 
decision by Treasury and GM with Treasury 
deciding to approve the UAW collective 

bargaining agreement with the top-up. 
 Even though the top-up was never discussed 

in the negotiations with the UAW, it became 
a foregone conclusion that it would be 
included in the new UAW agreement.  Auto 

Team leader Rattner told SIGTARP that GM 
had the option of honoring or not honoring 
the top-up, but GM needed UAW workers 

and UAW™s consent was necessary for the 
bankruptcy.  Auto Team leader Rattner and 
another Auto Team official told SIGTARP 
that, because the UAW included it on their 
list, it was clear that 
the UAW expected the 
top-up to be part of the overall deal.  
Treasury had the power to object to New GM 
taking on the top-up obligation as part of the 

larger UAW agreement, but had no desire to 
blow up the larger deal.  Although the Auto 
Team was concerned about the threat of a 

strike, they were also concerned with the 
UAW prolonging the bankruptcy, calling not having an agreement like 
ﬁshooting yourself 
in the head.ﬂ  Auto Team leader Rattner told 
SIGTARP that getting more on pensions 
ﬁwas a game of chicken we didn™t want to 

play.  We were under incredible time 
pressure,ﬂ adding ﬁit was not a ridiculous 
request, and one that we could have honored 

and needed to honor.ﬂ  CEO Henderson told 
SIGTARP that the pressure to finish the 
negotiations resulted in no negotiation of the 
top-up, ﬁthe focus was on getting the deal 
done,ﬂ and that if the top-up was not 

assumed, ﬁit would have been ‚mission 
impossible.™ﬂ 
 
Treasury™s Auto Team and GM did not agree 
to top up the pensions of other former GM 
employees at Delphi, which did not have 

active employees at GM, and therefore had 
no leverage to hold up GM™s bankruptcy.  
This included Delphi employees who were 

paid a salary and employees who were paid 
an hourly wage who were members of the 
International Union of Electronic, Electrical, 

Salaried, Machine and Furniture Workers 
(ﬁIUEﬂ) and the United Steelworkers of 
America (ﬁUSWﬂ).  Although in GM™s 

bankruptcy New GM did not assume the 
other top-up agreements with Delphi IUE and 
USW employees because those unions did 
not have leverage, subsequently New GM 

agreed to top up the smaller unions because 
of the leverage those unions had to prolong 
Delphi™s bankruptcy or strike, which GM 

believed would significantly impact its ability 
to survive. 
 
 Lessons Learned  
GM did not fail and the broader systemic 
consequences of a GM failure that Treasury 
feared were avoided.  There are two 

important lessons to be learned from the role 
that Treasury played. 
 
First, the Auto Team™s deep involvement and 
significant influence on GM™s decisions 
leading up to and through GM™s bankruptcy 

led to expectations that Treasury would not 
act as a private investor, but as the 
Government.  The Pension Benefit Guaranty 

Corporation (ﬁPBGCﬂ), a Government-backed 
insurer of pensions, had an expectation that 
decisions on what obligations GM would take 
on related to the Delphi pensions would 
proceed differently 
than what might have 
normally occurred, and could potentially have 
saved PBGC billions of do
llars with Treasury 
involved.  Also contributing to this 

expectation was the fact that the Auto Team 
negotiated with PBGC on behalf of GM 
related to what GM would pay on the 

pensions.  Delphi and 
its workers, who had 
been former GM employees, also had the 
expectation that the Government would 

ensure that GM treat the pensions of all 
former GM employees at Delphi the same 
out of fairness.  Also contributing to this 

expectation was the fact that TARP funds 
were being used, and that GM had taken the 
position with Delphi (and PBGC) that taking 

on additional pension obligations violated the 
TARP loan agreement and required 
Treasury™s consent.  A PBGC document 
stated that Delphi believed GM may be 
looking to the ﬁcar czarﬂ to mandate that GM 

assume Delphi pensions as part of GM™s use 
of TARP funds.  One former Delphi salaried 
employee told SIGTARP that Treasury 

ﬁcannot throw off the mantle of Government 
 Treasury™s Role in the Decision for GM To Provide Pension Payments to Delphi Employees  SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
and make themselves into a commercial 
enterpriseﬂ and ﬁit is wrong of our 
Government to take funds from everyone and 

give it to the few.ﬂ  However, Auto Team 
officials attempted to view top-ups as a 
private investor with one Auto Team official 

telling SIGTARP that the Government could 
not make everyone whol
e, saying, ﬁI don™t 
think that anybody thinks bankruptcy is fair.ﬂ 

 Treasury™s Auto Team did not always act as 
a private investor and at times acted as the 

Government to prevent GM from failing, 
concerned about financial stability in the auto 
industry.  Although the Auto Team tried to 
view issues through a ﬁcommercially 
reasonableﬂ lens like a private investor, they 

often did not act as a private investor, nor 
should they have.  Without policies or 
procedures to define commercial 

reasonableness, Treasury used commercial 
reasonableness as a justification for all of its 
actions, even when those actions were 

based on other concerns.  For example, 
Treasury decided not to move GM™s 
headquarters to save costs out of concerns 

over the impact on the city of Detroit.  
Treasury made other decisions based on 
broader concerns about the 

interconnectedness of the auto industry.  No 
private investor holds the responsibility 
Treasury has to protect taxpayers and to 

promote financial stability in the economy.  Treasury made the TARP injections in GM 
when no other private investor would lend or 
invest the money that GM needed, according 
to GM™s then CFO.  Concerned about too 

much debt on GM™s balance sheet, Treasury 
funded GM™s bankruptcy and converted what 
would be higher priority TARP debt to a lower 

priority equity ownership in New GM and, 
according to GM, paid more than GM™s 
ﬁEnterprise Value.ﬂ  Treasury™s Auto Team 

took these actions based on concerns of the 
consequences of a GM failure on other 
companies in the American automotive 

industry, concerns not held by private 
investors.  Even though the Auto Team tried 
to act as a private investor, they had 

considerations that no private investor would 
ever have had, blurring the lines between 
Treasury™s role as the investor and as the 

Government. 
Second, the additional leverage Treasury 
gave to certain stakehol
ders, such as the 
UAW, contributed to crit
icism of the disparate 
treatment between Delphi salaried and union 
employees.  One Auto Team official told 
SIGTARP that the strength of the negotiating 
parties was dictated by the leverage they 
held, but SIGTARP found that additional 
leverage was given by Treasury.  The Auto 

Team established a hierarchy of importance 
of stakeholders and issues that Auto Team 
officials believed had to be completed prior to 

GM™s bankruptcy filing to ensure a successful 
quick-rinse bankruptcy that would be 
completed in 40 days.  Treasury did not view 
the non-UAW Delphi hourly employees or the 
Delphi salaried employees as having 

leverage because they
 did not have current 
employees at GM and therefore could not 
hold up GM™s bankruptcy. 

 Two liabilities that the Auto Team had already decided to assume in bankruptcy 

were new agreements with the UAW and 
bondholders.  The UAW had leverage 
because it knew and understood from 

Treasury that it was committed to reorganize 
GM and not let GM fail.  Treasury™s 40-day 
bankruptcy condition gave the UAW and 

bondholders additional leverage to threaten 
to hold up GM™s bankruptcy.  They may have 
been able to obtain more concessions than in 

a traditional bankruptcy where the issues 
may be litigated.  An Auto Team official told 
SIGTARP, ﬁWe had to negotiate a deal that 
the UAW and bondholders would accept.ﬂ  
With Treasury™s dictate of a 40-day 

bankruptcy and no indication that Treasury 
would extend that timeframe, GM officials 
were under pressure, believing they had to 

reach agreements with the bondholders and 
UAW prior to bankruptcy or risk losing 
Treasury™s funding and liquidating. 

 It is very difficult for Treasury to act as only a 
private investor and still fulfill its greater 

governmental responsib
ilities.  Treasury 
entered the TARP investments as the 
Government, and must continue to act as the 

Government the whole time it holds these 
investments, protecting taxpayers™ 
investment and fulfilling Treasury™s 
responsibility to promote financial stability in 
 Treasury™s Role in the Decision for GM To Provide Pension Payments to Delphi Employees  SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
the economy.  An important lesson 
Government officials should learn from the 
Government™s unprecedented TARP 

intervention into private companies is that the 
actions and decisions taken must represent 
the overarching responsibilities the 

Government owes to the American public.   
  What SIGTARP Recommended 
 SIGTARP makes no recommendations in this 
report.  Although Treasury remains invested 

in GM, and TARP™s Automotive Industry 
Financing Program is ongoing, the subject 
matter of this report concerns specific actions 
taken by Treasury™s Auto Team during 2008 
and 2009 that are unlikely to occur again 

because the Auto Team disbanded.   
 Treasury provided an official written 

response, which is re
produced in full in Appendix D.  A discussion of this response 
and SIGTARP™s response can be found in 

the Management Comments and SIGTARP™s 
Response section of this report. 
 
   
   
     
   
     Treasury™s Role in the Decision for GM To Provide Pension Payments to Delphi Employees  SIGTARP 13-003  August 15, 2013 
 Table of Contents 
 Introduction ................................................................................................................................................. 1Background ................................................................................................................................................. 4Treasury Plans for GM™s Bankruptcy, Replaces GM
™s CEO, and Rejects GM™s Restructuring Plan ..........................................................................................................................
................................ 7Treasury™s Auto Team Replaces GM™s CEO ........................................................................................
...... 8Treasury™s Auto Team Rejects 
GM™s Restructuring Plan ..........................................................................
 9Treasury™s Auto Team and GM Devel
op a New GM Restructuring Plan ................................................ 11
Cutting Costs Related to Delphi ...............................................................................................
................ 13Cutting Pension Costs .........................................................................................................
...................... 13Treasury™s Role in the Decision for GM To File Bankruptcy .................................................................. 16
Treasury Agreed To Fund GM™s Bankruptcy with $30.1 Billion from TARP, but Only for 
40 Days .......................................................................................................................
........................... 18ﬁCherry-pickingﬂ Assets and Liabilities .......................................................................................
............ 19Deals with Major Stakeholders Before Bankruptcy ...............................................................................
.. 20Treasury™s Role in Pre-Bankruptcy 
Deal with GM™s Bondholders .......................................................... 21
Treasury™s Role in Pre-Bankruptcy Deal with
 UAW, Which Included New GM Assuming the 
Top-Up of Pensions ............................................................................................................
................... 22GM Completes Bankruptcy in 40 Days Without
 Agreeing To Top Up Any Other Delphi 
Employee ......................................................................................................................
......................... 27Delphi Salaried Retirees ......................................................................................................
..................... 27Delphi Hourly Employees Represented by Smaller Unions ..................................................................... 30
Conclusion ....................................................................................................................
............................ 33Management Comments and SIGTARP™s Response ................................................................................ 42
Appendix A Œ Objectives, Scope, and Methodology ...............................................................................
. 43Appendix B Œ Acronyms and Abbreviations .......................................................................................
..... 45Appendix C Œ Audit Team Members ...............................................................................................
......... 46Appendix D Œ Management Comments ..............................................................................................
...... 47  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
1   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Introduction  General Motors Corporation™s (ﬁGMﬂ) bankruptcy was one of the largest and 
fastest bankruptcies in our nation™s history.  Having already invested $19.4 billion in GM under two Administrations thr
ough the Troubled Asset Relief Program 
(ﬁTARPﬂ), in June of 2009, the U.S. Department of the Treasury (ﬁTreasuryﬂ) 

loaned GM an additional $30.1 billion from TARP to fund GM™s bankruptcy, and 
conditioned the money on the bankruptcy e
nding in 40 days.  In exchange for its combined $49.5 billion TARP investment
, Treasury would become the majority 
(61%) owner of a new company that 
would emerge from GM™s bankruptcy 
(ﬁNew GMﬂ), purchasing substantially all of GM™s assets, and leaving behind many of its liabilities with the old comp
any (ﬁOld GMﬂ).  One of the liabilities that New GM agreed to honor related to the pensions of certain former GM 
employees who had worked in its automob
ile parts division Delphi Corporation (ﬁDelphiﬂ), when GM spun off Delphi into an independent company in 1999.  The 
agreement ran to Delphi employees who 
were paid an hourly wage (an ﬁhourly employeeﬂ) and were represented by certain
 unions.  Delphi employees who were 
paid a salary (a ﬁsalaried employeeﬂ) di
d not have an agreement for GM to pay 
anything toward their pensions after the 1999 spinoff.  Delphi, which was GM™s largest supplier of parts, had been in bankruptcy since 2005 and did not have enough money to fund its pensions.    
 With the first TARP injection in GM
, Treasury assigned responsibility for 
overseeing GM™s restructuring to a ﬁPresi
dent™s Designeeﬂ that was later formed, 
in February 2009 Œ the Presidential Task 
Force on the Auto Industry (ﬁAuto Task Forceﬂ), which delegated  the responsibil
ity for GM™s restructuring to a group of 
Treasury officials known as the Auto Team 
(ﬁAuto Teamﬂ).  The existence of the 
Auto Team and the role they would 
play with GM and Chrysler Group LLC 
(ﬁChryslerﬂ) sharply contrasted with the role played by Treasury officials under other TARP programs.  The auto bail
out was the only TARP program with a 
President™s Designee responsible for the restructuring of the TARP recipient.  Auto Team officials would play a direct 
role in the decisions and operations of GM until the Auto Team disbanded in
 the summer of 2009, soon after both 
automakers™ bankruptcies.  

 
Senator Roger Wicker and Congressman 
John Boehner sent a letter to the Government Accountability Office (ﬁGAOﬂ) re
questing a review of five questions related to the decision that GM would top up pension payments for Delphi hourly 
employees beyond what the Pension Benef
it Guaranty Corporation (ﬁPBGCﬂ), a 
Government-backed insurer of pensions, 
would pay if the pension plans were terminated, but not top up pension paymen
ts for Delphi salaried employees and 
related to PBGC™s termination of the 
Delphi pensions.  Former Congressman 
Christopher J. Lee also requested that SIGTARP work with GAO and that SIGTARP issue a separate report from 
GAO on one of the five questions.  Congressman Michael R. Turner also re
quested that SIGTARP conduct a similar 
review after Congressman Lee left 
office.  GAO and SIGTARP coordinated, 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
2   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
dividing the work into two parts that 
each office would address.  GAO reviewed PBGC™s termination of Delphi™s hourly
 and salaried pension plans and other PBGC issues.  To avoid duplicating GAO™s work, SIGTARP did not review 
PBGC™s decisions.  The objectives of SIGTARP™s audit were to determine: 
  Treasury™s role in the decision for GM to
 top up (pay the full cost of pensions less any PBGC payout) the pension plan; and 
 whether the Administration 
or the Auto Task Force pressured GM to provide additional funding for the plan.  
 In December 2011, GAO issued a report that
 included the statement, ﬁGM and 
Treasury officials stated that Treasury™
s role was advisory concerning GM™s 
decisions not to take on additional Delphi
 pension liabilities but to honor the top-up agreements with some unions.ﬂ
1  A GAO official subsequently testified before 
Congress in July 2012, that ﬁthe court filings, Treasury officials, PBGC officials, GM officials stated that Tr
easury only played an advisory role.  I would note, however, in conducting our work, we coordinated with SIGTARP, and our report focused on a broad range of things, including PBGC issues, the events leading to 
the termination in Treasury™s role.  But 
we did not conduct an investigation, as SIGTARP is doing, and we did not interv
iew the former [Treasury Auto Team] 
officials here today.ﬂ2  
SIGTARP conducted the audit from December 2010 through August 2013, in 

accordance with generally accepted government
 auditing standards as prescribed 
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
3   SIGTARP™s work was 
significantly prolonged by the refusal of four key former Treasury Auto Team 
officials working on GM™s restructuring to be interviewed by SIGTARP.4  In July 2012, Congress held a hearing on the former Treasury officials™ refusals to be 
interviewed.  In the weeks prior to the hearing, the leader of the Auto Team, 
Steven Rattner, agreed to be interviewed by SIGTARP.  At the Congressional hearing, SIGTARP learned for the first time 
that the other three former Treasury 
officials Œ Ron Bloom, Harry Wilson, a
nd Matthew Feldman Œ had told Congress 
                                                 1 GAO-12-168, ﬁGM Agreements with Unions Give Rise to Un
ique Differences in Particip
ant Benefits,ﬂ 12/15/2011.
 2 Hearing before the Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs of the 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 7/10/2012.
 3 For a discussion of the audit™s scope and methodology, see Appendix A. 
4 Three former Treasury Auto Team officials all include 
their roles in GM™s restructuring in their professional 
biographies.  Ron Bloom™s biography stat
es that ﬁhe helped lead the restructur
ing of GM and Chrysler, and then led 
Treasury™s oversight of the comp
anies thereafter.ﬂ  Harry Wilson™s biography st
ates that ﬁhe worked as one of the four 
leaders of the Auto Task Force, responsible for the Treas
ury™s role in the restructuring of GM and Chrysler.  
Mr. Wilson led a team that was responsi
ble for the business and financial work 
of the Task Force and also led a team 
overseeing the financial and operational restructuring of GM
, the largest in American hi
story.ﬂ  Matthew Feldman™s 
biography states that he served as Chief Legal Advisor to the Auto Task Force ﬁassembled to help develop the overall 
strategy to restructure and recapitalize General Motors Corporation and Chrysler LLC, a strategy which resulted in the 
groundbreaking legal proceedings that implemented a comprehensive financial solution for both companies.  The Auto 

Team conducted complex negotiations with all major constitu
ents of both companies, in
cluding Fiat SpA (which now 
runs Chrysler), the United Auto Workers and major credito
rs of both auto makers under a compressed timeline.ﬂ 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
3   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
that they would agree to 
a SIGTARP interview.  Those interviews served as a 
turning point in SIGTARP™s work because SIGTARP could not fully determine 

Treasury™s role without interviewing the Treasury officials involved.  The former 

Treasury officials made it clear to SI
GTARP that the decisions made and 
Treasury™s role related to Delphi pensions had to be viewed in the broader context of GM™s restructuring, which is what this report covers.  SIGTARP makes no 
recommendations in this report.  Alt
hough Treasury remains invested in GM, and 
TARP™s Automotive Industry Financing 
Program is ongoing, the subject matter of 
this report concerns specific actions taken by Treasury™s Auto Team during 2008 
and 2009 that are unlikely to occur again because the Auto Team disbanded.   
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
4   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Background  According to testimony from Auto Team 
official Ron Bloom, in 2008, the U.S. 
auto industry lost 50% of its sales volume and over 400,000 jobs.  Ray Young, 
GM executive vice president and chief financial officer (ﬁCFOﬂ) in 2008 and 2009, told SIGTARP that in March 2008 GM started looking to identify sources 

of financing.  Young told SIGTARP that by late 2008, it became clear that there 

was no source of financing and no parties were interested in inve
sting in GM.  In November 2008, GM sought Government financial support.  In December 2008, 

Treasury, under the Bush Administ
ration, announced TARP™s Automotive 
Industry Financing Program with the 
stated goal to prevent a significant disruption to the American automotive industr
y that would pose a systemic risk to financial market stability and have a 
negative effect on the U.S. economy.  
 
On December 31, 2008, Treasury provided 
$13.4 billion in TARP funds in a 
TARP loan to GM through the Automo
tive Industry Financing Program, and on 
January 2, 2009, Treasury provided $4 billion to Chrysler.  Treasury™s Loan and 
Security Agreement (ﬁTARP loan agreem
entﬂ) required GM and Chrysler to each 
submit by February 17, 2009, for review
 and approval by the President™s Designee a restructuring plan showing how they would use the TARP funds to achieve ﬁlong-term viability,ﬂ which was 
defined as ﬁpositive net present value, 
taking into account all current and future costs, and can fully repay the government loan.ﬂ   

 
In summary, the TARP loan agreement w
ith GM also laid out three conditions that needed to be met for GM to achieve
 and sustain long-term viability and that 
needed to be approved by Treasury by March 31, 2009:  (1) GM was required to 
establish an agreement with the In
ternational Union, United Automobile, 
Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (ﬁUAWﬂ), which 

represented nearly all of GM™s union employees, as well as an estimated 500,000 
retirees, that would include reduced labor costs; (2) as part of the new agreement 
with the UAW, the UAW would agree that
 at least 50% of the approximately 
$20 billion obligation GM had to the UAW 
retiree health care trust, called the Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Associa
tion plan (ﬁVEBAﬂ), had to be funded with GM stock; and (3) GM would commence a voluntary offer to have its 
bondholders who held approximately $27 billio
n in debt exchange their debt for GM stock.  President George W. Bush sa
id that ensuring viability would require ﬁmeaningful concessions from all invo
lved in the automotive industry.ﬂ   
 On February 15, 2009, President Barack Obama convened the Auto Task Force 
and named Treasury Secretary Timot
hy F. Geithner and National Economic 
Council Director Dr. Lawrence Summers to serve as co-chairs.
5  Treasury created 
the Auto Team and the Auto Task Force delegated to it the responsibility of 

evaluating the auto companies™ restruct
uring plans and negotiating the terms of 
                                                 5 The Auto Task Force had 21 members including several cabi
net-level officials from acro
ss the Executive Branch.   
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
5   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
any further assistance.  Leading the Auto
 Team was Steven Rattner, co-founder of 
Quadrangle Group, a private equity firm. 
 Ron Bloom, a former investment 
banker and former head of collective bargaining for the United Steelworkers of 

America (ﬁUSWﬂ), served as his deputy and 
then the head of the Auto Team after 
Mr. Rattner left Treasury in July 2009.  With a staff of 15 people, the other key 
members of the Auto Team who worked 
on GM™s restructuring with Mr. Rattner and Mr. Bloom included Matthew Feldma
n, who told SIGTARP that he was brought in to be the bankruptcy lawyer for Treasury, and Harry Wilson, a former 
member of the hedge fund management fi
rm Silver Point Capital.  Mr. Bloom 
told SIGTARP that Dr. Summers and Secr
etary Geithner gave the Auto Team a 
fair amount of authority, but major decisi
ons went to Dr. Summers and Secretary Geithner.6  
These Auto Team officials told SIGTARP that they were directed by Treasury 

and the Administration to act in a ﬁcom
mercially reasonableﬂ manner.  There 
were no policies and procedures defining commercially reasonable; it was subject 
to interpretation.
7  Auto Team leader Rattner told SIGTARP that he interpreted 
the commercially reasonable approach as 
ﬁif we would be doing this in the private sector and spending money on it.ﬂ  Auto 
Team official Wilson testified in a 
deposition that ﬁour test had to be what a commercial buyer would doﬂ adding, 
ﬁWe had a fiduciary duty to use taxpayer 
dollars in the most appropriate way.ﬂ  
Auto Team official Bloom told SIGTARP 
that he interpreted the commercially 
reasonable approach as a way to ﬁminimi
ze taxpayer investment consistent with 
getting the job done and creating a viable enterprise.ﬂ   
Treasury™s definition of long-term viabil
ity focused on GM repaying taxpayers.  Auto Team officials Harry Wilson and Matthew Feldman told SIGTARP that they 
each believed it would take five years for GM to repay TARP.  Auto Team leader 

Rattner told SIGTARP that the Auto Team
 spent a lot of time on this issue with 
Dr. Summers who wanted to exit as soon as possible.  Auto Team Leader Rattner 

said the Auto Team did not know what that
 actually meant, but that it generally 
would take five to eight years to divest when a government takes a position.  
Former Secretary Geithner told SIGTARP th
at Treasury could not have a plan for how long it would own GM stock.  More than four years later, GM has not fully 
repaid taxpayers and remains in TARP.
8  GM™s restructuring plan, submitted to Treas
ury in February 2009, did not plan for 
bankruptcy; instead it detailed the risks 
GM would face if it filed bankruptcy.  
GM™s plan identified eight ﬁkey risks.ﬂ  
One risk was that Delphi, GM™s former 
                                                 6 When asked what authority was designated to the Auto Team
 related to GM™s restructuring and what remained with 
Dr. Summers and him, Secretary Geithner told SIGTARP that he and Dr. Summers would sign off on consequential 

strategic decisions.  Mr. Rattner told SIGTARP that he me
t with Dr. Summers and Secret
ary Geithner regularly, but he 
had little interaction or communication with 
the rest of the Auto Task Force.   
7 There were generally defined principles in a report from
 the Administration for GM to achieve greater profitability, 
strengthen its balance sheet, increase its compe
titiveness, and develop fuel-efficient cars.   
8 As of June 13, 2013, there is $9.87 billion outstanding on
 Treasury™s TARP investment in GM.  For that, Treasury 
owns 13.8% of GM common stock. 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
6   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
subsidiary and largest parts supplier, which had been in bankruptcy since 2005, had been unable to raise financing to exit bankruptcy and had underfunded the pension plans of employees who had worked
 at Delphi when it was part of GM.9  GM™s restructuring plan stated, ﬁIf Delphi is unsuccessful in addressing its underfunded pension plans and raising exit financing, it would represent a significant risk to the Company™s revised plan.ﬂ 
 
Prior to Delphi™s spinoff in 1999, all of its employees were covered by GM™s 
pension plans, but GM had funded these pension plans at different levels.  At the time of the spinoff, GM had fully f
unded (at 123%) the expected payments 
needed to cover the pension plan of Delphi salaried employees, but had 

underfunded (at 69%) the pension plan of Delphi hourly employees.  In 1999, 
Delphi™s three largest unions representing hourly employees negotiated pension 
benefit guarantees that, if Delphi could not fund its pensions, GM would ﬁtop up,ﬂ or increase, pension benefit payments of
 the unions™ hourly retirees to their full benefit levels under certain conditions (called ﬁpension benefit guarantees,ﬂ or ﬁtop-up agreementsﬂ).  The three unions we
re the UAW, the International Union 
of Electronic, Electrical, Salaried, Machine and Furniture Workers (ﬁIUEﬂ),
10 and the USW.
11  At the time, Delphi™s salaried 
employees were not represented by a 
union or organized as a group or association, and they did not negotiate or receive top-up agreements.
12  
 
                                                   9 Delphi was GM™s largest supplier of automotive systems, components, and parts, and GM was Delphi™s largest 
customer with annual purchases that ranged from approxim
ately $6.5 billion to $10.2 billion from 2005 through 2008.  
The purpose of the spinoff, 
according to GM and Delphi executives, was to enable Delphi to establish a more 
competitive labor cost structure and to allow Delphi to manufacture and sell parts to other automakers.   
10 Effective October 1, 2000, the International Union of 
Electronic Workers merged w
ith Communication Workers of 
America (ﬁCWAﬂ), becoming the 
IUE-CWA Industrial Division. 
11 When Delphi was spun off, unions represented about 95% of all Delphi hourly employees.  The largest Delphi union 
in the U.S. was UAW, which represented roughly 72% of the hourly workforce.  The other large unions were IUE and 
USW, which represented 24% and 4% of Delphi™s unionized hourly workforce in the U.S., respectively.  GM entered 
into a memorandum of understanding to extend the agreements with each of the unions Œ UAW, IUE, and USW Œ 
when they were set to expire in 2007.  Through the memorandum of understanding, GM agreed effectively to extend 

the benefit guarantees indefinitely.   
12 Despite the fact that GM had fully funded the salaried pension plans when it spun off Delphi in 1999, by 2001, funding 
levels for both salaried and hourly pension plans were below 100%.  From 2001 to 2005, Delphi suffered losses and 

the company filed for bankruptcy in October 2005.  According to Delphi officials interviewed by SIGTARP, Delphi 
remained committed to funding the hourly and salaried pe
nsion plans in the early stag
es of Delphi™s bankruptcy 
process between 2005 and 2007 and tried to preserve the plans.  However, with the economic downturn in 2008, 

Delphi struggled to maintain the pension plans.  According to
 the Delphi officials, variou
s investors expressed interest 
in Delphi, but none wanted to purchase or invest in Delphi if it retained its pension liabilities.   
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
7   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Treasury Plans for GM™s Bankruptcy, Replaces 

GM™s CEO, and Rejects GM™s Restructuring Plan 
 On February 17, 2009, the day they receive
d GM™s restructuring plan, the Auto Team sent a memo to Auto Task Fo
rce chairs Dr. Summers and Secretary 
Geithner with ﬁfirst-blush impressionsﬂ 
of the auto companies™ restructuring 
plans.  As for GM, the memo listed four 
risks:  (1) underfunding of pension plans; (2) foreign subsidiaries; (3) ﬁGM™s plan includes funding to purchase certain Delphi assets, but Delphi will require ot
her funding to exit bankruptcy, address its 
pension liabilities and continue operations,ﬂ and the ﬁfailure of Delphi to reorganize successfully will jeopardize GM™s
 restructuring planﬂ; and (4) GM™s 
plan to reduce its dealer ba
se versus foreign automake
rs™ dealer bases in North 
America.  Secretary Geithner told SIGTAR
P that he had no recollection of costs related to Delphi or Delphi pension top-
up issues and that the Auto Team could work through Delphi issues on its own.  Auto Team leader Rattner told SIGTARP 
that there were no significant meetin
gs between him and Dr. Summers or 
Secretary Geithner related 
to the Delphi pensions.13   
Before and after GM submitted its restructuring plan in mid-February 2009, 

Treasury™s Auto Team was assessing the n
eed for GM to file bankruptcy.  In his 
book Overhaul: An Insider™s Account of the Obama Administration™s Emergency 
Rescue of the Auto Industry (ﬁOverhaulﬂ), Mr. Rattner stated
 that he thought bankruptcy was inevitable in December 
2008, before he formally started at Treasury.  Mr. Rattner stated in 
Overhaul that negotiations with unions, debt holders, and others to meet the conditions in the TARP loan agreement had 
ﬁabsolutely no chance of success.ﬂ  Intern
al Treasury documents indicate that most of the restructuring options under consideration by the Auto Team in 
February 2009 involved some form of 
bankruptcy.  A February 2009 analysis conducted for the Auto Team by their financ
ial consultant indicated that an out-of-court settlement had a low chance of 
success and that a prearranged bankruptcy had a moderate to high chance of success.   

 
In his book Overhaul, Auto Team leader Rattner 
described briefing Secretary Geithner on February 11, 2009, on restructuring options, nearly all of which included bankruptcy.  He recounted that
 Secretary Geithner thought bankruptcy was probably inevitable and said, ﬁWe need to put foam on the runway.ﬂ  An 
Auto Team official also told SIGTAR
P that when he started at Treasury, Secretary Geithner said the 
team should look at their role as laying ﬁfoam on the 
runwayﬂ during this tumultuous time, which 
the Auto Team official interpreted as 
looking for ways to soften the blow in the event of bankruptcy.  Auto Team official Feldman, a bankruptcy lawyer
 who had key responsibility for GM bankruptcy planning, told SIGTARP, ﬁBy the end of February and beginning of                                                  13 An internal Treasury briefing agenda for a July 7, 200
9, meeting with Dr. Summers 
and Secretary Geithner says 
ﬁPBGC/pension,ﬂ but Mr. Rattner did not 
recall the briefing.  Secretary Geithne
r told SIGTARP he did not recall any 
discussions or briefings related to Delphi pensions. 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
8   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
March, I didn™t know how GM would do in
 bankruptcy but couldn™t see forward without bankruptcy.ﬂ   
 
The Auto Team worked independent of
 GM to prepare for a GM bankruptcy under Section 363 of the bankruptcy code.  An Auto Team official testified in a 
deposition that 363 was selected because of speed, certainty, and the ability to leave behind liabilities that a commer
cial buyer would not want in the new 
company.  Auto Team leader Ra
ttner described the 363 sale in Overhaul as ﬁthe fastest possible bankruptcy,ﬂ but he stated that they thought it would still take 6 to 15 months.  Auto Team leader Rattner wrote in 
Overhaul
 that in March 2009, Auto Team official Feldman made a 
critical discovery to shorten GM™s bankruptcy.  Feldman determined that th
e ﬁmarketing periodﬂ 
typically used to identify potential asset purchasers in a 363 bankruptcy sale could be eliminated where there is only one source of financing available, which, in this instance, was 
the Government.   

 
Mr. Rattner recounted in Overhaul that on March 19, 2009, while planning for bankruptcy, the Auto Team discovered 
that GM had a $1 billion payment to 
bondholders coming due June 1, 2009, but if Treasury allowed GM to make the 

payment, it would be awarding 100 cents on the dollar to bondholders who were 

only entitled to pennies.14  Auto Team officials told SIGTARP that the upcoming 
payment would drive the date of GM™s 
bankruptcy.  Despite the Auto Team™s 
bankruptcy planning, then-GM president and chief operating officer (ﬁCOOﬂ) Frederick ﬁFritzﬂ Henderson told SIGTAR
P that bankruptcy was not discussed 
when GM met with Treasury in March 2009.   What followed was the Auto Team™s direct
 involvement in the decisions affecting 
GM.  Treasury™s Auto Team used their fina
ncial leverage as GM™s only lender to significantly influence the decisions GM 
made during the time period leading up 
to and through GM™s bankruptcy.  Treasury™s Auto Team
 Replaces GM™s CEO 
 It was increasingly clear to the Auto Team that GM, under the leadership of then-chief executive officer (ﬁCEOﬂ) Rick Wagoner, was unwilling to move toward 

bankruptcy.  CEO Wagoner had been vo
cally and adamantly opposed to putting 
GM into bankruptcy and had done little to no planning for the possibility of bankruptcy.  CEO Wagoner did not believe that the company could survive in 
bankruptcy because consumers would not purchase cars from an automaker in 

bankruptcy as there would be no guarantee that the company would be able to 
fulfill its long-term warranty obligations
.  CEO Wagoner believed that customers 
would view this as an unnecessary risk and avoid it by purchasing another                                                  14 Mr. Rattner stated in 
Overhaul
 that he told the 
Detroit Free Press
 that ﬁbankruptcy is not our goal,ﬂ while ﬁall the 
while we were preparing for it.ﬂ  That
 interview took place March 16, 2009.  
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
9   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
automaker™s automobiles.  He was concerne
d that a lack of c
onsumer confidence 
would hurt sales needed for the company to continue to exist.   

 
The Auto Team disagreed with Wagoner™s 
view and believed that bankruptcy was the only path remaining for GM to succeed.  On March 27, 2009, Auto Team 

leader Rattner called CEO Wagoner and 
GM then-president and COO Henderson to separate meetings.  Mr. Henderson told
 SIGTARP that he felt Mr. Rattner was 
interviewing him.  He was correct.  La
ter that day, at Mr. Rattner™s request, Wagoner resigned and Mr. Rattner asked Mr. Henderson to serve as CEO.  Henderson told SIGTARP that GM™s Board of Directors was upset by the replacement of Mr. Wagoner and felt that
 their authority to appoint the CEO had been usurped by Treasury.  Mr. Henderson described his appointment as CEO as 
a ﬁprincipal source of fr
ictionﬂ between the board and Treasury.  Mr. Henderson told SIGTARP that the Auto Team™s d
ecision to replace Mr. Wagoner with their selection sent a message to GM execu
tives and was an early indicator that Treasury, as the main investor in GM
, would have significant influence over GM™s decisions and operations.   
 Treasury™s Auto Team Rejects GM™s Restructuring Plan 
 Three days later, on March 30, 2009, Treasury rejected GM™s restructuring plan as not viable, stating in its Viability Determination Fact Sheet, ﬁTheir best chance 
at success may well require utilizing the 
bankruptcy code in a quick and surgical way.ﬂ  Treasury also stated in its Viability Determination that although GM had 
made meaningful progress 
in its turnaround plan over the last few years, the progress had been ﬁfar too slow.ﬂ  Treasury™s Viability Determination stated that 
the deadline had nearly passed for 
the three TARP-required conditions:  (1) establishing a new agreement with UA
W to reduce labor costs; (2) obtaining 
all necessary approvals for changes to the VEBA retiree health care trust, which 
included UAW™s approval; and (3) comme
ncing an offer to bondholders to exchange debt for equity.  The Auto Team viewed these conditions as a floor, not 
a ceiling.  Treasury also indicated other ﬁkey factorsﬂ for GM™s viability, such as reducing the number of brands and deal
erships, and reducing the cash cost of legacy liabilities, including employee pensions
 and health care costs.  These were 
key areas of focus for Treasury™s Auto Team.
15    Additionally, in its Viability
 Determination, Treasury stated that GM needed a 
ﬁsubstantially more aggressi
ve restructuring planﬂ to make GM viable, gave GM 
until June 1 to resubmit the plan, and gave
 GM an additional $6 billion in TARP 
funds Œ enough working capital to continue operations over the following 60 days.  GM™s then-CFO Young told SIGTARP that GM executives did not 

know how they would obtain the financing to restructure the company and they 
                                                 15 SIGTARP previously reported on the termination of deal
erships in its audit, ﬁFactors Affecting the Decisions of 
General Motors and Chrysler to Reduce their 
Dealership Networks,ﬂ 
released 7/19/2010. 
   TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
10   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
did not know how they could shed the liabilities required by the TARP loan agreement, calling the situation ﬁdire.ﬂ   

 
An Auto Team official told SIGTARP 
that broader economic considerations 
served as the catalyst for Treasury to offer GM the opportunity to develop a new restructuring plan.  The Auto Team offi
cial told SIGTARP that GM™s success or 
failure had ﬁbroader economic ramificati
ons.ﬂ  According to that member and 
other Auto Team officials, the Auto T
eam was concerned that GM™s collapse 
could have a cascading effect throughout the interconnected American automotive 
industry by causing automotive parts manufact
urers and auto dealerships to fail, which could then threaten the stabilit
y of American automakers during an 
economic crisis.  When announcing the additional TARP funds, President Obama 

stated, ﬁWe cannot, and must not, and we 
will not let our auto industry simply 
vanish.ﬂ   TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
11   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Treasury™s Auto Team and GM Develop a 

New GM Restructuring Plan  With only 60 days of funding from TARP
, GM developed a new restructuring plan with significant influence and leverage from Treasury™s Auto Team.  Treasury™s influence and leverage over GM went beyond Treasury™s rights under the TARP loan agreement.  Under the 
TARP loan agreement, Treasury had the 
right to approve or prohibit transactions
 over $100 million that were not in the 
ordinary course of GM™s business or any increase in 
pension obligations.  An Auto Team official stated in a 
deposition, ﬁObviously, under 100 million we 
didn™t have any say, and we didn™t have any ability to be asked for our consent or to stop it or do anything else.ﬂ  While 
this statement describes Treasury™s legal 
rights, SIGTARP found that Treasury™s Au
to Team had significant influence over GM™s decisions, even in the areas where Treasury™s consent was not required 

under the TARP loan agreement.  One GM official told SIGTARP, ﬁUltimately it 

was that GM is not in control.  
And GM is totally dependent.ﬂ    
Then-CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that the Auto Team was concerned about 
how to deleverage the company™s balance 
sheet, and that they wanted to start 
from ground zero and build GM back up, 
restructuring everything.  Then-CEO Henderson told SIGTARP, ﬁThe Auto Team from Day 1 looked at everything in 

detail.  The Auto Team was uncomfortable
 with the balance sheet.  Harry Wilson 
and the Auto Team were taking apart the 
plan step by step and rebuilding it step by step in Detroit.ﬂ   

 An Auto Team official told SIGTARP the Auto Team™s review was ﬁvery deep 
and very thorough.ﬂ  The same Auto Team 
official told SIGTARP that the Auto Team provided ﬁdirection not decisions.  We
 were skeptical on all decisions.  We 
had to approve the decisions, show us the data.ﬂ  The official told SIGTARP, ﬁIt wasn™t a fight.  It was a debate.  We 
didn™t involve ourselves in any day-to-day decisions.ﬂ  The Auto Team official to
ld SIGTARP that he would have a call every evening at 10 p.m. with GM™s then-CFO Young.  The Auto Team official 
told SIGTARP, ﬁThere was a feeling that 
the Auto Team had to carefully manage 
GM, which would have given away Treasury™s money without blinking.ﬂ  
Rather than merely providing advice, the Au
to Team used their leverage as GM™s 
largest lender to influence and set the para
meters for GM to make decisions.  An 
Auto Team official told SIGTARP that
 Treasury was GM™s largest lender and investor, GM™s ﬁonly lifeline.ﬂ  Another Auto Team official testified before 
Congress, ﬁWhile Treasury was closely involved in pressing GM management for 
the major changes needed to make the company profitable, we were very careful 

to never get involved in the specific decisions on plant closures, dealer closures, or the like.  We would agree with GM on 
the broad strokes, which was to create a world-class auto business, and the key components of th
at, and they would make 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
12   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
the detailed decisions that needed to be
 made to implement those broad strokes.ﬂ
16  As SIGTARP has previously reported, in its Dealership Audit,17 in response to the Auto Team™s rejection of GM™s restructuring plan and its explicit comment that 

GM™s ﬁpaceﬂ of dealership closings was t
oo slow and an obstacle to its viability, GM substantially accelerated its dealersh
ip termination timelines.  Instead of 
gradually reducing its network by approximately 300 dealerships per year through 
2014, as GM had proposed in the plan submitted to Treasury, GM responded to 

the Auto Team™s direction by terminati
ng the ability of 1,454 dealerships to 
acquire new GM vehicles and giving them until October 2010 to wind down 

operations.  Although the Auto Team did not tell GM which dealerships to close, GM made the decision to accelerate the dealership closings with significant 

Treasury influence.  
 
As an Auto Team official explained to 
SIGTARP, Treasury did not want to start running the company, but when dealing 
with taxpayer resources, ﬁWe, the 
Government, were ultimately holding th
at purse string,ﬂ and Treasury reserved the right to tell GM that th
ey would not back them.  Another Auto Team official 
told SIGTARP that there were no instances where the Auto Team ﬁcrammedﬂ a 

decision on GM, ﬁbut we were investing a lot of money, and we had the opportunity to disagree.ﬂ  This same Auto
 Team official told SIGTARP that the 
Auto Team did not impose ultimatums on GM
.  As this official told SIGTARP, 
ﬁGM realized that there was no ot
her available source of money.ﬂ  
 
An Auto Team official told SIGTARP th
at the Auto Team™s approach with GM 
was to ﬁpush themﬂ and to ﬁquestion them
.ﬂ  Another Auto Team official told 
SIGTARP the Auto Team ﬁpushed GM toward making the changes necessary to 
become a viable company.ﬂ  A GM official told SIGTARP, ﬁThey [the Auto 
Team] were pushing us to be tougher and take more significant actions other than 

what we would have done on our own vo
lition.ﬂ  When one Auto Team official 
was asked by SIGTARP how the Auto Team conveyed their preference or nudged 

GM to see things the way the Auto Team saw them, given that ultimately GM 

could do its own thing, the Auto Team official said, ﬁWell, they could, but then 
they couldn™t exist.  I mean, as I said
, as the lender we had a fair amount of 
leverage.ﬂ   
 
Then-CFO Young told SIGTARP that the 
Auto Team was ﬁbeing hard on GM 
and scrutinizing how much money GM n
eeded.ﬂ  Mr. Young told SIGTARP that the Auto Team ﬁwas persistently pressing GM executives to cut costs.ﬂ  An Auto 

Team official told SIGTARP, ﬁWe thought
 GM could be viable on its own if it could reduce costs and liabilities.ﬂ  Auto Team leader Rattner told SIGTARP that 
GM officials had been too generous in the past and the Auto Team had to dial 
                                                 16 Hearing before the Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs of the 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 7/10/2012. 
17 SIGTARP-10-008, ﬁFactors Affecting th
e Decisions of General Motors and Ch
rysler to Reduce their Dealership 
Networks,ﬂ 7/19/2010. 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
13   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
them back.  The Auto Team specifically
 pressed GM to be less generous in relation to Delphi and pensions.    Cutting Costs Related to Delphi  Auto Team leader Rattner told SIGTARP 
that Delphi was an example of where 
the Auto Team was less generous than GM
.  According to one of the Auto Team 
members, Messrs. Matt Feldman and Ha
rry Wilson took the lead on Delphi 
issues.  Mr. Wilson testified befo
re Congress, ﬁDelphi was bleeding approximately $150 million in cash per month.  GM was supporting Delphi 

because Delphi was the sole supplier for certain critical GM parts, so a Delphi 
liquidation would have shut down all of General Motors.  This was an unsustainable proposition, both for GM, and for the American taxpayer.ﬂ  Mr. 
Wilson™s view, according to an email he 
wrote, was that they would look to 
eliminate all obligations, given the 
staggering cost of supporting Delphi.  
A GM official told SIGTARP the Auto 
Team™s reaction was that Delphi was 
costly to GM, and that GM should not be assuming more liabilities than 
necessary.  That same GM official told 
SIGTARP, ﬁWe did not have the leverage 
to tell them to pound sand.ﬂ  For exampl
e, in March 2009, Delphi wanted an additional $150 million from GM for ope
rating costs and for GM to purchase Delphi™s global steering business.  
Because this was above the $100 million 
threshold, Treasury™s consent was required under the TARP loan agreement.  The 

Auto Team did not consent.  An Auto T
eam official told SIGTARP that Delphi 
was identified as a risk, but that ﬁobviously we would continue to urge GM, you know, don™t be irresponsible about it, be tough.  Give as little as you have to, but try to help get Delphi done–you can™t write a blank check.ﬂ  Auto Team leader 
Rattner told SIGTARP that GM would ha
ve continued to squander a huge amount 
of dollars on Delphi. 
 Cutting Pension Costs  
 According to Auto Team leader Rattner, pensions were another area where the Auto Team ﬁencouragedﬂ GM 
to cut costs.  GM had a pay-as-you-go pension plan for salaried employees that was not 
funded and GM salaried employees and 
retirees wanted their full pensions, but Mr. Rattner told SIGTARP that the Auto 
Team wanted cuts to those benefits.   

 
In addition to pension issues relating to GM employees, between February and 
May 2009, GM and the Auto Team officials discussed and analyzed GM™s 

liabilities related to Delphi™s pensions.  GM officials told SIGTARP that GM 

needed PBGC to release liens on Delphi assets so Delphi could successfully emerge from bankruptcy.
18  According to one GM official interviewed by                                                  18 PBGC held liens on certain Delphi assets that, according to a 
Delphi official, an investor 
or purchaser of Delphi would 
want free and clear title.  
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
14   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
SIGTARP, ﬁUltimately to get Delphi out of bankruptcy, we needed the [pension] 

plans to be terminated.ﬂ  PBGC offici
als told SIGTARP that PBGC advocated 
that GM go beyond the top-ups and take back (assume the full cost) of both 

Delphi™s hourly and salaried pension plans.  The Auto Team and GM identified at 
least three options:  (1) for New GM to 
agree to the top-up for the Delphi hourly employees consistent with the preexisting 
agreements (full cost
 of pensions less PBGC payout) (at a projected cost of 
approximately $1-1.5 billion for the UAW, 
IUE, and USW hourly employees); (2) for 
New GM to take back (assume) all of 
Delphi™s pension plans, paying all obligations under the plans without a payout from PBGC (at a projected cost of $5.4 b
illion); and (3) for New GM to take on no obligation to top up or take back any Delphi pension plans (zero cost).19    
GM took the position that Treasury™s c
onsent was required.  A PBGC email 
received by Auto Team officials stated, ﬁI
n discussions with Delphi and directly with PBGC, GM has stated that it cannot assume responsibility for either the 
previously agreed-to hourly plan pension obligations or the Delphi™s salaried plan 
pension obligations, as doing so woul
d represent taking on additional pension 
obligations in violation of the pension covenant in GM™s TARP loan.ﬂ  A February 2009 PBGC document stated, ﬁD
elphi believes that GM, in refusing to discuss further pension plan assumptions
, may be looking to the to-be-appointed 
car czar [Rattner] to mandate that GM a
ssume Delphi pensions as part of GM™s 
continued use of TARP money.ﬂ20    
Auto Team official Feldman negotiate
d with PBGC on behalf of GM, which 
contributed to an expectation that the presence of Treasury could potentially change the outcome.  Mr. Rattner told 
SIGTARP that having the Auto Team work 
directly with PBGC was viewed as more
 efficient because it was Government to 
Government.  Additionally, at least one 
GM official told SIGTARP that GM 
thought there was some benef
it to Treasury taking the lead on dealing with the PBGC because it was ﬁGovernment agency to Government agencyﬂ and Treasury 

would get a better deal for GM.  The presence of Treasury as a Government 
agency created expectations on PBGC™s part that decisions on what obligations GM would take on related to the Delphi pensions would proceed differently than what would have normally occurred in
 PBGC™s negotiations with a private 
company and potentially save PBGC billi
ons of dollars.  A PBGC official told SIGTARP when discussing the likelihood of GM™s absorption of the Delphi pension plans that ﬁas [Treasury] got involved, we were more hopeful.ﬂ  In a 
deposition, Mr. Feldman stated that the PB
GC ﬁasked us whether we would force 
General Motors to take the plan on.ﬂ  If GM were to assume the full cost of the 
Delphi hourly plan, it would require 
Treasury™s approval.  There was a split 
                                                 19 This audit was conducted in coordination with GAO to avoid excessive duplication of efforts.  GAO reviewed PBGC™s 
termination of Delphi™s hourly and salaried pension plans and other PBGC issues.  The objectives of SIGTARP™s 
audit did not involve a review of PBGC™s termination of the Delphi pension plans. 
20 Later, an April 17, 2009, PBGC document makes it clear that Delphi wanted the pension plans to be transferred to GM 
(ﬁwith support from Treasuryﬂ) but that 
ﬁGM contends it cannot afford the Plans,
 and that covenants in the Treasury 
loan agreement prevent GM from taking on new pension liabilities.ﬂ 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
15   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
within the Auto Team on whether GM 
should assume the Delphi hourly plan, 
with Mr. Feldman in favor of GM a
ssuming the hourly plan (which would go 
beyond the top-up), and Mr. Wilson not in
 favor of assuming it.  The PBGC 
official told SIGTARP, ﬁAs it relates to
 the possibility of GM sucking up the hourly plan–I knew what GM™s position was.
  It didn™t have to do anything with 
GM.  If there was any possibility that it was going to happen, it was going to come from Treasury.  It would be Treasur
y folks because they had the right of 
refusal and could dictate what was going to happen.ﬂ  
Delphi salaried retirees and Delphi officials also hoped Treasury™s presence 
would make a difference in whether GM 
would take on obligations for Delphi 
pensions.  Treasury™s Auto Team met 
with representatives from the Delphi 
salaried retirees on more than one occa
sion.  During those meetings, the salaried 
retirees asked the Auto Team to consider 
fairness in making their pensions whole.  
The Auto Team also met with Delphi offi
cials.  Delphi™s then-CFO John Sheehan told SIGTARP that from his perspective, GM was deferring decision making on 
all subjects.  He also told SIGTARP, ﬁGM 
wasn™t in a position to dictate.  Harry [Wilson] and Matt [Feldman] were the d
ecision makers and the drivers on how 
this would all occur Œ in my view.ﬂ    TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
16   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Treasury™s Role in the Decision for GM To File 

Bankruptcy  SIGTARP found that Treasury™s Auto Team 
directed GM™s restructuring efforts toward bankruptcy.  An Auto Team offici
al told SIGTARP, ﬁWe didn™t decide to 
file a bankruptcy.  We decided to support 
a bankruptcy.ﬂ  That same Auto Team 
official told SIGTARP that GM decided 
to file bankruptcy and GM came to the conclusion that it could not reorganize without bankruptcy, and the question for Treasury was ﬁdo we support a GM filing or 
not?ﬂ  While it is technically true 
that GM had to decide to file bankruptcy, it was the Auto Team that took steps to signal to GM their strong preference for bankruptcy and bring significant influence over GM™s decision to file bankruptcy.  
GM and Treasury™s Auto Team had different
 approaches as to how to proceed in order to create a sustainable GM.  GM
™s executives continued to prefer a restructuring of the company outside of 
the bankruptcy process, while the Auto 
Team preferred bankruptcy.  According 
to Auto Team leader Rattner in 
Overhaul, the Auto Team had already determined th
at there was no alternative to bankruptcy before rejecting GM™s restructuring plan on March 30, 2009.  The Auto Team™s 

March 27, 2009, replacement of GM 
CEO Wagoner, who did not favor bankruptcy, and the choice of Mr. Henderson as CEO, signaled the Auto Team™s 
preference for bankruptcy and directed 
GM™s restructuring efforts toward 
bankruptcy.  Mr. Henderson told SIGTARP 
that his view on bankruptcy for GM was different than Wagoner™s.  Once Tr
easury replaced Mr. Wagoner with Mr. 
Henderson as CEO, there was a greater willingness by GM to consider bankruptcy.  On April 1, 2009, as one of his first acts as the new CEO, Mr. Henderson told GM employees that bankrupt
cy was likely.  However, despite that 
statement, Mr. Henderson told SIGTARP 
that his preferred approach was to restructure GM by completing a voluntary bond exchange Œ an offer proposed to bondholders to convert their debt to equity Œ hoping to avoid bankruptcy.  
Auto Team officials first raised the pros
pect of an expedited bankruptcy with GM during the first week of April 2009, acco
rding to then-CFO Young.  In his 
interview with SIGTARP, Young said the Auto Team ﬁhighly suggestedﬂ and felt 
ﬁpretty stronglyﬂ that a Section 363 bankruptcy was the ﬁbest approachﬂ because 

it would be quicker to complete than a 
normal bankruptcy that could take 9 to 12 
months.  Then-CEO Henderson told SIGTARP the Auto Team began to outline 

the 363 process for GM, with GM™s 363 planning being similar to what the Auto 
Team was doing with Chrysler, but Chrysler was much simpler.
21  Then-CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that Treasury™s view was that speed had real power, and that to do a deal in a commercial 
and fast way could only be accomplished 
with a 363 sale.                                                  21 Chrysler filed a 363 bankruptcy on April 30, 2009.
   TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
17   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Then-CFO Young told SIGTARP that GM 
thought of bankruptcy as ﬁPlan B.ﬂ  
Then-CEO Henderson described ﬁPlan Aﬂ as the bond exchange.  CFO Young told SIGTARP that with the right terms on the bond exchange, GM was hoping to 

reduce its liabilities enough to
 avoid bankruptcy.  An Auto Team official told 
SIGTARP that the Auto Team did not s
upport the bond exchange and felt that a bond exchange alone was unlikely to restructure GM™s balance sheet sufficiently to make GM viable.  In fact, at least one
 Auto Team official told SIGTARP that 
he opposed GM™s decision to proceed with the bond exchange.  This same Auto 

Team official told SIGTARP that by the th
ird week of April it was clear that GM needed to be shepherded through a prepackaged bankruptcy.  The Auto Team also 

directed GM™s restructuring efforts to
ward bankruptcy by discussing with GM their preference that 90% of bondholders participate in the bond exchange, which commenced on April 27, 2009.  Henderson told SIGTARP that Treasury set the 
ﬁlevel of acceptanceﬂ of the bond exchange ﬁvery high,ﬂ making bankruptcy more 
likely.  
 
Then-CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that it was not clear that bankruptcy was 
the only option until the bond exchange 
failed.  GM would need to file 
bankruptcy by June 1, 2009, when a $1 billion bond payment came due.  GM™s 

then-CFO Young told SIGTARP that Treasury did not want to loan GM $1 billion 
to make this payment.  
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
18   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Treasury Agreed To Fund GM™s Bankruptcy with 

$30.1 Billion from TARP, but Only for 40 Days 
 Treasury determined that GM would n
eed $30 billion, but the Auto Team was 
concerned about giving the TARP funds in a loan that would be too much debt on 
GM™s balance sheet, so the Auto Team proposed to senior Treasury officials that Treasury fund GM™s bankruptcy with a loan that would convert to common stock ownership in New GM Œ the purchaser of Old GM™s assets in bankruptcy.  This would mean that the Government would have
 a substantial ownership interest in a private company.  According to Rattner in Overhaul
, the Auto Team discussed it 
with Lawrence Summers on May 11, 2009.  Dr. Summers, Secretary Geithner, 
and ultimately President Obama approve
d an additional $30.1 billion in a TARP loan (in the form of a debtor-in-posse
ssion (ﬁDIPﬂ) loan) that, when combined with the $19.4 billion in prior TARP injections, totaled $49.5 billion in TARP 
funds in GM.  The TARP investment in
 GM would convert to 61% Government 
ownership of common stock in New GM.  

 
Treasury conditioned the TARP financing 
on GM exiting bankruptcy in 40 days, 
a requirement created by the Auto Team.  The TARP loan, effective on June 1, 

2009, provided that the loan would default if GM failed to obtain certain bankruptcy court orders acceptable to Treas
ury by July 10, 2009 (40 days later).  
Auto Team leader Rattner has referred
 to GM™s bankruptcy as a ﬁquick-rinse bankruptcy.ﬂ  A quick-rinse bankruptcy is structured to move through legal 
proceedings faster than the average 
bankruptcy.  Mr. Rattner recounted in 
Overhaul that GM hired prominent bankruptcy 
attorney Harvey Miller, who told 
Auto Team official Wilson that the time
line was ﬁimpossibly aggressiveﬂ and that 
ﬁit™s never been done before.ﬂ  GM™s then-CFO Young told SIGTARP that although GM agreed that a drawn-out 
bankruptcy would negatively impact 
consumers™ perceptions about GM, GM thought
 it would take at least two to three months to complete bankruptcy and th
e 40 days did not seem realistic.   
SIGTARP found that Treasury conditioned giving GM $30.1 billion in TARP 
funds on a quick-rinse bankruptcy that w
ould end in 40 days because Auto Team 
officials thought it was the best way to save the American automobile industry, 
concerned that GM could not survive a lengthy bankruptcy and GM™s failure would have broader systemic consequences
.  Treasury Auto Team officials were 
concerned that if GM™s bankruptcy was prolonged, consumers would stop 
purchasing GM™s automobiles, and GM would likely fail.  As one Auto Team 
official explained to SIGTARP, consum
ers might be cautious about buying cars 
from a bankrupt automaker.  He told 
SIGTARP that ﬁ–one of the things you 
worry about when you buy a car is getting the car serviced.ﬂ  Therefore, in a lengthy bankruptcy, GM would run the risk
 of consumers saying, ﬁThe heck with 
it, I™ll buy someone else™s car,ﬂ the Auto 
Team official told SIGTARP.  Once the 
decision to have GM go into bankruptcy was made, the same Auto Team official 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
19   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
told SIGTARP, ﬁIt was in our interest to
 try to expedite the bankruptcy, if we could,ﬂ given the risk of ﬁgetting in and getting stuckﬂ in bankruptcy. Treasury had leverage to set conditions on TARP funds, even if it was a timeframe that did not seem realistic to 
GM and had never been done before.  If GM™s bankruptcy was not completed with
in the 40 days, GM risked losing its only source of financing.  GM also risked losing its purchaser in bankruptcy, given that Treasury would become the majority owner of New GM.  Treasury 

viewed the 40-day timeframe as a real d
eadline.  One Auto Team official told 
SIGTARP that Treasury was willing to ﬁw
alk awayﬂ rather than put in ﬁa huge 
amount more.  We advocated and put in 
a $30 billion DIP.  If you let people believe you would have done anything, that
 number could have been multiples of 
that.ﬂ  That same Auto Team official said
 they tried to be ﬁcommercial.ﬂ  Another 
Auto Team official testified in a depos
ition that if the 40-day timeframe was not 
met, ﬁWe expect the company to liquidateﬂ 
but ﬁ[GM] is always free to try to find alternative forms of financing.ﬂ 
 ﬁCherry-pickingﬂ Assets and Liabilities  Although Treasury, through its Auto Team, had significant leverage and influence 
on GM™s decisions and operations before the decision to file bankruptcy, Treasury™s influence over GM deepened after Treasury decided to fund GM™s 
bankruptcy and become the majority ow
ner of New GM.  SIGTARP found that 
with their leverage as the purchaser of GM™s assets in bankruptcy, Treasury™s Auto Team had significant influence on GM
 to make specific decisions that were 
in keeping with Treasury™s preferences.  Then-CFO Young told SIGTARP, ﬁWe 
put forward recommendations, but at the e
nd of the day, the purchaser [Treasury] makes the final decision.ﬂ  One Auto T
eam official told SIGTARP that ﬁWe 
approve technically everything because we don™t have to do the DIP [bankruptcy loan].  But no, not in the micro.  I mean it wasn™t, you know you bring us this, we 

approve this, we approve that.  It was bring us a plan and we do a DIP or we don™t do a DIP.ﬂ  Another Auto Team official te
stified in a deposition that the leverage Treasury had with Old GM was that Treasury was the only buyer for GM™s assets.  That same Auto Team official called 
Treasury™s leverage ﬁconsiderableﬂ because 
the alternative was ﬁcatastrophic,ﬂ adding that he meant liquidation. 

 As explained by an Auto Team official
 in a deposition, the 363 bankruptcy sale allowed New GM and the Auto Team to assume Old GM™s assets and ﬁcherry-

pickﬂ the liabilities that a ﬁcommercial
 buyerﬂ would want and New GM would 
need.  As that Auto Team official stated in a deposition, ﬁIt is up to the purchaser to exclude or assume liabilities.ﬂ  The Auto Team official further testified in the 

deposition, ﬁIt is my understanding that as
 the buyer, we get to determine which 
assets are, you know, assets we would buy and which liabilitiesﬂ we would take on.  This same Auto Team official told 
SIGTARP that ﬁour general perspective, and in general the right way to do a 363 sale as a buyer, is to assume all assets 
unless explicitly excluded, and to reject all Œ to leave behind all liabilities unless 
explicitly assumed.ﬂ  GM™s then-CFO
 Young told SIGTARP that GM and the 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
20   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Auto Team went down GM™s balance shee
t (including pensions and the supplier base), going over some line items in great detail. 

 
Without policies, procedures, or gu
idelines interpreting how to make 
commercially reasonable decisions, Treasur
y™s Auto Team made some decisions 
on which liabilities New GM would assume that were not commercially 

necessary, but the Auto Team called the 
decision ﬁcommercialﬂ because it could 
factor into public relations and the imag
e of New GM.  One Auto Team official 
testified in a deposition that the Auto
 Team requested that GM identify 
ﬁpolitically sensitiveﬂ liabilities.  Then-CFO Young told SIGTARP that this exercise was about identifying liabilities that might presen
t a public relations challenge if New GM did not assume them.  He also told SIGTARP that assuming 
these liabilities conflicted with taking a 
strictly commercial approach because GM 
could operate without them.  For example, 
the Auto Team official testified in the 
deposition that the Auto Team concluded 
that it was not commercially necessary 
for New GM to assume product liabilities.  However, New GM assumed those 

liabilities because, according to the Auto 
Team official, failure to assume them 
would impact consumers™ confidence in GM™s products, which the Auto Team 

official said was a commercial basis. 

 
In another instance, broader considerations, rather than just a commercially 
reasonable approach, were weighed by the Auto Team when they considered the 
possible closure of GM™s headquarters in Detroit.22  According to an Auto Team 
official, GM and the Auto Team considered moving GM™s headquarters out of 

Detroit to its Technical Center located outside of the city because the move would 
consolidate GM™s management operati
ons and save money.  According to 
Mr. Rattner™s account in Overhaul, around May 2009, CEO Henderson told Mr. Rattner that the move would cut GM
™s costs and, therefore, Mr. Rattner initially supported the initiative. 
 Nevertheless, Rattner wrote in 
Overhaul that 
White House and Treasury officials expressed concern about the economic impact 
of the move on the city of Detroit, an
d they retained the Detroit location.   Deals with Major Stakeholders Before Bankruptcy 
 According to an Auto Team official, as the buyer, Treasury determined which 
assets to buy and which liabilities to take on.  The Auto Team established a 
hierarchy of importance of stakeholders a
nd issues that had to be completed prior 
to GM™s bankruptcy filing to ensure its success.  Two liabilities that Treasury had already decided to assume were a new 
collective bargaining agreement with 
GM™s union, the UAW, and an agreement with GM™s bondholders.  A quick-rinse 

bankruptcy necessitates that major stake
holders negotiate and reach consensus 
prior to the proceeding in order to pr
event objections being filed in court by 
essential parties, which could delay the process.  An Auto Team official told 
                                                 22 An Auto Team official told SIGTARP that the decision to
 retain GM™s headquarters in Detroit was impacted by 
broader considerations. 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
21   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
SIGTARP that the two important stake
holders were the bondholders and the 
UAW.  The only question was the terms of those liabilities for New GM. 
 
An Auto Team official told SIGTARP that
 the strength of the negotiating parties during GM™s bankruptcy and throughout labor negotiations was dictated by the leverage each group held.  The looming June 1 bond payment and the 40-day time 

constraint on the bankruptcy limited the 
time for negotiation and sent a powerful 
message to GM and the major stakeholde
rs.  With no indication that Treasury 
would extend the 40 days, GM and its major 
stakeholders were required to reach a deal prior to bankruptcy or risk GM running out of funding and having to liquidate.  Auto Team leader Rattner stated in 
Overhaul that the 40-day deadline was the financial equivalent of ﬁputting a gun to the heads of the bankruptcy judge, GM™s stakeholders, and of course Team Auto itself.ﬂ   
 
Negotiations took place on May 18-19 at Treasury headquarters and at the offices of Treasury™s lawyers in Washington, D.C.  According to one Auto Team official, 
the UAW and the bondholders were ke
pt ﬁin the darkﬂ during ﬁparallel negotiationsﬂ as deals were negotiated.  According to Auto Team official 
Feldman™s professional biography, ﬁThe Auto Team conducted complex 

negotiations with all major constituents
 of both companies [GM and Chrysler], 
including Fiat SpA (which now runs Chrysler), the United Auto Workers and 

major creditors of both auto makers unde
r a compressed timeline.ﬂ  Another Auto 
Team official testified in
 a deposition that Treasury represented the owners of New GM in the negotiations.  Mr. Wilson 
told SIGTARP that he and Mr. Bloom 
ﬁset the tenorﬂ for the talks with the 
UAW, while he and Mr. Feldman ﬁset the 
toneﬂ for the talks with bondholders.    Treasury™s Role in Pre-Bankruptcy Deal with
 GM™s Bondholders  
 SIGTARP found that Treasury made a d
eal with the bondholders prior to GM filing bankruptcy because of the bondholders
™ leverage to object to and prolong 
the bankruptcy.  An Auto Team official 
told SIGTARP that establishing a deal 
with the bondholders would eliminate a majo
r risk of delay in bankruptcy court.  Auto Team officials told SIGTARP that
 GM™s bondholders had the leverage to object to and prolong GM™s bankruptcy.  At the time of GM™s bankruptcy, 
bondholders held approximately $27.2 billi
on of GM™s unsecured debt, which, 
according to a GM public filing, ﬁcomprise[d
] substantially all of Old GM™s debt and a significant majority of the total 
unsecured claims against Old GM.ﬂ  An 
Auto Team official explained that th
e bonds were owned by millions of people 
around the world, some bonds were 100 y
ears old, and without a settlement 
before bankruptcy, it would have been painstakingly difficult to try to solicit each 
bondholder to approve any bankruptcy plans, which would have taken at least nine months.   

 
Mr. Feldman, who had primary responsib
ility within the Auto Team for 
negotiating with the bondholders, told SIGTARP he worked with representatives   TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
22   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
of GM™s bondholders to reach the ag
reement that would reduce GM™s 
indebtedness and clear the path for GM™s quick-rinse bankruptcy, but he would not have given them everything simply to get a deal.  Auto Team leader Rattner 

stated in Overhaul, ﬁWe valued the package at about
 12 to 15 cents on the dollar, more than what they deserved (zero).
..ﬂ  CEO Henderson explained to SIGTARP 
that in the bankruptcy, Treasury was se
nior to the bondholders and the VEBA 
trust.  If GM™s bondholders agreed not to oppose GM™s bankruptcy, Treasury would provide additional consideration to Old GM during the bankruptcy proceeding, to the benefit of GM™s bondholders.
23  CEO Henderson told 
SIGTARP that Treasury was in a pos
ition to provide bondholders with a better recovery than under the bond exchange.  This was because Treasury would own 

most of the equity of New GM, and, according to Henderson, equity was 

something only Treasury could provid
e.  When asked whether GM was 
authorized to negotiate with bondholders for a larger slice of equity (stock), an Auto Team official testified in a depos
ition that, for matters 
about what capital (stock in New GM) Treasury would be willing to extend, the only one with authority was Treasury.    Treasury™s Role in Pre-Bankruptcy Deal with 
UAW, Which Included 
New GM Assuming the Top-Up of Pensions 
 Treasury™s requirement in the December 2008 TARP loan agreement that GM 

reach a new deal with the UAW, Treas
ury™s conditioning TARP funds on a 40-
day quick-rinse bankruptcy, and UAW™s levera
ge to stall the bankruptcy or strike pressured GM on ﬁgetting the deal doneﬂ with the UAW.  The UAW had 
extensive leverage representing approximately 50,000 GM employees at the time 
of GM™s restructuring Œ 99% of GM™s unionized workforce (according to one 
Auto Team official).  Other Delphi a
nd GM executives, as well as Government 
and UAW officials, corrobor
ated in separate interviews with SIGTARP that 
UAW had significant leverage due to the threat of a labor disruption.  One GM 
official told SIGTARP, ﬁYou couldn™t run 
this play without the agreement of the 
UAW.ﬂ  Another GM official told SIGTARP, ﬁAll you need is one missing part 
and it stops production.  They had significant leverage– We needed the 
cooperation and enthusiasm of the UAW.ﬂ   
 
In addition to the traditional strike leverage, the requirement in the TARP loan 
agreement for a new collective bargaining agreement, and the upcoming deadline 

for GM to file bankruptcy, gave the UAW additional leverage.  The UAW understood that GM had to reach an agreemen
t with it to be able to survive, and those same facts put pressure on GM.  Gi
ven the need for GM to file bankruptcy by June 1, 2009, GM only had a few weeks to come to an agreement with the 

UAW, and if they did not come to ag
reement, GM risked the UAW prolonging 
the bankruptcy beyond 40 days, which could lead to GM liquidating.  An Auto                                                  23 Under the proposal, New GM would issue to Old GM 10% of the common equity of New GM and warrants to 
purchase an additional 15% of the equity of New GM. 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
23   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Team official told SIGTARP that UAW wa
s a very major constituency that could 
slow down and potentially block the entire sale.  The time constraint of Treasury™s 
financing was well known to the UAW and he
lped give it a bargaining advantage.  An Auto Team official told SIGTARP th
e Auto Team had ﬁa strong preferenceﬂ 
that GM have ﬁa deal in place with the 
UAWﬂ prior to its bankruptcy filing, 
adding, ﬁAnd we made that known to both sides.ﬂ 
 The Negotiations  At the May 18-19, 2009 negotiations at Treasury™s offices and at the offices of Treasury™s lawyers in Washington, D.
C., GM™s CEO Henderson and UAW™s 
President Ron Gettelfinger sat at opposite sides of a table, with Treasury™s Auto 

Team at the end of the table.  The UAW 
came to the negotiations with a ﬁhit listﬂ 
of priority items that included New GM
 assuming the pension benefit guarantee 
(top-up) for the former GM employees at 
Delphi represented by UAW.  The same 
UAW official who had been involved in the 1999 negotiation for the top-up (and an extension of that agreement when it was scheduled to expire in 2007) was 

negotiating with GM in 2009.24  That UAW official told
 SIGTARP that the top-up agreement had been strongly bargained for in 1999.  Auto Team leader Rattner 

told SIGTARP the item on the term sheet 
showed that it was something that was 
important to the UAW.  Mr. Rattner to
ld SIGTARP that ﬁthe top-up was an integral item on the list of needs for the 
UAW.ﬂ  Another Auto Team official told 
SIGTARP that the UAW made it clear that
 it cared about the ﬁDelphi matterﬂ and 
so the UAW put out these ﬁkey termsﬂ that
 it ﬁexpected to be part of the overall deal.ﬂ 
 GM™s then-CFO Young told SIGTARP that the UAW negotiations were only focused on those aspects of the GM-UAW relationship that were discussed in the TARP loan agreement.  These were new labor costs and changing the UAW™s 

health care trust (the VEBA) funding to be at least 50% in GM stock.  An Auto 
Team official told SIGTARP that the 
2008 TARP loan agreement gave Treasury 
leverage to get the UAW to the bargaining table, with Treasury™s leverage as the only source of capital.  Another Auto Team official told SIGTARP, ﬁSince this 
was a financial matter that would eventually
 affect the interest of taxpayers, we had quite strong views.ﬂ  This same Auto
 Team official explained to SIGTARP 
that the consideration provided to the VEBA would impact the value of 
                                                 24 GM was significantly dependent on the automotive parts produced by Delphi and agreed in 2007 to assume Delphi™s 
hourly pension plan in two tranches to help Delphi reso
lve its pension liability problem and facilitate its exit from 
bankruptcy.  The initial agreement between GM and Delphi 
was entered into in 2007, but was ﬁamended and restatedﬂ 
in September 2008.  In September 2008, GM assumed the first tranche of Delphi™s hourly plan participants amounting 
to $2.1 billion in pension liabilities.  Those Delphi hourly 
employees whose pensions were 
transferred were no longer 
part of Delphi™s hourly pension plan.  GM was due to as
sume the second tranche, estimated at between $3.2 billion 
and $3.5 billion if Delphi substantially consummated its pl
anned bankruptcy reorganization.  However, because the 
reorganization was not consummated, the transfer did not 
occur.  Afterward, Delphi 
froze and ceased funding the 
hourly pension plan in Nove
mber 2008.  Delphi froze and ceased to f
und the Delphi salaried pension plan in 
September 2008.  
   TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
24   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Treasury™s equity, ﬁwhich was really what the taxpayers were going to get back for the money they put in.ﬂ 

 
Late in the negotiations, CEO Henderson 
broached the topic of pensions, as reported by Auto Team leader Rattner in 
Overhaul.  Mr. Rattner wrote that such changes would be worth billions of dollars to GM, but that when CEO Henderson raised it, UAW™s President Gettelfinger sai
d, ﬁWe aren™t going to sit in this room 
if pensions are on your list.ﬂ  Moreover, no person SIGTARP interviewed could recall any discussion of the top-up agreement at the negotiations.  UAW™s then-
General Counsel Dan Sherrick confirmed 
that negotiations focused only on ﬁbig ticket itemsﬂ and that ﬁother prior agr
eements,ﬂ including the top-up agreement, 
were not negotiated.  Then-CEO Henderson 
told SIGTARP that the pressure to 
finish negotiations resulted in no negotiations that he could recall related to the top-up agreement.  

 
Then-CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that the meetings with the UAW did not 
initially go well, and UAW turned down 
a Treasury-backed proposal at 11 p.m. 
the second day.  Auto Team leader Rattner stated in 
Overhaul that the UAW 
rejected the proposal at 3 a.m.  At 
the end of two days, the UAW left the 
negotiations at an impasse.  The UAW had leverage because it knew and 

understood from Treasury™s public statements that Treasury was committed to 

reorganizing GM and not letting GM fail.  An Auto Team
 official sa
id, ﬁI think they thought their leverage was they knew we would prefer all things equal to reorganize GM.ﬂ  One GM official told SIGTARP that, when the Federal 
Government came into the picture, it clearly changed the dynamics because the 

terms of the TARP loan agreement we
re clearly understood by the unions and GM needed the money.  According to CEO Henderson, UAW President 
Gettelfinger later called Auto Team offici
al Bloom and ﬁthe deal got done.ﬂ  CEO Henderson thought that Mr. Bloom sweetened 
the deal with warrants (options to purchase stock).  Auto Team leader Rattner stated in 
Overhaul that Mr. Bloom 
talked to Mr. Gettelfinger the next day (May 20, 2009), and two hours later, the UAW accepted the overall deal on the co
llective bargaining agreement.   
 
The Deal with UAW  Consistent with Treasury™s Auto Team™s 
practice, as with an
y liability, it would have been Treasury™s decision as the buyer 
to assume or reject the liability to 
top up the pensions of Delphi hourly UAW employees.  The top-up was never 
discussed in the negotiation where both GM and Treasury were present and actively negotiating.  Although the top-up was previously a separate written agreement, the top-up was now included as one of the obligations in the overall 

new collective bargaining agreement with the UAW, which was included under 

the Master Sale and Purchase Agreement selling assets to New GM.
25  GM could                                                  25 According to the UAW, it made a numb
er of concessions in the negotiation including: elimination of performance 
bonuses and cost of living adjustments, reduced holidays, scaled-back overtime rules, and frozen wages for new entry 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
25   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
not agree to the new collective bargaini
ng agreement (that included the top-up) on 
its own without Treasury™s approval.  The decision that New GM would honor the top-up was a joint decision by Treasury and GM, with Treasury deciding to approve the collective bargaining agreemen
t with the UAW that included the top-
up.  Auto Team leader Rattner told SIGT
ARP that GM had the option of honoring 
or not honoring its pension benefit guarantees in bankruptcy, but GM needed UAW workers and UAW™s consent was necessary for the bankruptcy.  

Mr. Rattner told SIGTARP, ﬁIt was not a 
ridiculous request.  And one that we could have honored and needed to honor.ﬂ   
 
Then-GM CEO Fritz Henderson told SIGTARP that GM knew about the top-up, 
but that ﬁthe focus was on getting the deal done.ﬂ  He told SIGTARP that if the pension benefit guarantee was not assume
d by New GM, there would have been a strike, and ﬁwe needed a workforce.ﬂ
26  However, the pressure on GM was not only the threat of a strike, but the risk that the UAW would prolong the bankruptcy.  CEO Henderson told SIGTARP th
at if the pension benefit guarantee with the UAW was not assumed by New GM, it would have been ﬁmission 

impossible.ﬂ  CEO Henderson told SIGTAR
P that renegotiating the pensions in bankruptcy would have taken a long time 
and would have had a negative impact 
on the survival of GM.  CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that he sought advice 

from bankruptcy attorney Harvey Mille
r regarding GM™s ability to seek modifications to pensions in bankruptcy and was told that to do so would have extended GM™s bankruptcy for at least six months.  GM believed this was not a 

risk that GM could afford to take because Treasury had given no indication that it would extend financing beyond 40 days. 
 Treasury had the power to object to New GM taking over the top-up obligation as part of the larger agreemen
t with the UAW, but like GM
, had no desire to blow up the larger deal.  Although Mr. Rattner told SIGTARP, ﬁLeft to our own devices, 
we would have not done the top-up,ﬂ he said that getting more on pensions ﬁwas a 
game of chicken we didn™t want to 
play.  We were under incredible time 
pressure.ﬂ  Although the Auto Team was concerned about the threat of the strike, they were also concerned with the UAW prolonging the bankruptcy.
27  When 
asked whether they could have been tougher on the UAW, an Auto Team official 
told SIGTARP, ﬁWe had to negotiate
 a deal that the UAW and bondholders 
would acceptﬂ and ﬁYou do need employees
 to say yes and bondholders to say 
yes.  No one thought they [GM] could su
rvive an 18-month bankruptcy.ﬂ  In an 
interview with SIGTARP, another Auto T
eam official called UAW the ﬁbig dogﬂ 
                                                                                                                                                             
employees.  GM would also be allowe
d to use stock to replace debt for th
e VEBA health care trust and other 
concessions.   
26 UAW officials told SIGTARP that the top-up was a priority
 and if New GM had not honored the top-up agreement, 
the UAW would have objected to the bankruptcy sale and ﬁthey would have had a workforce stoppage.ﬂ  A UAW 
official indicated to SI
GTARP that the threat of a strike was real.   
27 An Auto Team official told SIGTARP that Treasury assumed it would have ownership in the company and ﬁwe had to 
ask ourselves what is the value of an ownership stake in 
GM that is not making automobiles–If they don™t come to 
work in the morning, it™s tricky to make cars.ﬂ 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
26   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
because the union represented most of GM™s
 workforce and a failure to establish 
an agreement with UAW could have result
ed in GM™s liquidation, which the Auto Team did not want.  The Auto Team offi
cial told SIGTARP, ﬁI don™t know what 
would have happenedﬂ and that not having an agreement with UAW would have 
been like ﬁshooting yourself in the head,ﬂ adding that it could have resulted in the liquidation of GM. 
 
   TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
27   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
GM Completes Bankruptcy in 40 Days Without 
Agreeing To Top Up Any Other Delphi Employee 
 
During bankruptcy, the existing General Motors Corporation, Old GM, sold 
substantially all of its assets to a wholly new company, New GM, which emerged 
from GM™s bankruptcy on July 10, 2009, with
 most of the company™s debt and 
liabilities remaining with Old GM.
28  An Auto Team official told SIGTARP the 
quick-rinse bankruptcy was consistent with the Auto Team™s commercially 
reasonable approach.  However, GM CEO Henderson said to SIGTARP that, 
according to an assessment performed pr
ior to the bankruptcy, Treasury overpaid 
for GM.  GM™s financial advisor determin
ed that Treasury agreed to purchase New GM at more than New GM™s ﬁEnterprise Value.ﬂ  Auto Team leader Rattner 

acknowledged in a statement made to th
e press in December 2011 that Treasury 
may have overpaid.  He re
portedly stated, ﬁWe put more cash into GM than we 
probably needed to Œ and we knew this.  It™s part of why GM is so well-
capitalized today.ﬂ29   
GM and Treasury had agreed that New GM would assume the liability for the top-
up of pensions of UAW hourly retirees at Delphi.  Treasury informed PBGC of 
the decision to top up rather than take back the full cost of the Delphi hourly 
pensions.  According to a 
PBGC official, an Auto Te
am official notified PBGC, 
saying ﬁWe™ve done the math, and the liabi
lity associated with assumption is 
greater than the top-up.ﬂ30  According to an internal Treasury memorandum, on 
June 30, 2009, an Auto Team official info
rmed PBGC that Treasury would not be 
able to provide financing support to GM in an amount sufficient to allow the continuation of Delphi™s hourly pension plan, but that it was anticipated that GM™s pension benefit guarantees to the hourly employees would be preserved.  Treasury and GM did not agree to top up the pensions of any other Delphi retiree in GM™s bankruptcy.  However, after GM™s bankruptcy, New GM decided to top up the pensions of certain Delphi ﬁsplinter unionsﬂ that had filed an objection to Delphi™s bankruptcy.    Delphi Salaried Retirees  SIGTARP found that Delphi™s salaried reti
rees had no leverage, other than what they hoped to be political leverage and that Treasury, as a Government agency, 
                                                 28 On June 1, 2009, GM filed a voluntary petition for reorganiza
tion under Chapter 11 of the 
U.S. Bankruptcy Code (11 
U.S.C. §§ 1101-1174) and conducted a court-supervised asset 
sale (under 11 U.S.C. § 363), in which substantially all 
of the operating assets of the company were sold to 
General Motors Company, or New GM, and most of the 
company™s debt and liabilities remained in the possession of Motors Liquidation Company, or Old GM, which is 
being addressed in bankruptcy court.  New GM emerged from GM™s bankruptcy on July 10, 2009. 
29 The Detroit News
, ﬁRattner: Bailout a ‚S
uccess,™ﬂ 12/16/2011. 
30 An Auto Team official told SIGTARP that he wanted to include the Delphi hourly employees because he believed that 
it would help push the Delphi bankruptcy through more quickly.  He told SIGTARP that when he attempted to get 
consensus from GM, GM pushed back and did not want to absorb this liability.   
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
28   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
would provide them with a top-up.  De
lphi salaried retirees had no active employees at GM, a critical difference between them and the UAW.  They were 

not creditors in GM™s bankruptcy because they did not have a preexisting agreement with GM to provide the pensi
on benefit guarantee as did the UAW and other unions.  In 1999, the salaried wo
rkers were not organized and did not negotiate a top-up agreement because th
eir pensions had been fully funded by GM.  Aware that they did not negotiate a top-up agreement with GM, 
representatives of Delphi™s salaried employees told SIGTARP that there should have been consistent treatment and th
at they would have no problem if nobody 
got a top-up.   
 
GM had taken the position in February and March 2009 that it had no preexisting obligation to the salaried employees and 
that the TARP loan agreement prohibited 
it from increasing its pension benefits w
ithout Treasury™s consent, and therefore GM alone could not authorize benefits for the salaried retirees.  GM™s then-CEO 
Henderson told SIGTARP that Treasury™s consent would have been necessary.  
When asked whether Treasury™s consent was necessary to top up the salaried workers, a GM executive told SIGTARP th
at ultimately Treasury had to agree.  
The cost was also over the $100 million thre
shold requiring Treasury™s consent.   
 
A Delphi salaried retiree 
told SIGTARP, ﬁUnlike the UAW, the only leverage we 
had was political.  The UAW had leverage
 because they were building parts.ﬂ  Therefore, Delphi salaried 
retirees have pushed for action to protect their pensions by appealing to the President, members of
 Congress, and Treasury officials for assistance.  On June 6, 2009, after a Congressman sent a letter to the President 
and the Auto Team appealing on behalf of 
the Delphi salaried retirees, GM briefly considered what, if anything, could be done to top up the pensions of Delphi™s salaried retirees.  On June 6, 2009, Delphi salaried retirees forwarded to then-GM CEO Fritz Henderson an email with the s
ubject, ﬁCongressman Lee Makes Direct 
Appeal to President Obama Demanding Fair
ness for Delphi Salaried Retirees.ﬂ  Immediately, CEO Henderson 
got in touch with Mr. Rattner, forwarding him the 
email.  Mr. Rattner promptly emailed other members of the Auto Team and 

Advisor to the President Brian Deese, saying that he had had a long conversation with CEO Henderson on this and other matte
rs.  He wrote, ﬁWith respect to the Delphi retirees, [then-GM Treasurer] Walte
r Borst is apparently preparing some 
kind of proposal for how to do something for them that is defensible.  Fritz seems 

relaxed/ambivalent.  We should be hear
ing more about this over the next 
24 hours.ﬂ  
 
Auto Team leader Rattner told SIGTARP that GM came to the Auto Team 

because ﬁGM wanted to do something for the [Delphi] salaried retirees.ﬂ  

Mr. Rattner discussed it with then-GM CEO Henderson.  Although Mr. Rattner could not remember the specifics of the 
conversation, he told SIGTARP that he 
thought there was nothing defensible from 
a commercial standpoint that could be 
done for the Delphi salaried retirees.  Mr. Rattner told SIGTARP, ﬁWe didn™t 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
29   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
think there was anything defensible.  We felt bad, but we didn™t think it was 
justifiable.ﬂ 

 
GM™s then-CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that he asked then-GM Treasurer 

Borst if there was anything that could be done for the Delphi salaried retirees.  CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that Treasurer Borst told him that nothing could 

be done and the salaried plan was well funded when Delphi was spun off.  Treasurer Borst told SIGTARP he info
rmed CEO Henderson that GM was unable 
to take action.  Treasurer Borst told SIGTARP, ﬁWe didn™t have a benefit 
guarantee agreement [with the salaried reti
rees] like the one the hourlies had.ﬂ  According to CEO Henderson, the salaried plan had been fully funded at the time 
of the spinoff and that there was no preexisting agreement to provide the salaried 
retirees with a pension benefit guarantee.  CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that Mr. Borst had explained that if GM found a way to fund the top-up during GM™s bankruptcy, it would be as if GM had funded the plan twice.  As CEO Henderson expressed to SIGTARP, ﬁIt was terrible for those who lost their benefits,ﬂ but he explained that from a commercial st
andpoint GM had already fully funded 
Delphi™s salaried pensions at the time of
 Delphi™s spinoff and there was no basis to do so again.  According to a Treasury document, it was estimated that Delphi 
salaried retirees would lose approxima
tely $440 million in pension benefits.  A 
top-up would be expected to cost an equivalent amount.   
The presence of the Government cha
nged the Delphi salaried retirees™ expectations.  One former Delphi salari
ed employee told SIGTARP that Treasury 
ﬁcannot throw off the mantle of Govern
ment and make themselves into a 
commercial enterprise.ﬂ  He continued, ﬁIt is wrong of our Government to take 
funds from everyone and give it to the fe
w.ﬂ  After the decision was made not to 
provide a top-up for salaried employees, the 
President read a letter from a Delphi 
salaried retiree and asked his advisors for information.  Lawrence Summers 
prepared a briefing memo to the Presid
ent in August 2009; however, there was no further action. 
 
Although Delphi salaried retirees had asked Auto Team official Bloom to 
consider preserving the pensions out of fairness, Auto Team official Bloom told 
SIGTARP that GM ﬁdid not 
provide a top-up to the salaried guys because I think [GM] concluded there was not a commerc
ially reasonable reason to do it.ﬂ  Mr. Bloom added that GM™s automotive pa
rts suppliers ﬁreceived a hundred cents on the dollar,ﬂ the UAW™s retirees received a number ﬁless than a hundred, but more than the bondholders,ﬂ and some got
 less than the bondholders.  Mr. Bloom 
told SIGTARP that they could not make
 everyone whole and ﬁThat™s not to say that people didn™t lose a lot or [were] hurt or were treated in a way that Œ sort of in a human way you would say that™s unfa
ir.  I don™t think that anybody thinks bankruptcy is fair.  It is what it is, though.ﬂ    
 
   TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
30   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Delphi Hourly Employees Repr
esented by Smaller Unions 
 SIGTARP found that although in GM™s bankruptcy, GM did not assume the other top-up agreements for Delphi IUE a
nd USW hourly employees because those 
unions did not have leverage, subsequently GM agreed to top up the smaller 
unions because of the leverage those unions had to prolong Delphi™s bankruptcy 
or strike, which GM believed would significantly impact 
its ability to survive.  
Then-CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that GM did not assume the IUE/USW 
pension benefit guarantees in GM™s bankr
uptcy because there were no active IUE 
or USW employees at GM.
31  According to a representative of both unions, the IUE and USW knew that they had little chance of succeeding in holding up or 
affecting GM™s bankruptcy.  GM did not have any discussions with these unions prior to filing for bankruptcy.  Altho
ugh the unions filed objections in GM™s 
bankruptcy, the GM bankruptcy judge dismissed their objections.
32  
From approximately July 10 to July 
22, 2009, GM was negotiating with the IUE and USW, which had filed objections in 
Delphi™s bankruptcy, had active workers at Delphi, and had told GM in the case of the IUE that representatives had asked that union to file for strike authorization.33  Then-CEO Henderson told SIGTARP 
that after GM™s 363 sale, there were residual issues with the IUE because the Auto Team had given parameters to
 GM to reduce by two-thirds post-employment benefits such as health care and pensions.  Then-CEO Henderson 

told SIGTARP that GM had proposed a 62% reduction in employment benefits, 
but Mr. Rattner told them it had to be two-thirds.  Given that these negotiations took place after New GM emerged from GM™s bankruptcy, the Auto Team was 

not involved in the same way they ha
d been, leading up to and through the bankruptcy.34                                                     31 ﬁThey are just dramatically less relevant,ﬂ Auto Team offi
cial Bloom told SIGTARP.  ﬁThey didn™t have nearly the 
same footprint and the drama that UAW had, the overwhelming majority of General Motors employees.ﬂ  Bloom told 
SIGTARP that as to those two unions, given his prior employment with USW, he made a conscious decision not to 
involve himself.   
32 The court ruled that New GM needed ﬁa 
properly motivated work fo
rceﬂ to succeed, which required that it ﬁenter into 
satisfactory agreements with the UAW.ﬂ  In commenting on the other unions, the bankruptcy judge ruled, ﬁAnd the 
Purchaser is not similarly motivated, in triaging its expendi
tures, to assume obligations for retirees of unions whose 
members, with little in the way of ex
ception, no longer work for GM.ﬂ 
33 An IUE official told SIGTARP that the union was prepared 
for a protracted conflict if GM had decided not to uphold 
IUE™s top-up agreement:  ﬁWithout a doubt, it would have been fought on the factory floors and in the district courts.ﬂ   
34 Following the bankruptcy sale from Old GM to New GM on July 10, 2009, the Auto Team told SIGTARP that they 
began to shift from active daily contact with GM to a less hands-on approach.  Members of the Auto Team indicated 
that Lawrence Summers was the principa
l advocate for a quick withdrawal of 
Government involvement in GM, an 
approach that was also strongly supp
orted by Secretary Geithner.  Nevertheless, Auto Team members acknowledged 
to SIGTARP that there were outstanding issues relating to 
GM that remained after the bankruptcy and for which the 
Auto Team still had some level of involvement.  As Mr. 
Rattner said to SIGTARP rega
rding continued involvement, 
ﬁWe agreed with Larry Summers that there were some loose ends that we had not finished.ﬂ  Another Auto Team 
official described it as ﬁclean upﬂ telli
ng SIGTARP, ﬁWhile they were out, there was still stuff that needed to get 
finalized and implemented, 
etc–And then largely, although there was a b
it of a transition period, largely we then 
moved into a monitoring role.ﬂ  Steven Rattner was one of the first to depart in late July 2009. 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
31   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
In July 2009, internal Government emails
 between the Auto Team and Advisor to 
the President Brian Deese discussed GM™s 
need to address issues with Delphi™s ﬁsplinter unions.ﬂ  Auto Team official
s did not recall deta
ils related to the 
emails.
35  When Senator Charles Schumer t
ook a position that GM should assume 
the Delphi salaried retire
e pensions, Mr. Deese emaile
d Mr. Rattner this ﬁmay 
complicate the optics of doing anything for 
the splinters.ﬂ  Other emails from 
Mr. Deese stated, ﬁWe will continue to f
ace intense scrutiny on this issue.  The 
politics of terminations is quite intenseﬂ 
and ﬁwe need to work on a clear rationale for the outcomes we™re moving toward, as 
well as an explan
ation of respective roles.ﬂ  Mr. Rattner emailed members of th
e Auto Team that he had spoken with 
Fritz Henderson about ﬁour logic on the splinters, which he [Henderson] was fine with. [Auto Team Analyst] Sadiq [Ma
lik] should speak to Janice [Uhlig]36 about the details, particularly how the reallocation of the $417mm would work.ﬂ 37  Auto Team member Feldman emailed memb
ers of the Auto Team about health 
care/pension benefit changes for IUE and USW employees, and Mr. Deese 
responded that the company™s organizing principle was parity between GM salaried and non-UAW hourlies
.  Mr. Deese referenced a discussion about health care costs and the ﬁcredible fairness arguments to augment the hourlies™ recovery 
based on the pension disparity, but that for all the reasons 
we discussed that would not be possible.  However, I think the logic of that conclusion strongly counsels in favor of bringing the top-up through.  Otherwise, we™re moving in the 
opposite direction from a position that we
 all agreed was itself on the edge of fairness.ﬂ 
 
In the emails from middle to late July
 2009, Mr. Feldman told the Auto Team and 
Mr. Deese, ﬁGM had separately concluded that as part of reaching a resolution with the splinters they needed to be prepared to honor the top-up.ﬂ  Mr. Deese 
later emailed the Auto Team that he told
 an IUE official th
at ﬁthis is GM™s negotiation,ﬂ that they should only engage in discussions if there is a ﬁrisk that GM would go substantially beyond what we had discussed with them,ﬂ to which 

Mr. Feldman replied, ﬁI continue to think 
we should stay out.  We have given GM 
our input but this is up to GM.ﬂ  CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that the input Treasury gave was the two-thirds reduction. 
                                                  35 Mr. Deese may have been emailing about this matter b
ecause Mr. Bloom sent the splinter unions to Mr. Deese 
because of Mr. Bloom™s prior employment with the USW. 
 Also, the splinter unions me
t with the Pr
esident on July 13, 2009, but pensions were not discussed.  SIGTARP was unable to interview Mr. Deese about these emails and 
these events because the Administration declined to make hi
m available for an interview b
ecause until just recently he 
was an advisor to the President.  The Administration cite
d what it referred to as a long-standing practice.  The 
Administration also did not grant SIGTARP™s request for 
an interview with Dr. Summers, although White House 
Counsel advised SIGTARP that they cont
acted Dr. Summers and that he indicated
 to them that he had no specific 
recollection of, or involvement in, the issue of the Delphi
 pensions.  Dr. Summers is not a current employee of the 
Administration. 
36 Janice Uhlig was a GM health care finance executiv
e involved in the bene
fit analysis for GM. 
37 The $417 million figure related to health care costs related to the two-thirds reduction in certain costs for GM that 
Mr. Rattner had set for GM as a guideline during the GM bankruptcy.  
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
32   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Although the meaning of these Government emails is unclear, GM officials told 

SIGTARP that they did not know the views 
of Treasury or the White House.  GM 
Associate General Counsel Frank Jawors
ki told SIGTARP that Mr. Feldman 
asked for updates on the progress of negotiations but did not express any views of the White House or Treasury.  He told SI
GTARP that there were no constraints or 
limitations placed by Treasury during the 
talks with the unions.  Then-CEO 
Henderson told SIGTARP that he did not remember talking to anyone in the 

Administration about the t
op-up or that anyone put limitations or constraints on the negotiations.  He told SIGTARP that 
he did not recall any suggestion that GM provide the top-up, or anyone at Treasury or the Administra
tion (such as Mr. Deese) wanting GM to provide the top-up.  CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that there was no pressure to provide the top-up from the Administration or Treasury. 
 
On September 10, 2009, as part of a larg
er settlement agreement that also 
addressed retiree health care, New GM agreed to honor IUE™s and USW™s Delphi 
top-up agreements at an estimated co
st of $350 million.  CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that providing the top-up was n
ecessary ﬁto get the deal done,ﬂ saying there was a clear inference that IUE could 
strike at Delphi, wh
ich would have shut down GM.38  GM™s then-CFO Young told SIGTARP, ﬁIf Delphi shut down, we 
shut down.ﬂ39  Then-CEO Henderson and another GM executive told SIGTARP 
that although Treasury knew about these top-ups and did not oppose them, GM 
did not seek Treasury™s consent because the TARP loan agreement prohibiting 
GM from taking on new pension liabilitie
s was between Treasury and Old GM, not New GM.                                                   38 One GM official told SIGTARP that the unions got the agreement because liquidation of Delphi would have been a 
disaster for GM.  
39 GM™s former CFO Young told SIGTARP that if the Delphi bankruptcy had gone on longer, it would have been 
difficult for GM and GM would have had to develop an alternative means to obtain parts.  Delphi exited bankruptcy 
in October 2009.  
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
33   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Conclusion  The U.S. Department of the Treasury™s 
(ﬁTreasuryﬂ) injection of Troubled Asset Relief Program (ﬁTARPﬂ) funds in Gene
ral Motors Corporation (ﬁGMﬂ) and Chrysler Group LLC (ﬁChryslerﬂ) was the only bailout with a President™s Designee overseeing the companies™ rest
ructurings.  With the first TARP 
injection of $13.4 billion in December 
2008, Treasury assigned responsibility 
over GM™s restructuring to the President™s Designee.  In February 2009, the President designated the Presidential Task Force on the Auto Industry (ﬁAuto 
Task Forceﬂ), which delegated the responsibility for GM™s restructuring to four primary officials who were part of an Au
to Team (ﬁAuto Teamﬂ), three of whom 
worked at Treasury from February 2009 to the summer of 2009,
40 led by Steven Rattner, who was called the ﬁcar czar.ﬂ
41  The existence of the Auto Team and the 
role these Treasury officials played shar
ply contrasted with the role played by Treasury officials under other TARP programs.  These four Auto Team officials 
played a direct role in GM™s decisions 
and operations up to and through one of the largest and fastest bankruptcies in our 
nation™s history.  A new company referred 
to as New GM emerged from GM™s ba
nkruptcy in July 2009, with Treasury owning 61% of its common stock on behalf of taxpayers.  New GM purchased substantially all of GM™s assets whil
e leaving behind many 
of its liabilities. 
 
One of the liabilities that New GM agreed
 to honor related to the pensions of certain former GM employees who had worked in its automobile parts division 

Delphi Corporation (ﬁDelphiﬂ), when GM spun off Delphi into an independent company in 1999.  The agreement ran to Delphi employees who were paid an 

hourly wage (an ﬁhourly employeeﬂ) and we
re represented by certain unions.  
Delphi employees who were paid a salary 
(a ﬁsalaried employeeﬂ) did not have an 
agreement for GM to pay anything toward 
their pensions after the 1999 spinoff.  Delphi, which was GM™s largest supplier of parts, had been in bankruptcy since 2005 and did not have enough money to fund 
its pensions.  When interviewed by SIGTARP, the four Treasury Auto Team o
fficials made it clear that the decisions 
made and Treasury™s role related to Del
phi pensions had to be viewed in the broader context of GM™s restructuring. 
 
As GM™s only lender and later GM™s largest investor, Treasury, through its Auto Team, had significant leverage and influe
nce on GM™s decisions leading up to and through the bankruptcy.  Before and after 
GM submitted its restructuring plan to 
Treasury, the Auto Team had been assessing bankruptcy, and in February was planning (but not discussing with GM) a GM bankruptcy that would sell assets to 
a buyer, leaving behind many of its liabilitie
s.  The Auto Team believed this type 
of bankruptcy (called a ﬁ363 saleﬂ for a section of the bankruptcy code) would be quicker than a normal 9 to 12 months bankr
uptcy.  They were also planning this                                                  40 The fourth primary official continued to work on the Auto Team until the fall of 2011. 
41 The Auto Task Force was co-chaired 
by former Treasury Secret
ary Timothy Geithner and former National Economic 
Council Director Lawrence Summers.
   TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
34   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
type of bankruptcy for Chrysler.  The Auto Team first exerted their significant 
influence on GM by replacing GM™s CEO Rick Wagoner (who adamantly 

opposed bankruptcy) with Treasury™s choice, Fritz Henderson, a move that GM™s 
Board of Directors viewed as Treasury 
usurping their power.  Mr. Henderson told SIGTARP that the Auto Team™s decision to replace Mr. Wagoner with their 

selection sent a message to GM execu
tives and was an early indicator that Treasury, as the main investor in GM
, would have significant influence over GM™s decisions and operations. 
 
Importantly, three days later, on 
March 30, 2009, Treasury rejected GM™s restructuring plan that did not plan for bankruptcy, required a new plan signaling that GM may need bankruptcy, and inject
ed $6 billion in TARP funds in GM Œ 
enough financial support to last 60 days.  With only 60 days of funding, GM 
developed a new restructuring plan with significant influence 
and leverage from 
Treasury™s Auto Team.  The Decembe
r 2008 TARP loan agreement gave 
Treasury the explicit right to approve transactions over $100 million and new pension obligations, but the Auto Team™s
 influence went far beyond that legal right.  One GM official told SIGTARP,
 ﬁUltimately it was that GM is not in 
control.  And GM is totally dependent.ﬂ 
 
Although the Auto Team™s role was suppos
ed to be advisory for matters not 
requiring Treasury™s consent under the TARP Loan Agreement, in practice it was 
more than advisory.  SIGTARP found that the Auto Team used their leverage as 
GM™s largest lender to influence and set th
e parameters for GM to make decisions 
in areas that did not require Treasury consent.  One Au
to Team official described Treasury as GM™s ﬁonly lifeline.ﬂ  The 
Auto Team exerted the influence that 
came with that position.  
According to numerous interv
iews of Auto Team and GM officials, the Auto Team ﬁwas pers
istently pressingﬂ an
d ﬁpushedﬂ GM to take more significant actions than GM w
ould have done on its own, actions in line with Treasury™s preferences.  As SIGTARP pr
eviously reported in its prior audit, in response to the Auto Team™s rejecti
on of GM™s restructuring plan and its explicit comment that GM™s ﬁpaceﬂ of deal
ership closings was too slow and an 
obstacle to its viability, GM substantially
 accelerated its dealership termination 
timelines.
42  Although the Auto Team did not tell GM which dealerships to close, GM made the decision to accelerate the dealership closings with significant 

Treasury influence.   
 
An Auto Team official told SIGTARP th
at ﬁThere was a feeling that the Auto 
Team had to carefully manage GM, wh
ich would have given away Treasury™s money without blinking.ﬂ  Another Auto Team official explained to SIGTARP 
that Treasury did not want to start running the company, but when dealing with taxpayer resources, ﬁWe, the Government, were ultimately holding that purse 

string,ﬂ and Treasury reserved the right to tell GM that they would not back them.  
A third Auto Team official told SIGTARP 
that they did not cram down decisions 
                                                 42 SIGTARP-10-008, ﬁFactors Aff
ecting the Decisions of General Motors an
d Chrysler to Reduce Their Dealership 
Networks,ﬂ 7/19/2010. 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
35   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
on GM, ﬁbut we were investing a lot of money, and we had the opportunity to 

disagree.ﬂ  There was no need for ultimat
ums.  As one Auto Team official told 
SIGTARP, ﬁGM realized that there was 
no other available source of money.ﬂ  
When an Auto Team official was 
asked by SIGTARP how the Auto Team conveyed their preference or nudged GM to see things the way the Auto Team 
saw them, given that ultimately GM c
ould do its own thing, the Auto Team official said, ﬁWell, they c
ould, but then they couldn™t exist.  I mean, as I said, as 
the lender we had a fair amount of leverage.ﬂ   

 
Driven by broader concerns about the auto industry, Treasury™s Auto Team directed GM™s restructuring efforts towa
rd filing for bankruptcy.  The Auto Team 
took steps to signal to GM their strong preference for bankruptcy and bring significant influence over GM™s decision to file bankruptcy.  The Auto Team™s 
replacement of GM CEO Wagoner, who di
d not favor bankruptcy, and the choice of Mr. Henderson as CEO, signaled the 
Auto Team™s preference for bankruptcy 
and directed GM™s restructuring efforts toward bankruptcy.  GM CEO Henderson 
was open to bankruptcy but only as ﬁPlan B.ﬂ  He hoped to avoid bankruptcy by getting bondholders to exchange their debt for GM stock.  Despite the exchange 
being a condition under the TARP loan agreement, Treasury™s Auto Team did not 
believe that the bond exchange alone would make GM viable and asserted their 
leverage as the primary financial support 
of GM.   In the first week of April 2009, 
the Auto Team ﬁhighly suggestedﬂ to GM 
that they felt ﬁpretty stronglyﬂ that a Section 363 bankruptcy was the ﬁbest approach.ﬂ  The Auto Team opposed GM™s 
decision to proceed with the bond exch
ange and communicated to GM their 
preference that 90% of the bondholders participate in the exchange, a ﬁlevel of acceptanceﬂ that was ﬁvery high,ﬂ making bankruptcy more likely, according to 
then-CEO Henderson.  CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that it was not clear that 
bankruptcy was the only option until the bond exchange failed.  With a $1 billion 
bond payment coming due June 1, 2009, which Treasury would not fund, GM 

asked Treasury to fund GM™s bankruptcy.  Having already invested $19.4 billion in TARP funds and out of concern that a GM failure could have a cascading effect 
throughout the automobile industry by causi
ng related companies to fail, Treasury 
agreed to fund GM™s bankruptcy with a $30.1 billion TARP loan.  Not wanting the TARP debt on GM™s balance sheet, Treasury decided that its combined 
$49.5 billion in TARP loans would convert to 61% ownership of common stock 
in New GM, the purchaser
 in bankruptcy.    
Treasury™s Auto Team created a cond
ition on funding GM™s bankruptcy that 
would serve as pressure on GM and would drive pre-bankruptcy negotiations and decisions.  Treasury conditioned giving 
GM $30.1 billion in TARP funds on a 
ﬁquick-rinse bankruptcyﬂ that would end in
 40 days because Auto Team officials 
thought that was the best way to save the automobile industry, concerned that GM 
could not survive a lengthy bankruptcy and GM™s failure would have broader systemic consequences.  Treasury Auto T
eam officials deemed speed as essential 
and were concerned that if GM™s bankruptcy was prolonged, consumers would 
stop purchasing GM™s automobiles, and GM
 would likely fail.  Neither Treasury 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
36   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
nor GM believed that the company coul
d survive a lengthy bankruptcy; however, GM thought that the 40-day timeframe wa
s not realistic.  GM™s bankruptcy 
lawyer told the Auto Team that the ti
meline was ﬁimpossibly aggressive.  It™s 
never been done.ﬂ  Treasury had leverage to set conditions on TARP funds, even if it was a timeframe that did not seem 
realistic to GM and had never been done before.  If GM™s bankruptcy was not completed in time, GM risked losing its only 

source of financing and its purchaser in bankruptcy.    
Treasury™s influence over GM deepened after Treasury decided to fund GM™s 
bankruptcy and become the majority owner 
of New GM.  With their leverage as 
the purchaser of GM™s assets in bankruptcy, Treasury™s Auto Team had 
significant influence on GM to make specifi
c decisions that were in keeping with 
Treasury™s preferences.  GM™s then-CFO Young told SIGTARP, ﬁWe put forward 
recommendations, but at the end of the 
day, the purchaser [Treasury] makes the 
final decision.ﬂ  One Auto Team offi
cial told SIGTARP that ﬁWe approve 
technically everything because we don™t have to do the DIP [debtor-in-possession bankruptcy loan].  But no, not in the mi
cro.  I mean it wasn™t, you know you bring 
us this, we approve this, we approve that.  It was bring us a plan and we do a DIP or we don™t do a DIP.ﬂ  One Auto Team offi
cial testified in a deposition that the leverage Treasury had with Old GM was that Treasury was the only buyer for GM™s assets.  That same Auto Team
 official called Treasury™s leverage ﬁconsiderableﬂ because the alternative 
was ﬁcatastrophic,ﬂ adding that he meant 
liquidation.  One reason why the Auto Team had chosen a 363 bankruptcy sale 
was the ability to ﬁcherry-pickﬂ assets and liabilities that New GM would take on.  An Auto Team official stated in a de
position, ﬁit is my understanding that as the 
buyer, we get to determine which assets
 are, you know, assets we would buy and which liabilitiesﬂ we would take on.    
A quick-rinse bankruptcy requires consensus with major stakeholders, and 
Treasury used its significant financial levera
ge to get GM to reach agreement with 
the two stakeholders that Treasury believed could hold up GM™s bankruptcy Œ the bondholders and the International Uni
on, United Automobile, Aerospace, and 
Agricultural Implement Workers of America (ﬁUAWﬂ).  The 2008 TARP loan 

agreement required new agreements with both of these groups.  Treasury made a 

deal with the bondholders in the weeks prio
r to GM filing bankruptcy because of 
the bondholders™ leverage to object to and prolong the bankruptcy.  The Auto Team was actively involved in the ne
gotiations out of concern that the bondholders were a major risk of delayi
ng the bankruptcy if they objected.  Treasury was in a position to provide bondholders with a better recovery than under the bond exchange.  This was becau
se Treasury would own most of the 
equity of New GM, and, according to Henderson, equity was something only 

Treasury could provide.  In exchange for the bondholders agreeing not to oppose the bankruptcy, Treasury gave additional consideration to Old GM during the bankruptcy proceeding, to the benefit of GM™s bondholders.   

   TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
37   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Treasury™s requirement in the Decembe
r 2008 TARP loan agreement that GM 
reach a new deal with the UAW, Treas
ury™s conditioning TARP funds on a 40-
day quick-rinse bankruptcy, and UAW™s levera
ge to stall the bankruptcy or strike pressured GM on ﬁgetting the deal doneﬂ with the UAW and resulted in New GM 
taking on the liability to top up the pensions of UAW™s members who had worked 
at Delphi at the time of 
its 1999 spinoff from GM, increasing their pension benefit 
payments to their full benefit level.
43  Members of the Auto
 Team were actively 
involved in the negotiations with UAW that took place on May 18-19, 2009, at Treasury™s offices and at the offices of 
Treasury™s lawyers in Washington, D.C.  One Auto Team official testified in a 
deposition that Treasury represented the 
owners of New GM in the negotiations.  GM and Auto Team officials were 
concerned that the UAW, referred to as ﬁthe big dogﬂ by an Auto Team official, represented 99% of GM™s unionized employ
ees and could stop production with a strike.  In addition to the traditional stri
ke leverage, the requirement in the TARP 
loan agreement for a new collective bargaining agreement and the Auto Team™s 
40-day timeframe for bankruptcy gave th
e UAW additional leverage.  An Auto Team official told SIGTARP that the UA
W was a very major constituency that 
could slow down and potentially block the entire sale.  The Auto Team made it 
very clear to GM and the UAW that it was essential that they reach an agreement 
with UAW prior to GM™s bankruptcy 
filing.  The UAW und
erstood that GM could not walk away from negotiations a
nd had to reach an agreement with it to 
be able to survive, and those same fact
s put pressure on GM.  Given the need for GM to file bankruptcy by June 1, 2009 when a $1 billion bond payment came 

due, GM only had a couple of weeks to come to an agreement with the UAW, and 

if they did not come to agreement,
 GM risked the UAW objecting to and prolonging the bankruptcy beyond 40 days, which GM believed would lead to liquidation.   
The UAW came to the negotiations with a ﬁhit listﬂ of priority items that included 

New GM assuming the pension benefit gua
rantee (ﬁtop-upﬂ) for the former GM 
employees at Delphi repres
ented by UAW.  Since February 2009, the Auto Team 
had been analyzing options concerning the top-ups of Delphi employees and had 
been negotiating with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (ﬁPBGCﬂ), the 
Government entity that insures pensions.  The May 2009 UAW negotiations only 

focused on those aspects that were discussed in the TARP loan agreement, which 
included GM funding retiree health car
e costs using New GM stock, with Treasury as the majority owner of New 
GM.  According to Mr. Rattner™s book, 
Overhaul: An Insider™s Account of th
e Obama Administration™s Emergency Rescue of the Auto Industry (ﬁOverhaulﬂ), when GM™s CEO raised pensions, the UAW™s president reportedly sai
d, ﬁWe aren™t going to sit in this room if pensions 
are on your list.ﬂ  At the end of two days, the UAW left the negotiations at an impasse.  The UAW president called Auto 
Team official Ron Bloom the next day, 
and they made the overall deal for a new collective bargaining agreement.  The 
                                                 43 Delphi was GM™s largest supplier of auto parts and had been in bankruptcy since 2005. 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
38   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
top-up was never discussed in the negotiations where both GM and Treasury were 
present and actively negotiating.  
 
The Auto Team™s role in the decision to
 top up the pensions of Delphi™s UAW 
workers was not advisory.  Consistent with the Auto Team™s practice, as with any 
liability, it would have been Treasury™s decision as the buyer to assume or reject 
the liability to top up the pensions of Delphi hourly UAW employees.  The Auto 
Team made it clear to GM that they want
ed an agreement with the UAW prior to 
bankruptcy and the Auto Team actively 
negotiated and made the overall deal.  
Although the top-up was previously a separate written agreement, the top-up was 
now included as one of the obligations in the overall new collective bargaining agreement with the UAW, which was included in the Master Sale and Purchase 

Agreement selling assets to New GM.
44  GM could not decide on its own to agree to the new collective bargaining agreem
ent that included the top-up because Treasury™s consent was required under the TARP loan agreement and Treasury 

was the purchaser in bankruptcy.  The decision that New GM would honor the top-up was a joint decision by Treasury and GM with Treasury deciding to approve the collective bargaining agreemen
t with the UAW that included the top-
up.   
 
Even though the top-up was never discussed in the negotiations with the UAW, it became a foregone conclusion that it 
would be included in the new UAW 
collective bargaining agreement.  Auto T
eam leader Rattner told SIGTARP that 
GM had the option of honoring or not honoring its pension benefit guarantees in bankruptcy, but GM needed UAW worker
s and UAW™s consent was necessary 
for the bankruptcy.  Auto Team leader 
Rattner and another Auto Team official 
told SIGTARP that, because the UAW included the top-up on their list, it was clear that the UAW expected the top-up to 
be part of the overall deal.  Treasury had the power to object to New GM taking on the top-up obligation as part of the larger agreement with the UAW, but had no 
desire to blow up the larger deal.  Although the Auto Team was concerned about the threat of the strike, they were also concerned with the UAW prolonging the bankruptcy.  An Auto Team official 
told SIGTARP that not having an agreement with UAW would have been like 
ﬁshooting yourself in the head,ﬂ adding that it could have resulted in the liquidation of GM.  Auto Team leader Ra
ttner told SIGTARP that getting more on pensions ﬁwas a game of chicken we 
didn™t want to play.  We were under 
incredible time pressure.ﬂ  Auto Team 
leader Rattner told SIGTARP, ﬁIt was not a ridiculous request.  And one that we 
could have honored and needed to honor.ﬂ  
Then-GM CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that the pressure to finish the 

negotiations resulted in no negotiation on the top-up, and although GM knew about the top-up, ﬁthe focus was on getting the deal done.ﬂ  CEO Henderson told 
SIGTARP that renegotiating the pensions 
in bankruptcy would have taken a long                                                  44 According to the UAW, it made a number
 of concessions in the negotiation including:  elimination of performance 
bonuses and cost of living adjustments, reduced holidays, scaled-back overtime rules, and frozen wages for new entry 
employees.  GM would be allowed to use stock to replace debt 
for the VEBA health care trust, and other concessions.   
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
39   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
time Œ a risk that GM did not believe it co
uld afford to take because Treasury had given no indication that it would extend financing beyond 40 days.  CEO Henderson told SIGTARP that if the pension benefit guarantee with the UAW 
was not assumed by GM, it would ha
ve been ﬁmission impossible.ﬂ 
 
Treasury™s Auto Team and GM did not ag
ree to top up the pensions of other former GM employees at Delphi, which 
did not have active employees at GM, and therefore had no leverage to hold up GM™s bankruptcy.  This included Delphi employees who were paid a salary and employees who were paid an hourly wage 

who were members of the IUE and USW 
unions.  These two groups of employees had pension plans that had become un
derfunded.  Although the hourly employees 
at these unions had a preexisting top-up agreement, there were no discussions 
regarding the top-up agreement with GM and these unions prior to GM™s 
bankruptcy.  Although in GM™s bankruptcy New GM did not assume the other 
top-up agreements with Delphi IUE a
nd USW employees because those unions 
did not have leverage, subsequently New GM agreed to top up the smaller unions 
because of the leverage those unions had to
 prolong Delphi™s ba
nkruptcy or strike, 
which GM believed would significantly impact its ability to survive.
45    
Delphi™s salaried retirees had no leverage, other than what they hoped would be political leverage and that Treasury, as a Government agency, would provide 
them with a top-up.  The Delphi salaried
 employees were not represented when 
Delphi was spun off.  GM had fully funded (at 123%) the expected payments 
needed to cover the salaried employees™ 
pension plan at the time of Delphi™s 
spinoff and there was no top-up agreement 
in place.  They did not have active employees at GM and were not creditors 
in GM™s bankruptcy.  They sought to use their only tool, political pressure, to improve their positi
on in the hopes that Treasury would provide them with th
e same treatment as Delphi UAW 
employees.  GM officials took the positi
on with PBGC and De
lphi, and confirmed 
in SIGTARP interviews, that GM did not believe it had the ability to provide a 

top-up for the salaried employees on its own because the TARP loan agreement 
prohibited GM from increasing pension bene
fits without Treasury™s consent.  The cost was also over the $100 million thre
shold requiring Treasury™s consent.  
According to a Treasury document, it was es
timated that Delphi salaried retirees™ 
would lose approximately $440 million in 
pension benefits.  A top-up would be 
expected to cost an 
equivalent amount.   
                                                  45 The interconnectedness of Delphi to GM provided the IUE and USW hourly employees leverage in Delphi™s 
bankruptcy where these employees filed 
objections to the bankruptcy and threatened to strike.  New GM began 
negotiations with the IUE and USW shortly after its emerge
nce from GM™s bankruptcy in an effort to resolve 
remaining issues.  As part of a larger settlement, New GM agreed to top up the pensions of these workers at an 

estimated cost of $350 million.  GM executives believed that
 a shutdown at Delphi could shut GM down.  Given that 
these negotiations took place after New GM emerged from GM
™s bankruptcy and the Auto Team was disbanding, the 
Auto Team was not involved in the same way they had been leading up to and through the bankruptcy.  According to 

then-CEO Henderson, GM did not seek
 Treasury™s consent because the TARP
 loan agreement prohibiting GM from 
taking on new pension liabilities was between Treasury and Old GM, not New GM. 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
40   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Ultimately, GM did not fail and the broa
der systemic consequences of a GM 
failure that Treasury had feared were avoi
ded.  There are two important lessons to 
be learned from the role that Tr
easury™s Auto Team played.    
First, the Auto Team™s deep involve
ment and significant influence on GM™s 
decisions leading up to and through GM™s bankruptcy led to expectations that Treasury would not act as a private investor, but as the Government.  PBGC had 
an expectation that decisions on what obligations GM would take on related to the Delphi pensions would proceed differe
ntly than what might have normally 
occurred, and could potentially have saved PBGC billions of dollars with 

Treasury involved.  Also contributing to this expectation was the fact that the 
Auto Team negotiated with 
PBGC on behalf of GM related to what GM would pay on the pensions.  Delphi and its workers, who had been former GM 
employees, also had the expectation that 
the Government would ensure that GM 
treat the pensions of all former GM employ
ees at Delphi the same
 out of fairness.  Also contributing to this expectation was the fact that TARP funds were being used, and that GM had taken the position with Delphi (and PBGC) that taking on 
additional pension obligations violated the TARP loan agreement and required 
Treasury™s consent.  A PBGC document stated that Delphi 
believed GM may be 
looking to the ﬁcar czarﬂ to mandate that GM
 assume Delphi pensions as part of 
GM™s use of TARP funds.  One former 
Delphi salaried employee told SIGTARP 
that Treasury ﬁcannot throw off the mantle
 of Government and make themselves 
into a commercial enterpriseﬂ and ﬁit is wrong of our Government to take funds 
from everyone and give it to the few.ﬂ  
However, Auto Team officials attempted 
to view top-ups as a private investor.  An Auto Team official told SIGTARP that 
the Government could not make everyone
 whole, saying, ﬁI don™t think that anybody thinks bankruptcy is fair.ﬂ    
Treasury™s Auto Team did not always act as
 a private investor and at times acted 
as the Government to prevent GM fr
om failing, concerned about financial stability in the auto industry.  Although the Auto Team tried to view issues 
through a ﬁcommercially reasonableﬂ lens li
ke a private investor, they often did not act as a private investor, nor should they have.  W
ithout policies or procedures to define commercial reasonableness, Treasury used commercial reasonableness 
as a justification for all of its actions
, even when those actions were based on other concerns.  For example, Treasury decided not to move GM™s headquarters 
to save costs out of concerns over the impact on the city of Detroit.  Treasury made other decisions based on broader c
oncerns about the interconnectedness of the auto industry.  No private investor holds the responsibility Treasury has to protect taxpayers and to promote financ
ial stability in th
e economy.  Treasury 
made the TARP injections in GM when, according to GM™s then CFO, no other 

private investor would lend or invest the money that GM needed.  Concerned that 
the TARP loans would be too much debt
 on GM™s balance sheet, Treasury funded GM™s bankruptcy and converted what would be higher priority debt to a lower priority equity ownership in New GM and, according to GM, paid more than 

GM™s ﬁEnterprise Value.ﬂ  Treasury™s Auto Team took these actions based on   TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
41   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
concerns of the consequences of a GM failure on other companies in the 
American automotive industry, concerns not
 held by private investors.  Even 
though Treasury, through the Auto Team, trie
d to act as a private investor, they had considerations that no private investor would ever have had, blurring the lines between Treasury™s role as the i
nvestor and as the Government.   
 
Second, the additional leverage Treasury gave to certain stakeholders, such as the UAW, contributed to criticism of the disp
arate treatment between Delphi salaried 
and union employees.  One Auto Team offici
al told SIGTARP that the strength of 
the negotiating parties was dictated by the leverage they held, but SIGTARP found that additional leverage was given by Treasury.  The Auto Team 

established a hierarchy of im
portance of stakeholders and issues that Auto Team 
officials believed had to be completed prio
r to GM™s bankruptcy filing to ensure a successful quick-rinse bankruptcy that would be completed in 40 days.  Treasury 
did not view the non-UAW Delphi hourly employees or the Delphi salaried 
employees as having leverage because they did not have current employees at GM 

and therefore could not hold up GM™s bankruptcy.   
 
Two liabilities that the Auto Team had al
ready decided to assume in bankruptcy 
were a new agreement with the UAW and an agreement with the bondholders.  

The UAW had leverage because it knew a
nd understood from Treasury that it was 
committed to reorganize GM and not let GM fail.  Moreover, Treasury™s 40-day 

bankruptcy condition gave the UAW and bondholders additional leverage to threaten to hold up GM™s bankruptcy.  They may have been able to obtain more 
concessions than in a traditional bankrupt
cy where the issues may be litigated.  
An Auto Team official told SIGTARP, ﬁW
e had to negotiate a deal that the UAW 
and bondholders would accept.ﬂ  With Treas
ury™s dictate of a 40-day bankruptcy 
and no indication that Treasury would extend that timeframe, GM officials were 
under pressure, believing they had to reach agreements with the bondholders and 

UAW prior to a June 1 bankruptcy filing or risk losing Treasury™s funding and liquidating. 
 
It is very difficult for Treasury to act as 
only a private investor and still fulfill its 
greater governmental responsibilities.  Tr
easury entered the TARP investments as 
the Government, and must continue to 
act as the Government the whole time it 
holds these investments, protecting taxpayers™ investment and fulfilling 

Treasury™s responsibility to promote fi
nancial stability in the economy.  An 
important lesson Government officials 
should learn from the Government™s 
unprecedented TARP intervention into privat
e companies is that the actions and 
decisions taken must represent the over
arching responsibilities the Government 
owes to the American public.   
    TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
42   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Management Comments and SIGTARP™s 

Response  Treasury provided an official written response in a letter dated August 9, 2013. (Full text in Appendix D).  In its response, Treasury noted: (1) that the decision to top up pensions of certain hourly Delphi retirees, but not for salaried Delphi retirees, had sound commercial reasons; (2) 
that Treasury does not believe that the facts support the conclusions regarding the decision-making process and Treasury 

states that the report is based on intervie
ws of the former Treasury [Auto Team] 
officials done without Treasury being present; and (3) Treasury was not given the executive summary of the report and therefore Treasury does not think they 
received the full draft report prior to publication. 
 The report highlights the multiple factors which affected the decision-making 

process leading up to and through the GM bankruptcy and Treasury™s role in the decision to top up certain Delphi retirees.  As the report makes clear, the 

consideration of commercial reasonab
leness was only one factor driving the decisions.  The report™s conclusions are 
well-supported.  SIGTARP has a rigorous 
quality control system designed to ensure
 that audits are performed and reports 
are issued in accordance with professi
onal standards and legal and regulatory 
requirements.  SIGTARP™s system of quality control was recently reviewed as 

part of the Council of the Inspectors Gene
ral on Integrity and Efficiency external peer review program and assigned th
e highest rating.  SIGTARP provided Treasury with a complete draft of th
e report including the conclusion.  The executive summary is typically drafted after receiving Treasury™s response, and is a summary of the conclusion provided to
 Treasury, with no new information.  
Therefore, Treasury was missing no in
formation in the report.     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
43   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Appendix A Œ Objectives, Scope, and Methodology 
 
SIGTARP performed this audit under the authorit
y of Public Law 110-343, as amended, which also 
incorporates the duties and responsibilities of inspectors general under the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended.  We initiated this audit as part
 of our continuing oversight of TARP and in response to a request from former
 Congressman Christopher J. Lee 
in a letter dated August 3, 2010.  
We later received an additional request to conduct
 the audit by Congressman Michael R. Turner on 
March 3, 2011.  The requesters asked SIGTARP to conduct a review related to GM™s decision to top up certain Delphi hourly retirees™ pension benefits.  In response, the audit™s objectives were to review: 
 
 Treasury™s role in the decision for GM to top up the pension plan; and 
 whether the Administration or th
e Auto Task Force pressured GM to provide additional funding for the plan.   
 The audit engagement was announced in Novemb
er 2010 and we conducted our audit work from 
December 2010 through August 2013 in Washington, D.
C., New York, N.Y., San Antonio, Texas, Chicago, Ill., Pittsburgh, Pa., and Detroit, Mich. 
 This audit was conducted in coordination with 
GAO to avoid excessive duplication of efforts.  
GAO reviewed PBGC™s termination of Delphi™s 
hourly and salaried pension plans and other PBGC issues.  The objectives of SIGTARP™s audit did 
not involve a review of PBGC™s termin
ation of the Delphi pension plans.  
SIGTARP interviewed current and fo
rmer officials from GM, Delphi
, UAW, IUE, USW, the Delphi 
Salaried Retirees Association, PBGC, and Treasury.  In addition to testimonial evidence, SIGTARP 
reviewed documents concerning the Auto Team, 
GM, Delphi, UAW, IUE, USW, PBGC, and the 
Administration, including emails, contracts, cale
ndar appointments, letters,  memorandums, written 
policies, procedures, guiding principles, press releases, public announcements, and written analyses.  SIGTARP also reviewed court documents, includi
ng depositions and motions, filed in the GM and 
Delphi bankruptcies and in litigation brought by the Delphi Sala
ried Retirees Association.   
SIGTARP makes no recommendations in this report.
  Although Treasury remains invested in GM, 
and TARP™s Automotive Industry Financing Progra
m is ongoing, the subject 
matter of this report 
concerns specific actions taken by Treasury™s Au
to Team during 2008 and 2009 that are unlikely to 
occur again because the Auto Team disbanded. 

 
SIGTARP conducted this audit in accordance 
with generally accepted government auditing 
standards as prescribed by the Comptroller Genera
l of the United States.  Those standards require 
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable 
basis for findings and conclusions based on the audit objectives.  SIGTARP believes that the 
evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for 
the findings and conclusions based on the audit objectives. 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
44   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Limitations on Data SIGTARP generally relied upon Treasury to identify and provide relevant documentation, including 
email communications and other Trea
sury records.  To the extent 
that the documentation provided to 
SIGTARP by Treasury did not reflect a compre
hensive response to SIGTARP™s documentation requests, SIGTARP™s review may have been limited.   

 Use of Computer-Processed Data 
SIGTARP did not use any computer-proce
ssed data to complete this audit. 
 Internal Controls 
SIGTARP did not perform an assessment of internal
 controls because such an assessment was not 
relevant to accomplishing the audit™s objectives. 

 Prior Coverage SIGTARP previously performed an audit relate
d to Treasury™s Automo
tive Industry Financing 
Program and GM™s restructuring, titled ﬁFactors 
Affecting the Decisions of General Motors and Chrysler to Reduce Their Dealership Networks.ﬂ
46  The audit reviewed, amo
ng other things, the role the Auto Team played in GM and Chrysler™s de
cision-making process regarding auto dealership 
closings. 
 
GAO has issued two related reports.  In March 2011, GAO issued a report outlining the timeline 
leading to the Delphi pension top-ups and in November 2011 GAO issued a testimony statement 
based on the March 2011 timeline.
47  In December 2011, GAO issued a report that addressed 
PBGC™s termination of Delphi™s ho
urly and salaried pension plans.48  In July 2012, GAO issued an additional testimony statement.
49   
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                   46 SIGTARP-10-008, ﬁFactors Aff
ecting the Decisions of General Motors an
d Chrysler to Reduce Their Dealership 
Networks,ﬂ 7/19/2010. 
47 GAO-11-373R, ﬁKey Events Leading to the Termination of the Delphi Defined Benefit Plans,ﬂ 3/30/2011.  GAO also 
published a testimony based on its March 2011 report, GAO-12-234T. 
48 GAO-12-168, ﬁGM Agreements with Unions Give Rise to Un
ique Differences in Particip
ant Benefits,ﬂ 12/15/2011. 
49 GAO also published a testimony ba
sed on its March 2011 and Decem
ber 2011 reports, GAO-12-909T. 
  TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
45   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Appendix B Œ Acronyms and Abbreviations 
 Acronym or Definition 
Abbreviation 
 
Auto Task Force Presidential Ta
sk Force on the Auto Industry Auto Team a group of Treasury officials res
ponsible for overseeing GM™s restructuring,  who reported to the Auto Task Force CEO chief executive officer 

CFO chief financial officer 

Chrysler Chrysler Group LLC 

COO chief operating officer 

Delphi Delphi Corporation  

DIP debtor in possession 

GAO Government Accountability Office 

GM General Motors Corporation  

IUE International Union of Electronic,
 Electrical, Salaried, Machine and 
Furniture Workers 
New GM General Motors Company Œ name 
of the company after GM™s bankruptcy  
was completed in July 2009 
Old GM General Motors Corporation  

PBGC Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation 

SIGTARP Office of the Special Inspector 
General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program TARP Troubled Asset Relief Program 

TARP loan agreement Treasury™s 
Loan and Security Agreement  
Treasury U.S. Departme
nt of the Treasury UAW International Union, United Automo
bile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America 
USW United Steelworkers of America 

VEBA Voluntary Employee Bene
ficiary Association plan   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
46   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Appendix C Œ Audit Team Members 
 This audit was conducted and the report was prepared under the direction of Bruce S. Gimbel, Acting 
Assistant Deputy Special Inspector General for Audit and Evaluation, Office of the Special Inspector 
General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program. 

 
Staff members who conducted the a
udit and contributed to the report include Simon Galed, Jonathan 
Lebruto, Eric Mader, John Poirier, and Samuel Withers. 

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
47   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
Appendix D Œ Management Comments     TREASURY™S ROLE IN THE DECISION FOR GM TO PROVIDE PENSION PAYMENTS TO DELPHI EMPLOYEES 
48   SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
     SIGTARP 13-003   August 15, 2013 
SIGTARP Hotline 
If you are aware of fraud, waste, abuse, mismanagement, or misrepresentations associated with the Troubled 
Asset Relief Program, please contact the SIGTARP Hotline. 
By UOnline FormU:   Uwww.SIGTARP.govU        By Phone:  Call toll free: (877) SIG-2009 By Fax: (202) 622-4559 
By Mail: 
Hotline: Office of the Special Inspector General
 for the Troubled Asset Relief Program 1801 L Street., NW, 3rd Floor Washington, D.C. 20220  Press Inquiries  If you have any inquiries, please contact our Press Office:  
Troy Gravitt 
Director of Communications 
Troy.Gravitt@treasury.gov
 202-927-8940  Legislative Affairs  
For Congressional inquiries, please contact our Legislative Affairs Office:  
Joseph Cwiklinski 
Director of Legislative Affairs 

Joseph.Cwiklinski@treasury.gov 202-927-9159  Obtaining Copies of Testimony and Reports  To obtain copies of testimony and reports, please log on to our website at 
Uwww.SIGTARP.gov
U.  
 
 
 
   
     