In many countries and regions, we work with independent, third-party fact-checking organizations who are certified through the non-partisan International Fact-Checking Network (IFCN) to identify, review and take action on this content.
 Read more about our partnerships here and learn about the elements of our program below.Rating Options for Fact-CheckersProgram PoliciesFacebook's Enforcement of Fact-Checker RatingsIssue a Correction or Dispute a RatingThe focus of this fact-checking program is identifying and addressing viral misinformation, particularly clear hoaxes that have no basis in fact.
 Fact-checking partners prioritize provably false claims, especially those that are timely or trending and important to the average person.Fact-checking partners do not prioritize claims that are inconsequential or consist of minor inaccuracies.
 Additionally, the program is not meant to interfere with individual expression, opinions and debate, clearly satirical or humorous content, or business disputes.How the program worksOur program includes several key steps:Identifying false news: We identify potential misinformation using signals, like feedback from people on Facebook, and surface the content to fact-checkers.
 Fact-checkers may also identify content to review on their own.Reviewing content: Fact-checkers will review content, check its facts, and rate its accuracy.
 This happens independently from Facebook, and may include calling sources, consulting public data, authenticating videos and images, and more.Clearly labeling misinformation, and informing users about it: We apply a label to content that’s been reviewed by fact-checking partners, so people can read additional context.
 We also notify people before they try to share this content, and people who have shared it in the past.Ensuring that fewer people see misinformation: Once a fact-checker rates a piece of content as False, Altered or Partly False, it will appear lower in News Feed, be filtered out of Explore on Instagram, and be featured less prominently in Feed and Stories.
 This significantly reduces the number of people who see it.
 We also reject ads with content that has been rated by fact-checkers.Taking action against repeat offenders: Pages and websites that repeatedly share misinformation rated False or Altered will have some restrictions, including having their distribution reduced.
 They may also have their ability to monetize and advertise removed, and their ability to register as a news Page removed for a given time period.
 Read on for FAQs and more details about the impact of each rating.
 Rating Options for Fact-CheckersProgram PoliciesFacebook's Enforcement of Fact-Checker RatingsIssue a Correction or Dispute a RatingPermalink · ShareWas this information helpful?YesNoCOVID-19 resources: We're here to help your business during the coronavirus outbreak.Get resources and support for your business.
 Learn more.View top help articles during the COVID-19 pandemic.
 Learn more.Back to HomeFacebook can help your large, medium or small business grow.
 You can review your cookie controls at any time.
 You have a number of choices using the tools described below.
 Some cookies are required in order to use Facebook.
 One of the ways Audience Network shows relevant ads is by using your ad preferences to determine which ads you may be interested in seeing.
 This helps us do things such as give you a more personalised experience on Facebook.
 As of 5 October 2020, you may find additional information about the controls offered by popular browsers at the links below.
 Certain parts of Facebook Products may not work properly if you have disabled browser cookies.
