Skip to main content        The New York State Senate  login                                                      former new york state senator Chris Jacobs       Served from 2017 until 2020            find your senator                    Jacobs Responds to Democrat’s Proposed Sick Leave Legislation  Chris Jacobs March 17, 2020      ISSUE:     Coronavirus; COVID-19     press_statement_-_jacobs_responds_to_democrats_proposed_sick_leave_legislation_031720.pdf                           New York State Senator Chris Jacobs (60th SD), issued the following statement regarding the New York State Senate Democrat majority conference’s coronavirus paid sick leave proposal.
 Senator Chris Jacobs: “When our Nation faces a crisis like what we are experiencing with the Corona Virus, we should check politics at the door and all work together.
 We are all aware of the distress our small businesses are facing amidst this turmoil, that is why I looked forward to going to Albany tomorrow to vote for financial assistance for our small businesses and their employees throughout New York State.
 However, I am deeply disappointed by what the Democrat majority is proposing.
 Leave it to the downstate Democrats who control the legislature to politicize the Corona Virus by inserting into this aid package a massive new government program and new burden on New York businesses that will significantly raise costs starting in 2021.
 These new requirements would mandate small businesses grant paid leave for employees for an extremely broad swath of activities not at all related to being sick, such as ‘immigration’ and to ‘prepare for or participate in any criminal or civil proceeding.’ The COVID-19 crisis will bring many small businesses to their knees.
 The last thing they need is to worry about future regulations and costs imposed on them by New York State Government.
 That is why this legislation is strongly opposed by the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB) which represents over 11,000 small businesses in the state.
 The Democratic leadership in Albany should narrow the scope of this bill and get back to what our immediate priority should be - providing immediate coronavirus aid by utilizing existing family leave and disability programs to help small businesses and their employees during this crisis.
 This crisis is far too serious to try to exploit it to move political agendas.”     share this press release  facebook twitter email         Newsroom Go to Newsroom      Honoree Profile 2020 Women of Distinction   Anne D. Gioia August 26, 2020                  Press Release privacy and data security   Jacobs Sponsors Data Security Legislation For All State Issued Devices June 22, 2020       Press Release 2020 Veterans Hall of Fame, Honoring Veterans, New York State Veterans Hall of Fame, Vietnam War veterans   Jacobs Honors 2020 Veterans Hall of Fame Inductee John "Jack" O'Connor June 19, 2020                See More News        Promotional Banners    2020 Women of Distinction Honoree   Read More      Coronavirus Response and Prevention   Read More      Senator Jacobs' Unemployment Survey   Take the Questionnaire      2019-2020 Legislative Questionnaire   Take the Questionnaire                    go to nysenate.gov      About Newsroom Legislation Events Contact             Accessibility Statement Contact the Senate Creative Commons Developers Home Rule Form Policies &amp; Waivers Privacy Policy Terms of Participation           document.createElement( "picture" );    // close script tag for SecKit protection   //--&gt;             Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website.
