News  News Crime and Public Safety Investigative Reporting Politics Health Environment Business Housing Jobs   Local News  Local News San Bernardino Inland Empire High Desert San Bernardino County Los Angeles County   Sports  Sports IE Varsity Chargers Rams Lakers Clippers Dodgers Angels College Sports UCLA USC Kings Ducks Boxing/MMA Soccer   Things to do  Things to do Restaurants Food and Drink Casinos Amusement Parks Movies Music + Concerts Theater TV and Streaming Home + Garden Travel Comics Puzzles   Obituaries  Obituaries Place an Obituary   Opinion  Opinion Endorsements   Subscribe Log In        						GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER.
 CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS.
 (John Valenzuela/Staff Photographer)		  By Melissa Pinion-Whitt | Melissa.Pinion-Whitt@inlandnewspapers.com | November 13, 2013 at 12:00 a.m.VICTORVILLE &gt;&gt; Coroner’s officials now face a complicated process in identifying the skeletal remains found in graves outside Victorville, one that can take weeks or months.
 Forensic anthropologists can establish age, gender and even ethnicity based on the bones found.
 “It could be a few days, to weeks, if not longer,” said David Lord, emeritus professor of anthropology at Cal Poly Pomona.
 Discovering the actual name of the person and the cause of death can be even trickier.
 Lord said wisdom teeth appear when someone is about 20 to 25 years old.
 Dental records, if they’re available, are often used to identify a body.
 The jaw also helps establish gender.
 The jaw of a woman tends to be pointed, while a man’s is usually flat across the chin area, Lord said.
 Pelvic bones can help examiners determine sex, and if the remains belonged to a woman, whether she has ever given birth.
 A bone called the epiphysis, which is detached from long bones in children, fuses with them in adulthood.
 But the shape of the jaw and skull are often examined to help determine this.
 Establishing how long someone has been dead also depends on many factors.
 “It depends on how the body is disposed of, if its a surface dump, whether it’s a shallow grave, a deep grave, what the climate is, what kinds of activities there might be from animals or water or tree roots,” Lord said.
 And without flesh, it could take a long time to determine how someone died.
 “Cause of death is a tricky one because not everything leaves evidence,” Lord said.
