COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONSJOHN F. KERRY, Massachusetts, ChairmanCHRISTOPHER J. DODD, Connecticut RUSSELL D. FEINGOLD, Wisconsin 
BARBARA BOXER, California 
ROBERT MENENDEZ, New Jersey 
BENJAMIN L. CARDIN, Maryland 
ROBERT P. CASEY, JR., Pennsylvania JIM WEBB, Virginia 
JEANNE SHAHEEN, New Hampshire 
EDWARD E. KAUFMAN, Delaware 
KIRSTEN E. GILLIBRAND, New York RICHARD G. LUGAR, Indiana BOB CORKER, Tennessee 
JOHNNY ISAKSON, Georgia 
JAMES E. RISCH, Idaho 
JIM DEMINT, South Carolina JOHN BARRASSO, Wyoming 
ROGER F. WICKER, Mississippi 
JAMES M. INHOFE, Oklahoma FRANKG. LOWENSTEIN, Staff DirectorKENNETHA. MYERS, JR., Republican Staff Director(II)VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00002Fmt 5904Sfmt 5904H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 CONTENTS 
Page Letter of Transmittal ...............................................................................................v 
Executive Summary .................................................................................................1 

1. Introduction .........................................................................................................3 

2. Background ..........................................................................................................3 

3. Opposition in Congress Persists .........................................................................4 

4. Problems Began Almost Immediately After Creation ......................................5 
Adhering to Journalistic Standards ................................................................5 

Audience Size ....................................................................................................7 

Cuban Government Jamming ..........................................................................10 
5. OCB Management Also Dealing with Other Problems ....................................11 

6. Recommendations ................................................................................................12 

How Radio and TV Marti Broadcast ......................................................................14 

Appendix: Broadcasting Board of Governors Organizational Chart ...................15 
VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00003Fmt 5905Sfmt 5905H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00004Fmt 5905Sfmt 5905H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL UNITEDSTATESSENATE, COMMITTEEON
FOREIGNRELATIONS, Washington, DC, April 19, 2010. DEARCOLLEAGUE
: This report by the committee majority staff is part of our ongoing examination into the efficacy of Radio and TV 
Marti. Radio Marti was created in 1983 to support the Cuban peo-
ple in their quest for ‚‚accurate, unbiased, and consistently reliable™™ 
news and entertainment; TV Marti followed in 1990. Unfortu-
nately, listeners and viewers never received the kind of high qual-
ity programming that was originally intended. Problems with ad-
herence to traditional journalistic standards, miniscule audience 
size, Cuban Government jamming, and allegations of cronyism 
have dogged the program since its creation. As a result, Congress 
has reduced TV Marti™s funding and has strongly encouraged Radio 
Marti to ensure that its broadcasts adhere to journalistic standards 
practiced by the Voice of America. Indeed, this report goes further, 
and recommends that the Office of Cuba Broadcasting be incor-
porated into the Voice of America. This report is based on extensive staff interviews with Radio and TV Marti officials, as well as officials of the International Broad-
casting Bureau and the Broadcasting Board of Governors. It also 
relies on comprehensive investigative reports published by the U.S. 
Government Accountability Office. JOHNF. KERRY, Chairman. (V) VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00005Fmt 6601Sfmt 6601H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00006Fmt 6601Sfmt 6601H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 (1) CUBA: IMMEDIATE ACTION IS NEEDED TO ENSURE THE SURVIVABILITY OF RADIO AND TV MARTI EXECUTIVESUMMARY Radio and TV Marti, the U.S. Government™s broadcasters to Cuba, continue to fail in their efforts to influence Cuban society, pol-
itics, and policy. Radio Marti was created in 1983 as a U.S. program to support the right of the Cuban people to seek, receive, and impart informa-tion and ideas; to further the open communication of information 
and ideas to Cuba; to serve as a consistently reliable and authori-
tative source of news to Cuba; and to provide news and com-
mentary about events inside Cuba. TV Marti, created in 1990, 
sought to expand those goals with television programming related 
to Cuba. Both outlets are located in Miami. Radio and TV Marti have failed to make any discernable inroads into Cuban society or to influence the Cuban Government. This 
failure has led to recent congressional action to reduce funding for 
TV Marti. In the FY 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Bill, the 
Senate approved a measure to strip TV Marti of approximately $4 
million in funding, in addition to a reduction requested by the 
President, and it ordered the Office of Cuba Broadcasting (OCB), 
the entity that runs Radio and TV Marti, to spend not more than 
$5.5 million for items other than salaries and benefits, a move that 
would effectively end funding for the airplane that TV Marti uses 
for much of its broadcasting. This is not the first congressional at-
tempt to strip Radio and TV Marti of funding. Previous attempts 
have been for reasons that have remained consistent over time. 
They include: The most commonly heard complaint is that OCB has failed to adhere to generally accepted journalistic stand-
ards. Both internal and external investigations have criti-
cized OCB for broadcasting unsubstantiated reports from 
Cuba as legitimate news stories, for using offensive and in-
cendiary language in news broadcasts, and for a lack of 
timeliness in news reporting. While there are no nationally representative data, most available research indicates that Radio and TV Marti™s au-
diences are miniscule. U.S. Government-sponsored re-
search groups indicate that Radio Marti has a listenership 
of less than 2 percent of Cubans, and claims that TV Marti 
has any stable viewership are suspect. Most observers at-
tribute these low levels to pervasive Cuban Government VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00007Fmt 6633Sfmt 6633H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 2 jamming of Radio and TV Marti broadcasts. But inter-views with recently arrived Cuban immigrants show that 
among those who were familiar with the broadcasts, only 
a small minority thought they were ‚‚objective.The Cuban Government employs an extensive jamming system against Radio Marti transmissions on both short-
wave and medium wave. OCB officials concede that the 
jamming is largely successful, with only areas outside met-
ropolitan Havana able to receive Radio Marti™s signal. TV 
Marti™s ‚‚over the air™™ broadcasts are similarly jammed. OCB also must deal with competition from domestic Cuban radio and television stations. In recent surveys, 
more than 90 percent of Cuban respondents said they lis-
tened to Cuban radio stations and watched Cuban tele-
vision stations. OCB officials concede that the quality of 
Cuban programming has improved recently, with local tel-
evision carrying U.S. programs like ‚‚Grey™s Anatomy,™™ 
‚‚Friends,™™ and ‚‚The Sopranos.™™ Cuban TV also carries 
CNN en EspanŸol, which many Cubans watch for world news. Finally, allegations of cronyism and malfeasance con-tinue to haunt OCB. Critics maintain that many senior- 
level OCB officials were granted their positions because of 
their personal connections within OCB, rather than be-
cause of specific qualifications for the job. For example, the 
director of the Voice of America™s Latin American service 
is a nephew of the OCB director and is himself a former 
OCB official. Furthermore, in 2007, the former director of 
programming for TV Marti pleaded guilty to receiving 
nearly $112,000 in kickbacks from a vendor contracted by 
OCB. These allegations of nepotism and corruption have 
harmed morale and led to questions about management™s 
transparency. There are several things that OCB can do to improve program-ming, operations, and morale. OCB™s parent organization already 
has mandated closer cooperation between OCB and the Voice of 
America. This cooperation brings OCB and VOA broadcasters to-
gether to coproduce news programs and a regular half-hour radio 
show called ‚‚A Fondo,™™ or ‚‚In Depth,™™ which provides news and 
analysis. Unfortunately, however, the moves have been from VOA 
to OCB, rather than vice versa. OCB™s parent organization should consider moving OCB to Wash-ington and subordinating it into the Voice of America. This could 
help ensure that programming is up to VOA standards. In the 
meantime, OCB should ‚‚return to basics™™ to clean up its operation. 
It must attract quality talent from outside Miami, implement qual-
ity editorial standards, and attract quality management. Hiring 
and training must be overhauled to ensure a de-politicized and pro-
fessional workforce. OCB should focus on quality programming, which will cause in-terested Cubans to seek out available broadcasts, whether over the 
air, or, if their access to technology permits, via satellite and the 
internet. VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00008Fmt 6633Sfmt 6633H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 3 1The International Broadcasting Bureau oversees VOA and OCB and provides transmission services, administration, and marketing for all broadcasters that fall under the jurisdiction of 
the Broadcasting Board of Governors. These include Voice of America, Radio Free Europe/Radio 
Liberty, Radio Free Asia, Radio Marti, TV Marti, Radio Sawa, and Alhurra Television. See the Appendix for an organizational chart of the IBB structure. OCB™s parent organization should enhance guidance, training, and oversight for analysts performing OCB program reviews, and 
provide regular, ongoing, and comprehensive training to OCB staff 
regarding journalistic standards. To address chronic management issues, it is important to have processes in place to enable the efficient and effective operation of 
OCB. Finally, to improve morale within the organization, OCB 
management should take steps to address persistent concerns with 
its communication and interaction with OCB staff. 1. INTRODUCTION The U.S. Government began broadcasting Radio Marti to Cuba in 1985 and added television broadcasts with TV Marti in 1990. 
The goals of Radio and TV Marti are, according to the Inter-
national Broadcasting Bureau (IBB),1to 1) support the right of the Cuban people to seek, receive, and impart information and ideas 
through any media and regardless of frontiers; 2) to be effective in 
furthering the open communication of information and ideas 
through the use of radio and television broadcasting to Cuba; 3) to 
serve as a consistently reliable and authoritative source of accu-
rate, objective, and comprehensive news; and 4) to provide news, 
commentary, and other information about events in Cuba and else-
where to promote the cause of freedom in Cuba. 2. BACKGROUND In 1983, Congress passed the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act to provide the people of Cuba, through Radio Marti, with information 
they ordinarily would not receive due to the censorship practices of 
the Cuban Government. Subsequently, in 1990, TV Marti began 
television broadcasts to Cuba. Until October 1999, U.S. Government-funded international broadcasting programs had been a primary function of the United 
States Information Agency (USIA). When USIA was abolished and 
its public diplomacy functions were merged with the Department 
of State at the beginning of FY 2000, the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors (BBG) became an independent agency to oversee such 
entities as the Voice of America (VOA), Radio Free Europe/Radio 
Liberty (RFE/RL), Radio Free Asia, and the Office of Cuba Broad-
casting (OCB), which manages Radio and TV Marti. OCB is head-
quartered in Miami. Legislation in the 104th Congress required the 
relocation of OCB from Washington to south Florida so that Radio 
and TV Marti could be more easily immersed in Miami™s Cuban 
community. The move began in 1996 and was completed in 1998. In October 2003, President George W. Bush established the Com-mission for Assistance to a Free Cuba (CAFC) to identify measures 
to accelerate an end to the Castro government and to support U.S. 
programs that could assist in an ensuing transition. This commis-
sion published two interagency policy frameworks which identified 
measures to 1) empower Cuban civil society; 2) break the Cuban VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00009Fmt 6633Sfmt 6633H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 4 Government™s ‚‚information blockade™™; 3) deny resources to the Cuban Government; 4) ‚‚illuminate the reality of Castro™s Cuba™™; 5) 
encourage international efforts to support Cuban civil society; and 
6) undermine the regime™s ‚‚succession strategy.™™ In addition, State 
Department and OCB officials indicated that Radio and TV Marti 
could be important platforms for providing information to Cubans 
during any future government transition. OCB™s stated mission is to broadcast to Cuba the sorts of Span-ish-language programming available in an open society. In 2004, 
Radio Marti changed its programming from entertainment and news to an all-news format, and currently broadcasts news and in-
formation programming 6 days a week, 24 hours per day, and for 
18 hours on Sunday. Radio Marti™s daily programming consists of 
70 percent live news broadcasts and 30 percent recorded program-
ming. TV Marti broadcasts 2 live newscasts, sports and entertain-
ment, and special programming 24 hours per day. In October 2006, OCB launched AeroMarti to expand availability of TV Marti broadcasts in Cuba. AeroMarti consists of two Gulf-
stream propeller airplanes that OCB leases to broadcast television 
signals to Cuba from U.S. airspace off the coast of Florida. In De-
cember 2006, IBB leased airtime on TV Azteca, a commercial tele-
vision station in Miami that is carried on the DirecTV satellite sys-
tem, which is available to Cubans with a satellite card, although 
this is illegal in Cuba. Due in large part to the launch of AeroMarti, much of OCB™s FY 2008 $15.158 million budget for transmission costs is spent on TV 
Marti. In FY 2008, OCB spent over $6 million on AeroMarti, which 
included about $5 million for fuel, operation, and maintenance of 
the airplanes and about $1 million to equip one airplane with the 
ability to broadcast on VHF channel 13. 3. OPPOSITIONIN
CONGRESSPERSISTS Radio and TV Marti have received negligible support from among the Cuban people and have had almost no impact on Cuban Gov-
ernment behavior and policy. As a result, Congress has made sev-
eral attempts over the years to cut funding for the programs, espe-
cially for TV Marti. In addition to the programs™ ineffectiveness, in 
December 2006, press reports alleged significant problems in OCB™s 
operations, with claims of cronyism, patronage, and bias in its cov-
erage, issues that attracted further attention in Congress. Concerns about TV Marti continue to run so deep that in July 2009 the Senate Appropriations Committee approved a provision by 
Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) in the FY 2010 State, Foreign Oper-
ations and Related Programs Appropriations bill to further tighten 
funding for TV Marti. In its final version, the amendment cut ap-
proximately $4 million in funding in addition to the reduced appro-
priation requested by the President, and it ordered OCB to spend 
not more than $5.5 million for items other than salaries and bene-
fits. The intent was to end funding for AeroMarti. OCB officials 
maintain that the budget reduction will be devastating to both TV 
Marti and Radio Marti because many OCB employees are ‚‚dual- 
hatted™™ and would have to be let go in the absence of adequate 
funding for AeroMarti. VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00010Fmt 6633Sfmt 6633H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 5 OCB officials maintain that total FY 2010 costs for TV Marti are $12,025,910. They complain that they already must eliminate 35 
positions and $4.2 million as mandated in the FY 2010 budget re-
quest; a further $4 million cut, as called for by the Dorgan Amend-
ment, would require deep cuts beyond TV Marti. OCB officials 
argue that even if all of TV Marti™s 32 remaining employees are 
eliminated, this would achieve an additional savings of only about 
$1.3 million. 4. PROBLEMSBEGANALMOSTIMMEDIATELYAFTERCREATION From their inception, Radio and TV Marti have had several dif-ficult problems, including a lax adherence to generally accepted 
journalistic standards, reports of small audience size, and Cuban 
Government jamming of broadcast signals. Adhering to Journalistic Standards OCB™s failure over many years to adhere to generally accepted journalistic standards remains its most significant problem, and 
the grounds for most criticism leveled against it. These failures 
have been documented in the press, in a January 2009 report by 
the Government Accountability Office (GAO), and in IBB™s own in-
ternal evaluations. The 2009 GAO reportŠthe most recent of severalŠcriticized OCB for failing to maintain appropriate journalistic standards. In 
response, IBB and OCB took several steps to improve operations 
and to help ensure that U.S. broadcasting to Cuba adheres to do-
mestic and international broadcasting laws, agreements, and 
standards. It is too soon to assess whether these moves will have 
a significant impact over time. OCB has attempted a succession of 
such initiatives over the past 20 years with mixed results. The Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act and the TV Broadcasting to Cuba Act require Radio and TV Marti to adhere to VOA journal-
istic standards to ensure that their programming is accurate, bal-
anced, and objective. While IBB officials report that the quality of 
OCB programming has ‚‚improved slightly™™ in recent years, IBB™s 
internal, as well as external, reviews identified continuing prob-
lems with OCB broadcasters™ adherence to journalistic standards, 
particularly in the area of balance and objectivity. IBB program an-
alysts™ reviews from 2003 through 2008 repeatedly cite specific 
problems with the broadcasts, such as the presentation of indi-
vidual views as news, editorializing, and the use of inappropriate 
guests whose viewpoints represented a narrow segment of opinion. 
IBB reviews of Radio and TV Marti™s content identified other prob-lems, including placement of unsubstantiated reports coming from 
Cuba with news stories that had been verified by at least two rep-
utable sources; the use of offensive and incendiary language in 
broadcasts, which is explicitly prohibited by OCB™s editorial guide-
lines; and a lack of timeliness in news and current affairs report-
ing. External reviews of Radio and TV Marti™s broadcast content also identified problems regarding balance and objectivity. For example, 
the results of IBB monitoring panels from 2003 through 2007 
showed that the majority (9 of 13) of expert control listeners and 
viewers expressed concerns about the broadcasts™ balance and ob-VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00011Fmt 6633Sfmt 6633H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 6 jectivity. In addition, an OCB-commissioned survey of recent Cuban arrivals in 2007 showed that only 38 percent felt that TV 
Marti programming was ‚‚objective,™™ and only 29 percent of re-
spondents believed that Radio Marti™s news was ‚‚objective.™™ To help improve adherence to journalistic standards, in 2007, the director of OCB issued a memorandum to managers requiring them 
to certify that they have provided employees and contractors with 
a copy of both OCB™s editorial guidelines and the VOA Charter. In 
interviews with committee staff, OCB management did not identify 
any follow-up. If this ‚‚certification™™ has occurred, evidence that it 
has improved performance still is unavailable. OCB says it has taken recent steps to improve training for its employees. OCB selected a staff person to serve as a training coor-
dinator and established a designated space for training classes. 
However, BBG™s Manual of Administration establishes additional 
responsibilities for providing training that OCB has not yet ful-
filled. For example, while the manual requires managers to review 
employees™ training needs annually, OCB officials reported that 
they have made no recent efforts to do so, citing budget limitations. 
In FY 2009, however, OCB received funding for training in journal-
istic standards. OCB also has failed to implement some IBB program review rec-ommendations. For example, IBB action plans from 2003 through 
2008 recommended that OCB: 1) separate news from opinion in 
broadcasts; 2) ensure balanced and comprehensive selection of 
viewpoints; 3) avoid sweeping generalizations and editorializing; 4) 
use guests who are informed on program topics; and 5) separate 
unsubstantiated reports from Cuba from newscasts. Rather than move OCB under VOA, the two organizations have implemented a modest co-location plan, whereby VOA Latin Amer-
ica broadcasters have begun working from a dedicated studio in 
OCB. This arrangement enablesŠbut does not requireŠthem to 
work with and advise OCB broadcasters, and has created an optic 
of main VOA dependence on, and implicit subordination to, a surro-
gate radio with serious quality control issues. It is unclear at this 
stage what the overall mission of the co-located group will be, who 
will work for whom, and what authority, if any, VOA will have over 
Radio and TV Marti broadcasts. So far, OCB and VOA have begun 
co-producing a half-hour program called ‚‚A Fondo,™™ or ‚‚In Depth,™™ 
which provides news and analysis on the Western hemisphere. Un-
fortunately, however, the fact that OCB will remain in Miami un-
dercuts efforts to broaden the organization™s political scope outside 
southern Florida and to ensure that programming is up to world-
wide VOA standards. IBB™s efforts to oversee OCB take three main forms, but all have been largely unsuccessful. First, OCB participates in a daily edi-
torial meeting at the manager level with VOA and IBB staff to dis-
cuss what news stories each entity will be covering that day. Ac-
cording to IBB™s deputy director, participation in such meetings is 
supposed to help coordinate entities™ coverage of stories and ensure 
that each entity is covering all relevant news events. Second, as 
previously noted, IBB performs annual program reviews of Radio 
and TV Marti. IBB™s deputy director said that the program review 
process is intended to provide quality control by objectively evalu-VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00012Fmt 6633Sfmt 6633H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 7 2It is possible to place signal strength meters on U.S. Coast Guard ships circling Cuba in international waters to determine if the signal is getting through, but this would cost more than 
$100,000Šmoney that is not included in OCB™s budget, according to IBB and OCB officials. ating OCB™s broadcasting services once a year and recommending improvements in their broadcasting. But this is only once a year, 
and it has little effect on Radio and TV Marti™s day-to-day pro-gramming. Third, IBB participates in and oversees OCB™s handling 
of strategic issues, such as using an aircraft to broadcast TV 
Marti™s programming. Audience Size Radio and TV Marti have struggled with reports of small audi-ence size since their creation. While there are no nationally rep-
resentative data, and some surveys indicate a larger potential 
audience, most available research suggests that Radio and TV 
Marti™s audience is small, due in large part to signal jamming by 
the Cuban Government. To measure audience size, IBB periodically commissions inter-national telephone surveys, conducted primarily from Costa Rica. 
IBB also empanels focus groups in Miami made up of recent Cuban 
arrivals to the United States to solicit their feedback on the content 
and production quality of OCB programming and to obtain infor-
mation about their radio and television use, preferences, and expe-
riences in Cuba. These panels appear to be duplicative, in that 
OCB also contracts with a local Miami market research firm that 
conducts monitoring panels once a month and conducts surveys 
twice a year to solicit recent Cuban arrivals™ feedback on the qual-
ity of TV Marti programming and to obtain information about their 
media habits and perceptions of programming. Many Cuba watch-
ers doubt the reliability of recent arrivals from Cuba, fearing that 
they tell interviewers what they want to hear. In addition, many 
recent arrivals report having watched TV Marti, only to clarify that 
they saw it in the U.S. Interests Section in Havana while awaiting 
a visa. Fewer than 2 percent of respondents to telephone surveys since 2003 reported tuning in to Radio or TV Marti during the past 
week, but some observers claim the telephone interview method-
ology is flawed. In a recent interview, the pollster said that tele-
phone interviewers almost immediately were confronted with hos-
tile respondents, who thought that the interviewers were working 
on behalf of the Cuban Government and were trying to trick them 
into admitting that they listened to Radio and TV Marti, which 
would incriminate citizens as government opponents. Many re-
spondents answered the pollsters™ questions by saying that, of 
course they did not listen to Radio Marti or watch TV Marti, and 
to tell Cuban authorities that their utilities were in need of repair, 
there was not enough food available in the marketplace, or that the 
local hospital lacked supplies. Despite the problems associated with telephone surveys con-ducted from outside Cuba, they still are among the only cost-effec-
tive methods of estimating audience size for Radio and TV Marti.2 The surveys indicate that fewer than 2 percent of respondents in 
2003, 2005, and 2006 said they listened to Radio Marti during the VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00013Fmt 6633Sfmt 6633H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 8 3Survey Conducted for the Office of Cuba Broadcasting Among Recently Arrived Cubans: Pre-liminary Report, Requisition Number IQ 1088-09-IQ 005, Solicitation Number QS-BBG50-R-09- 
0001, June 12, 2009. previous week. In 2008, fewer than 1 percent of respondents said they listened to Radio Marti during the previous week. Additional IBB audience research indicates that TV Marti™s audi-ence size also is minute. All of IBB™s telephone surveys since 2003 
show that fewer than 1 percent of respondents said they watched 
TV Marti during the previous week. Notably, results from the 2006 
and 2008 telephone surveys show no increase in reported TV Marti 
viewership following the launch of AeroMarti and DirecTV broad-
casting in 2006. OCB officials maintain that other information suggests that Radio and TV Marti may have a larger audience in Cuba. For ex-
ample, a 2007 survey that OCB commissioned to obtain informa-
tion on programming preferences and media habits also contained 
data on Radio and TV Marti™s audience size. This nonrandom sur-
vey of 382 Cubans who had recently arrived in the United States 
found that 45 percent of respondents reported listening to Radio 
Marti and that 21 percent reported watching TV Marti within the 
last six months before leaving Cuba. However, these results may 
not represent the actual size of Radio and TV Marti™s audience be-
cause 1) according to BBG officials, higher viewing and listening 
rates are expected among recent arrivals, and 2) the demographic 
characteristics of the respondents to this survey did not reflect the 
broader Cuban population. Anecdotal reports confirm that Radio Marti broadcasts have reached significant audiences over the years in response to specific 
events. OCB claimed that Radio Marti™s coverage of Hurricane Ike, 
which struck Cuba in September 2008, was widely heard there, 
with callers from all over the island providing updated information 
on the situation to OCB. And in interviews with the Associated 
Press, more than two dozen Cuban immigrants to Florida con-
tended that Radio Marti could be heard throughout Cuba in the 
days following the hurricane. In June 2009, OCB commissioned Spanish Radio Productions (SRP) of Coral Gables, FL to carry out a study among recently ar-
rived Cuban immigrants to determine their radio listening and tel-
evision viewing habits during their last six months in Cuba.3SRP found that among 390 people interviewed, when asked what ‚‚for-
eign radio stations™™ they listened to, 32 percent volunteered that 
they had listened to Radio Marti. Slightly more than half of those 
added that they stopped listening to Radio Marti because Cuban 
Government jamming made reception difficult. When asked what 
‚‚foreign television stations™™ they had watched during their last six 
months in Cuba, 4 percent said they had watched TV Marti. Of 
those who reported viewing TV Marti, 75 percent had seen it on 
VHF Channel 13, 41.7 percent said they had seen it on DVD or 
video cassette, and 8.3 percent said they had seen it via DirecTV. 
These survey figures, if true, are deceptive. Extrapolated to the 
whole Cuban population, 3 percent have seen TV Marti on Channel 
13, 1.7 percent have seen it on DVD or video, and only 0.3 percent 
on DirecTV. VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00014Fmt 6633Sfmt 6633H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 9 4Modeling of the AeroMarti UHF Channel 20 and VHF Channel 13 broadcast system per-formance was developed using Analytical Graphics, Inc.™s Satellite Tool Kit analytic software 
package, which enables the user to model the dynamic link performance of a communications 
system, as well as the intervisibility among objects in a 3-D geometric model. The STK/Commu-
nication module was used to model the desired (TV Marti) and undesired (jamming and noise) 
signal levels at the receiver and the effects of atmospheric propagation on signal strengths. 5The Matanzas flight profile is the practice of pointing the aircraft™s broadcast antenna to-ward the city of Matanzas, Cuba. OCB technicians say that this allows broader potential 
viewership coverage, and less jamming interference, than would directing the signal at Havana. 6AeroMarti Broadcast Effectiveness Analysis, Contract Number BBG45-P-08-0008, Data Item Number A002, Document Number PMF-01382, 27 August 2008, by Lockheed Martin Corpora-
tion, Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Company. 7Complaint filed with the FCC and the ITU on June 25, 2007 by the Cuban ‚‚Agencia de Con-trol y Supervision-MIC.™™ The problems with this survey are twofold. First, the method-ology is not a scientific, random sample, but a group of recently ar-
rived immigrants, who likely are, by definition, anti-regime. Sec-
ond, there is no accounting for where these immigrants listened to 
Radio Marti or viewed TV Marti. For example, both are offered in 
the U.S. Interests Section, where the immigrants had to go to ac-
quire visas for their travel to the United States. Higher listenership and viewership numbers are plausible, as evidenced by Lockheed Martin, a TV Marti contractor, and by the 
Cuban Government itself, both of which have offered evidence that 
TV Marti is potentially available across wide swaths of the country 
as a ‚‚Grade A™™ broadcast signal. At OCB™s request, Lockheed Martin Aeronautics™ Advanced De-velopment Programs developed analytical models of the AeroMarti 
UHF Channel 20 and VHF Channel 13 broadcast systems, Cuban 
local TV transmitters operating on Channels 20 and 13, and Cuban 
jamming transmitters based in Havana.4These computer models were employed in an advanced broadcast simulation environment 
and used to develop an engineering assessment of the effectiveness 
of the AeroMarti airborne broadcast system. Broadcast perform-
ance was evaluated both in an environment of co-channel inter-
ference from neighboring Cuban TV stations and when Havana- 
based jamming is active. According to Lockheed Martin™s model, TV Marti™s Channel 20 broadcast signal potentially extends over 21.1 percent of the main 
island of Cuba (outside Havana) during jamming while broad-
casting along the Matanzas flight profile.5The AeroMarti Channel 13 broadcast model indicates potential coverage over 22.7 percent 
of the island from the same flight profile, an increase of 322 sq km 
from the UHF model™s coverage.6 Lockheed Martin™s simulations suggest high TV Marti signal lev-els are greater than jamming noise and noise from co-channel 
broadcasts. That is, in the simulations, viewers could see TV Marti 
broadcast signals even with jamming. Clear broadcast reception is 
projected over wide areas during these events with significant sig-
nal coverage over a portion of the Cuban mainland along the north-
ern coastal regions and outside of Havana. The studies do not ex-
plain, however, why all eyewitness accounts and polls show much 
lower TV Marti viewership. In June 2007, the Cuban Government claimed a similar theo-retical signal strength (i.e., when not jamming) when it filed a for-
mal complaint with the International Telecommunications Union.7 In its complaint, the Cuban Government specified the on-ground VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00015Fmt 6633Sfmt 6633H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 10 8We are unable to determine how the frequency changes affect listeners™ ability to tune in. measured signal strength of the AeroMarti broadcast to be within the range of 64dB©Œ74dB©. This measured performance by the Cuban Government corroborates test measurements performed by 
Lockheed Martin on the AeroMarti aircraft in 2006 and 2007, prior 
to formal acceptance of the airborne broadcast systems by OCB. It 
is also consistent with the ‚‚FCC Grade A™™ signal strength specified 
in the Lockheed Martin model and in its contract with OCB. Cuban Government Jamming IBB and OCB have studied the extent and impact of jamming, but they still lack data on the number, type, and overall effective-
ness of the jammers. Nonetheless, IBB, OCB, and Lockheed Martin 
feel confident with their conclusions on Cuba™s jamming practices. The Cuban Government jams Radio Marti™s shortwave signals and interferes with Radio Marti™s AM signals by counter-broad-
casting at a higher power level on the same frequency. OCB tries 
to overcome jamming of its shortwave signals by alternating among 
10 different frequencies throughout the day.8To overcome Cuban Government counter-broadcasting of its AM broadcasts, OCB in-
creases signal power during daylight hours. According to OCB, the 
Cuban Government™s counter-broadcasting is largely effective in 
and around Havana and several other large cities, but probably has 
little impact outside those areas. OCB reports that jamming affects all Radio Marti shortwave transmissions at all hours. It is more intense around Havana, but 
shortwave reception in eastern parts of Cuba is often strong. There 
are significant areas of the island, outside Havana, where medium 
wave jamming is not a significant obstacle to listening. Lockheed Martin believes, based on identification of high points, that Cuba™s fixed jammers are located on the four tallest buildings 
in Havana. They are likely atop the FOCSA Building (400 feet), the 
Bacardi Building (150 feet), Revolution Tower (350 feet), and 
Capitolio (300 feet). OCB also claims that mobile jammers are 
mounted on trucks and boats and in airplanes so that they can be 
moved around the island as necessary; we are unable to corrobo-
rate that assertion. All of the fixed jammers were damaged by Hur-
ricane Ike in September 2008, but were pressed back into duty a 
year later. Cuban Government jamming of TV Marti transmissions from AeroMarti is intense in metropolitan Havana, but OCB has no evi-
dence of jamming of either Radio or TV Marti transmissions from 
the HISPASAT satellites. HISPASAT is a group of Spanish commu-
nications satellites that carry Spanish and Latin American tele-vision programming. It is available across northern Latin America 
and throughout Cuba. There is no jamming of TV Marti trans-
missions from DirecTV, which carries other Spanish-language sta-
tions from Miami and covers the western portion of Cuba. Recently arrived Cubans who participated in an IBB-commis-sioned focus group reported that signal jamming of TV Marti™s 
over-the-air broadcast via AeroMarti made it difficult for them to 
view TV Marti. Officials of the U.S. Interests Section in Havana VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00016Fmt 6633Sfmt 6633H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 11 also said that Cuban Government jamming of AeroMarti usually prevented them from viewing over-the-air TV Marti broadcasts. Interestingly, OCB engineers claim that there is no Cuban jam-ming at all during baseball games broadcast on TV Marti on Friday 
and Sunday evenings during baseball season. In a December 2007 
SRP survey, which interviewed 382 recently arrived Cuban immi-
grants, 21 percent reported watching TV Marti in Cuba during the 
past six months, and 81 percent said that baseball was a ‚‚very im-
portant™™ or ‚‚important™™ programming feature. 5. OCB MANAGEMENTALSODEALINGWITH
OTHERPROBLEMS Besides congressional opposition, journalistic standards, audience size, and jamming, OCB management has had to deal with several 
other serious problems in the recent past. Competition from domes-
tic Cuban radio and television stations, for example, has forced 
OCB to continually update its format, an action that can be con-
fusing to some listeners and viewers. In interviews with committee 
staff, OCB™s director emphasized that the competitive media envi-
ronment in Cuba is a key challenge for OCB in attracting and 
maintaining an audience for Radio and TV Marti. Indeed, OCB 
management was concerned enough about its ‚‚brand™™ in Cuba that 
it changed the Radio Marti and TV Marti logo in 2009. Meanwhile, time, progress, and the internet may be doing what Radio and TV Marti have not been able to do in Cuba. In 2008, 
more than 90 percent of telephone survey respondents said they 
watched Cuba™s national television broadcasts during the past 
week. IBB and OCB officials said that the quality of Cuban tele-
vision programming has improved and now includes popular U.S. 
programming, such as ‚‚Grey™s Anatomy,™™ ‚‚Friends,™™ and ‚‚The So-
pranos.™™ In addition, about 30 percent of respondents in recent 
polls said they watched CNN en EspanŸol, which is carried on Cuban television, during the past week. This clearly is a challenge 
for TV Marti, which arguably has had limited success in opening 
Cuban society to uncensored news from around the world. The 
presence of CNN on Cuban televisionŠand its apparent popularity 
among CubansŠappears to undercut the need for an alternative 
news source such as TV Marti. Accusations of cronyism also continue to dog OCB management. Critics maintain that many senior-level OCB employees were 
granted their positions because of their personal connections within 
OCB, rather than because of any specific qualifications they may 
have had for the job. For example, the director of VOA Latin Amer-ica is a nephew of OCB™s director and is also a former OCB official. 
These critics assert that whether ‚‚connected™™ employees have suc-
ceeded in their positions is irrelevant. The fact that they obtained 
their jobs in a non-competitive manner is enough to harm morale 
and to lead to questions about management™s transparency. OCB™s presence in Miami also is another potential oversight problem. BBG and IBB management, both in Washington, said 
that OCB™s Miami locale did not inhibit their efforts to oversee it. 
They noted that they were in regular telephone and email contact 
with OCB management. They also claimed that the monthly BBG 
board meetings (one of which is held in Miami each year) offered 
sufficient personal contact with OCB management. Some OCB em-VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00017Fmt 6633Sfmt 6633H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 12 ployees, however, expressed concern to GAO over what they per-ceived as a lack of oversight by BBG and IBB. One employee com-
mented that OCB seemed to be ‚‚out of sight and out of the minds™™ 
of BBG and IBB. Other employees told committee staff that they 
did not feel like they were part of ‚‚the BBG family™™ because of the 
physical distance between BBG and IBB management and OCB. Finally, OCB has even had to deal with criminal behavior in the workplace. In February 2007, the former director of TV Marti pro-
gramming, along with a relative of a member of Congress, pleaded 
guilty in U.S. federal court to receiving nearly $112,000 in kick-
backs over a three-year period from a vendor receiving OCB con-
tracts. The former OCB employee, Jose Miranda, was sentenced to 
27 months in prison and fined $5,000 after being found guilty of 
taking as much as 50 percent of all monies paid by TV Marti for 
the production of television programming by vendor Perfect Image. 
The court found that Miranda personally accepted 73 separate 
checks from Perfect Image from late 2001 through 2004. He also 
pleaded guilty to income tax evasion in the scheme. 6. RECOMMENDATIONS First and foremost, IBB should move OCB back to Washington and integrate it fully into VOA. OCB cooperation with VOA in 
Miami is fine for purposes of occasional joint programming and edi-
torial review, but OCB™s problems are deeper than that and require 
integration between the two organizations under tighter IBB con-
trol. Creating a VOA-Marti service within VOA could resolve sev-
eral serious problems: It would help ensure that programming, par-
ticularly news quality, meets VOA standards. It would bring OCB, 
VOA, and IBB management teams together permanently, allowing 
them to share best practices. And the creation of a Cuba/Marti 
service within VOA would more firmly establish the Marti brand 
in Cuba, and, by raising standards, help build OCB™s audience. OCB must ‚‚return to basics™™ to clean up its operation. It must attract quality talent from outside Miami, implement quality edi-
torial standards, and attract quality management. Hiring and 
training must be overhauled to ensure a de-politicized and profes-
sional workforce. OCB should spend less on measuring audience size, especially surveys by self-interested contractors, and focus more on quality 
programming. It is that quality programming that will cause inter-
ested Cubans to seek out available broadcasts, whether over the 
air, or, if their access to technology permits, via satellite and the internet. IBB should take several immediate actions to comply with rec-ommendations raised by GAO™s report. First, GAO recommended 
that BBG take the following two steps: 1) to conduct an analysis 
of the relative success and return on investment of broadcasting to 
Cuba, showing the cost, nature of the audience, and challengesŠ 
such as jamming and competitionŠrelated to each of OCB™s trans-
mission methods. The analysis should also include comprehensive 
information regarding the media environment in Cuba to better un-
derstand the extent to which OCB broadcasts are attractive to Cu-
bans; and 2) to coordinate the sharing of information among U.S. 
agencies and grantees regarding the audience research relating to VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00018Fmt 6633Sfmt 6633H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 13 Radio and TV Marti. We agree fully with these recommendations. OCB cannot fully serve its intended audience without under-
standing its operating environment, its competition, and its audi-
ence™s wishes. In addition, we believe that IBB must: 1) enhance guidance, training, and oversight for analysts performing program reviews; 2) 
provide regular, ongoing, and comprehensive training to OCB staff 
regarding journalistic standards; and 3) develop guidance and take 
steps to ensure that political and other inappropriate advertise-
ments are not shown during OCB broadcasts. To address chronic management issues, it is important to have processes in place to enable the efficient and effective operation of 
OCB. Finally, to improve morale within the organization, OCB 
management should take steps to address persistent concerns with 
its communication and interaction with OCB staff. VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00019Fmt 6633Sfmt 6633H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
 14 VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00020Fmt 6633Sfmt 6633H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
cuart1.eps (15) APPENDIX 
Broadcasting Board of Governors Organizational Chart Æ VerDate Nov 24 2008 08:59 Apr 30, 2010Jkt 000000PO 00000Frm 00021Fmt 6601Sfmt 6601H:\DOCS\56157.TXTMIKEB
cuba.eps