Skip to Main Content            POLITICO              Magazine  The Agenda  Pro   Search    Search                SECTIONS   Congress  White House  Magazine  The Agenda  Video  Podcasts     2020 Elections   News  All Election Results  Presidential Results  Senate Results  House Results  Governor Results  Key Ballot Measures  Tracking Threats to the Election     NEWSLETTERS   Playbook  Playbook PM  POLITICO Nightly  Transition Playbook  Huddle  All Newsletters    SERIES   The Fifty  The Vaccine Race  What Works  Women Rule     POLITICO LIVE   Live Home  Upcoming Events  Previous Events  About POLITICO Live    COLUMNS &amp; CARTOONS   Rich Lowry  Jack Shafer  Matt Wuerker  Cartoon Carousel     POLICY   Agriculture  Cannabis  Cybersecurity  Defense  Education  eHealth  Employment &amp; Immigration  Energy &amp; Environment  Finance &amp; Tax  Health Care  Space  Sustainability  Technology  Trade  Transportation     EDITIONS   California  Canada  Europe  Florida  New Jersey  New York  Pro     Follow us   Twitter  Instagram  Facebook      My Account  Log InLog Out                                  Facebook      Twitter        Print     Continue to article content                                    “You know what they used to do to a guy like that in a place like this?” Donald Trump said.
 “The guards are being very gentle with him,” Trump said.
 “I’d like to punch him in the face, I’ll tell you that.”      Trump said the protester had been “throwing punches.” By the time a POLITICO reporter spotted the protester being led from the floor of South Point Arena by security personnel, the man was not throwing punches.
 According to multiple South Point security personnel, the man did not throw any punches.
 Trump "was just over-exaggerating," said one security guard, who asked that his name not be used.
 “We’re not allowed to punch back any more,” Trump lamented.
 The billionaire said he missed the “good old days,” when the man would be treated differently.
 “You know what they used to do to a guy like that in a place like this?” Trump said.
 “They’d be carried out on a stretcher, folks.” The businessman then moved on to his position on waterboarding.
 “I think it’s great but I don’t think we go far enough,” Trump said.
 The businessman said the press would portray him as a “mean guy” for that position.
 “I’m just a guy who doesn’t want to be pushed around by a bunch of animals,” he said.
 Sign up for POLITICO Playbook and get the latest news, every morning — in your inbox.
