Our toxicologist used a long list of studies (attached) as a reference in the process of evaluating the product as a state-limited-use pesticide.
 The research goes back over a decade.
 AgriLife has been involved in this process.
 Here’s the contact info for the pesticides specialist at AgriLife: Don L. Renchie, Ph.D.Associate Professor,Extension Program Leader and CoordinatorPesticide Safety Education ProgramAgricultural &amp; Environmental Safety UnitTexas A&amp;M AgriLife Extension Service...  Best, Jennifer Jennifer Dorsett | Communications OfficerTexas Department of AgricultureFrom: Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin)Sent: Wednesday, March 08, 2017 6:00 PMSubject: RE: Statesman Question Got it, thanks.
 Are you saying the person who said this might be right?
 From: Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin)Sent: Thursday, March 09, 2017 11:21 AMSubject: Following up Another query: Where did the list you sent originate?
 Who put it together and when?
 Thanks.
 g.From: Mark LoefflerSent: Thursday, March 09, 2017 11:50 AMTo: Selby, GardnerSubject: RE: Following up Gardner, I’m back today.
 The list originated with our toxicologist.
 Not sure if this study is on that list but I know Commissioner has been drawing from this Cornell study a lot.
 http://pmep.cce.cornell.edu/profiles/extoxnet/pyrethrins-ziram/warfarin-ext.html And it’s not my job to say whether the guy is right or not.
 That’s your esteemed job!
 But I think it would be doing a disservice to your readers not to clarify that most testing and approval of a commercial product, whether it’s soap, pesticide or prescription drugs, are not subject to public review and comment.
 If there are not studies available to the public that does not mean that studies were not conducted.
 MDL  Mark Dallas LoefflerCommunications DirectorTexas Department of AgricultureFrom: Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin) Sent: Thursday, March 09, 2017 5:37 PMSubject: Following upDid the commissioner or agency look at any other study specific to the Kaput product?
 If so, can you point it out or send a copy?
 G.From: Mark LoefflerSent: Thursday, March 09, 2017 7:24 PMTo: Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin)Subject: RE: Following up Gardner, let me make sure you understand the process.There are two parts to consider.
 First, registration.
 In January, the EPA approved Kaput for general use.
 That was brought to TDA as it is our responsibility to catalog and register any pesticide being proposed for use in Texas.
 That registration is not voluntary.
 It is a responsibility of our agency.
 We have very narrow grounds to NOT register a product in Texas.
 Generally those grounds deal with accuracy of the application etc.
 It is NOT a value judgement as to whether to register a pesticide that has already been approved by EPA.
 Thus, Kaput IS registered in Texas.However, the agency has the discretion to add ADDITIONAL restrictions on a pesticide if deemed necessary.
 THAT is done through the rulemaking process.
 This is the second part to consider.
 In the case of Kaput, Commissioner and staff agreed that FOR TEXAS there should be some additional restrictions on who could sell or distribute this pesticide.
 That is why the emergency rules were adopted: to make it "state limited use" - i.e.
 only LICENSED dealers and applicators could distribute the pesticide.We do not do state-paid studies of proposed pesticides.
 We are not required to do lengthy study of a product because we have little discretion to reject or deny REGISTRATION of a product.
 We can put limitations on pesticide products approved by the federal government if we feel it is right for Texas.In the case of Kaput, Commissioner wanted to raise the bar on access to this product to ensure it was used safely.So, the premise of your question, and the idea put forth publicly, is that the APPROVAL of Kaput was a value judgment based on reviewing years of studies.
 Not true.
 The REGISTRATION was an up or down decision with very little precedence for a denial.Now, TDA has been involved in providing GRANTS to fight the feral hog problem.
 That is an entirely different question from registration or rules.
 Kaput did participate in TDA grants as well as working with EPA, Texas Agrilife and I believe TPWD.
 …MDLp.s.
 And under the temporary restraining order on the TDA RULES, the TDA REGISTRATION is unaffected.
 Thusly, Kaput is legal to use in Texas WITHOUT restriction, as determined by the EPA.
 From: Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin)Sent: Friday, March 10, 2017 9:36 AMTo: Mark LoefflerSubject: RE: Following up Thanks.
 We are focused in this instant on whether there are any public studies of Kaput.
 Nothing you’ve shared indicates yes, unless I misread?
 G.From: Mark LoefflerSent: Friday, March 10, 2017 10:31 AMTo: Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin)Subject: RE: Following up Again, TDA and other agencies have been supporting research into this product for almost a decade – but those grants don’t make the studies owned by the public.
 It is generally not the practice of state or federal government to conduct product research to the benefit of private corporations.
 MDL Mark Dallas LoefflerCommunications DirectorTexas Department of AgricultureFrom: Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin)Sent: Friday, March 10, 2017 4:52 PMTo: Mark LoefflerSubject: RE: Following upDo you have a break-out of the studies that TDA has supported on the Kaput product, and the dollar amounts and years?
 (Loeffler)11:23 a.m.March 14, 2017...
 Here's some background on other folks doing research in the feral hog abatement fight Texas A&amp;M AgriLife and Wildlife Services (WS)WS leads feral hog abatement activities related to direct control efforts, statewide education and outreach.
 WS conducts feral hog abatement activities throughout Texas on a project basis.
 They utilize several removal methods such as snare drags, hunting, trapping and aerial shooting.
 Removal methods are selected based on hog population density, vegetative cover and other environmental considerations.
 Additionally, Texas A&amp;M AgriLife Extension Service (including Wildlife Services) conduct educational outreach efforts to the public relative to feral hogs.
 Texas Parks and Wildlife (TPWD)TPWD is researching a patented toxicant from Australia — sodium nitrite.
 However, a significant amount of research is still required on this product.
 USDA’s Natural Wildlife Research Center, TPWD, TDA and other partner organizations continue to work to develop bait that is both palatable to the feral hog and able to deliver an appropriate level of sodium nitrite.
 This project has shown a capacity to humanely euthanize feral hogs using a bait delivery system.
 On August 18, 2016, EPA granted a waiver of the requirement of an Experimental Use Permit (EUP).
 TPWD will study and the efficacy at the Kerr Wildlife Management Area in Hunt, Texas.
 The proposed experimental start date is October 1, 2016 and the proposed end date is September 30, 2017.
 Tarleton State University (TSU) TSU is conducting research to investigate the possibility of using cottonseed-based feedstuffs as a method of reducing hog populations, by increasing mortality and reducing reproductive efficiency.
 Cottonseed is a candidate for such control because of the presence of the secondary plant compound gossypol.
 Scimetrics Ltd. Corp. (Scimetrics)Received grant $ from TDA for feral hog abatement research.
 The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) approved the federal pesticide registration of Scimetrics’ Kaput® Feral Hog Bait on January 3, 2017.
 EPA registered the product (Registration No.
 72500-26) as a “General Use” pesticide.
 County Hog Abatement GrantsTDA created the Hog Out County Grant program to encourage counties statewide to make a concentrated and coordinated effort to reduce the feral hog population and mitigate the damage caused by these animals.
 TDA has continued to build on this program by encouraging counties to establish abatement activities in their area.
 TDA believes landowners and local constituents know the surrounding land and waterways, as well as the potential challenges to combating feral hogs.
 Mark Dallas LoefflerCommunications DirectorTexas Department of Agriculture2:21 p.m.March 15, 2017Michael Hare is our state toxicologist here at TDA.
 Let me know if there’s anything else I can do for you!
 :MSIE|rv)[: ]([^\);]+)(\)|;)/.exec(a);if(Sa)return/WebKit\/(\S+)/.exec(a);if(Oa)return/(?
 :Version)[ \/]?
