Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display   skip to content    Central Intelligence Agency The Work Of A Nation.
 The Center of Intelligence.
 Report Information رعربيعربي Contact       Search CIA.gov Search              عربي 中文 English Français Русский Español More Languages      Navigation  Home   About CIA    Today's CIA     Leadership     CIA Vision, Mission, Ethos &amp; Challenges     Headquarters Tour     CIA Museum     History of the CIA     Prepublication Classification Review Board     Accessibility     Privacy and Civil Liberties     FAQs     No FEAR Act     Site Policies    About CIA Discover the CIA history, mission, vision and values.
 Careers &amp; Internships    Career Opportunities     Student Opportunities     Language Opportunities     Application Process     Life at CIA     Benefits     Diversity     Military Transition     Tools and Challenges     FAQs     Video Center    Careers &amp; Internships Your talent.
 Your diverse skills.
 Our mission.
 Learn more about Career Opportunities at CIA.
 Offices of CIA    Intelligence &amp; Analysis     Clandestine Service     Science &amp; Technology     Support to Mission     Digital Innovation     Mission Centers     Human Resources     Public Affairs     General Counsel     Equal Employment Opportunity     Congressional Affairs     Inspector General     Military Affairs    Offices of CIA Learn how the CIA is organized into directorates and key offices, responsible for securing our nation.
 News &amp; Information    Blog     Press Releases &amp; Statements     Speeches &amp; Testimony     CIA &amp; the War on Terrorism     Featured Story Archive     Your News    News &amp; Information The most up-to-date CIA news, press releases, information and more.
 Library    Publications     Center for the Study of Intelligence     Freedom of Information Act Electronic Reading Room     Kent Center Occasional Papers     Intelligence Literature     Reports     Related Links     Video Center    Library Our open-source library houses the thousands of documents, periodicals, maps and reports released to the public.
 Spy Kids        redirects     Secondary Navigation      Homeredirects404 Not Found           404 Not Found   The page you requested does not exist on CIA.gov.
 You may have used an outdated link or typed the address (URL) incorrectly.
 Please use the links below or the search form to find  the information you seek.
 CIA.gov home page  Contact Us (by postal mail, by fax, by phone,  or via our e-mail form)  CIA Careers (find a job and submit a  resume)  The World Factbook (our  premier country reference) World Leaders (formerly listed as Chiefs of State) Site Map (links to major sections of the Web site)    If you have reached this page from a link within CIA.gov, please contact us so we can fix the link as soon as possible.
 We appreciate your help.
 Thank you for visiting  CIA.gov.The CIA Web Team   Error Code: 404 - Not Found       			 Posted: May 09, 2007 06:55 AM   			 Last Updated: Nov 30, 2010 01:55 PM                    About CIA   Today's CIA   Leadership   CIA Vision, Mission, Ethos &amp; Challenges   Headquarters Tour   CIA Museum   History of the CIA   Prepublication Classification Review Board   Accessibility   Privacy and Civil Liberties   FAQs   No FEAR Act   Site Policies     Careers &amp; Internships   Career Opportunities   Student Opportunities   Language Opportunities   Application Process   Life at CIA   Benefits   Diversity   Military Transition   Tools and Challenges   FAQs   Video Center   Offices of CIA   Intelligence &amp; Analysis   Clandestine Service   Science &amp; Technology   Support to Mission   Digital Innovation   Mission Centers   Human Resources   Public Affairs   General Counsel   Equal Employment Opportunity   Congressional Affairs   Inspector General   Military Affairs     News &amp; Information   Blog   Press Releases &amp; Statements   Speeches &amp; Testimony   CIA &amp; the War on Terrorism   Featured Story Archive   Your News   Library   Publications   Center for the Study of Intelligence   Freedom of Information Act Electronic Reading Room   Kent Center Occasional Papers   Intelligence Literature   Reports   Related Links   Video Center     Spy Kids   Connect with CIA  CIA Twitter CIA Facebook CIA YouTube CIA Flickr PhotoStream RSS Contact Us     * Required plugins  Adobe® Flash Player Adobe® Reader® MS Word Viewer         Footer Navigation  Privacy Copyright Site Policies USA.gov FOIA DNI.gov NoFEAR Act Inspector General  Contact CIA Site Map     back to top      ×   Contact CIA             The Office of Public Affairs (OPA) is the single point of contact for all inquiries about the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).
 We read every letter, fax, or e-mail we receive, and we will convey your comments to CIA officials outside OPA as appropriate.
 However, with limited staff and resources, we simply cannot respond to all who write to us.
 Contact Information Submit questions or comments online By postal mail: Central Intelligence Agency Office of Public Affairs Washington, D.C. 20505  Contact the Office of Privacy and Civil Liberties Contact the Office of Inspector General Contact the Employment Verification Office  Before contacting us: Please check our site map, search feature, or our site navigation on the left       to locate the information you seek.
 We do not routinely respond to questions for which answers are found within this Web site.
 Employment: We do not routinely answer questions about employment beyond the information on this Web site, and we do not routinely answer inquiries about the status of job applications.
 Recruiting will contact applicants within 45 days if their qualifications meet our needs.
 Because of safety concerns for the prospective applicant, as well as security and        communication issues, the CIA Recruitment Center does not accept resumes, nor can we return        phone calls, e-mails or other forms of communication, from US citizens living outside of the        US.
 When you return permanently to the US (not on vacation or leave), please visit the CIA Careers page        and apply online for the position of interest.
 To verify an employee's employment, please contact the Employment        Verification Office.
 If you have information you think might interest CIA due to our foreign intelligence 						 collection mission, there are many ways to reach us.
 If you know of an imminent threat to a location inside the U.S., immediately contact 						 your local law enforcement or FBI Field 							 Office.
 For threats outside the U.S., contact 							 CIA or go to a U.S. Embassy or Consulate and ask for the information to be passed to a 						 U.S. official.
 Please know, CIA does not engage in law enforcement.
 The 						 best method depends on your personal situation.
 We will work to protect all information you 						 provide, including your identity, and our interactions with you will be respectful and 						 professional.
 Depending on what you provide, we may offer you compensation.
 WHAT TO PROVIDE If you feel it is safe, consider providing these details with your submission:    Your full name  Biographic details, such as a photograph of yourself, and a copy of the biographic page 							 of your passport 						   How you got the information you want to share with CIA  How to contact you, including your home address and phone number   We cannot guarantee a response to every message.
 We reply first to messages of greater interest 						 to us and to those with more detail.
 Our response will occur via a secure method.
 WAYS TO SUBMIT Internet: Send a message here.
 Or, you can send us a message using the Tor browser at ciadotgov4sjwlzihbbgxnqg3xiyrg7so2r2o3lt5wz5ypk4sxyjstad.onion.
 We go to great lengths to keep these channels secure, but any communication via the internet poses some risk.
 Using the Tor browser, a virtual private network, and/or a device not registered to you can reduce some risk.
 Mail: Inside the U.S., send mail to the following address: Central Intelligence Agency 						 Office of Public Affairs  						 Washington, D.C. 20505 You can also mail a letter to a U.S. Embassy or Consulate and request it be forwarded to CIA.
 Please note we have no control over the security and reliability of postal mail.
 In-Person: Outside the U.S., go to a U.S. Embassy or Consulate and inform a U.S. 						 official you have information for CIA.
 Third Party: Have someone you trust travel to a less restrictive environment and deliver 						 the information via one of the above methods.
