Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 David Mikkelson       Published 22 January 2007                          				smg.ads.load( 'post-featured-1' ); 			    Claim  Images document an employee whose hands caught on fire when he lit a cigarette after using a hand sanitizer product.
 Rating         Miscaptioned About this rating        Do you rely on Snopes reporting?
 Become a member today.
 smg.ads.load( 'rating-1' ); 			    Origin  A warning that pictured and described a purported incident involving an employee whose hands supposedly burst into flame when he lit a cigarette after using a hand sanitizer product first hit our inbox in January 2007.
 The original PDF document bears a Chevron logo and copyright notice with a 2005 date and specifically identifies Purell brand hand sanitizer:   What happened: An employee of a company used an Instant Hand Sanitizer available in the bathroom.
 He immediately went outside for a cigarette break.
 It was windy so he held his hand up to block the wind as he was lighting the cigarette and his hand burst into flames as he had not fully rubbed in the sanitizer.
 The Cause: Purell® Instant Hand Sanitizer Product Description: Kills 99.99% of common germs that may cause illness in as little as 15 seconds.
 Use anytime, anyplace, without water or towels.
 Contains moisturizers and vitamin E. Leaves hands feeling refreshed without stickiness or residue.
 Warnings: For external use only.
 Flammable, keep away from fire or flame.
 Recommendation: Advise employees to make sure they rub in the hand sanitizer thoroughly and wash hands before lighting a cigarette or putting their hand near any flame.
 The consumer relations group at Johnson &amp; Johnson, the parent company of Purell, told us only that they were aware of the document, that the incident described was “not something they would expect to happen with their product,” and that they had no other information about it.
 The media relations department at Chevron provided us with the following statement:  We are unable to ascertain the origins of the document and so cannot verify authorship or the accuracy of the contents.
 The views or opinions expressed in the document do not necessarily reflect the views of the company.
 Hand sanitizers are widely available to Chevron employees at many of our office locations and we encourage use of such products to prevent the spread of germs that can lead to illness.
 As it turned out, the photographs embedded in the document had nothing to do with hand sanitizer and instead they depicted burns received in an electrical accident:  The hands on the Purell hand sanitizer page belong to an electrician who worked at the Idaho National Lab.
 Hand sanitizers are typically alcohol-based gels containing isopropanol and/or ethyl alcohol, both of which are flammable.
 The Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for Purell Instant Hand Sanitizer includes mention that the product contains both those compounds (primarily the latter), but how likely such a gel might be to catch fire and burn depends upon a number of factors, including the concentration of water, moisturizing agents, and other elements present in the product.
 We conducted a few simple experiments and found that even a small amount of Purell Instant Hand Sanitizer spread on a (non-organic) surface could easily be ignited by the briefest touch of an open flame, although the resulting fire burned relatively cool and was easily extinguished:  A 1998 Federal Aviation Administration fire-testing study of an ethanol-based gel hand cleaner found that the product was “often difficult to ignite and can be extinguished relatively easily,” although none of its trials involved igniting gel while it was in contact with skin.
 Snopes.com   Since 1994     Help Supercharge Snopes For 2020  				We have big plans.
 We need your help.
 Become a member!
 Published 22 January 2007   By   David Mikkelson     Filed Under   Household Hints               				smg.ads.load( 'post-footer-1' ); 			    Editors' Picks         Trump’s ‘Major Fraud’ Speech, Fact-Checked    															4 November 2020													  							News						   "This is an embarrassment to our country," Trump said, before falsely claiming he had already won the election.
 Live Updates: Snopes Coverage of 2020 U.S. Election Day    															3 November 2020													  							News						   If the campaign season is any indication, misinformation is likely to fill social media feeds Tuesday.
 Get the facts here.
 Did Armed Trump Supporters Harass a Biden Bus in Texas?
 2 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   The Alamo City Trump Train Facebook Group was used to organize the convoy's movements.
 Is America Really ‘Rounding the Turn’ on COVID-19?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   We fact-checked the claims of those who sought to downplay the seriousness of the pandemic in the weeks prior to the 2020 presidential election.
 No, Trump Did Not Call for Biden’s Assassination    															29 October 2020													  							Fact Check						   Critics of the president latched onto his use of the phrase "Joe's shot," in a speech in October 2020.
 What did he actually say?
 14 August 2020													  							Fact Check						   Harris long ago distanced herself from the relationship.
 Did DHS Secretly Watermark Ballots in an Election Fraud Sting Against Dems?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Discussing election mechanics is easier when you actually know how elections work.
 Does Your Food Contain Beaver Anal Secretions?
 5 February 2013													  							Fact Check						   Alarmist warnings about beaver-derived castoreum are overblown: its use is now exceedingly rare, and the typical consumer is unlikely to ever encounter castoreum in food.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 Was a Pornhub Logo Accidentally Displayed on CNN?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   This video has racked up more than 7 million views.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			     Snopes.com needs your help.Become a member today.
 Learn How          				smg.ads.load( 'side-3' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 See the whole collection.
 Support Us       					You rely on Snopes, and we rely on you.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
