Home Affairs Committee
The Home Affairs Committee is appointed by the House of Commons to 
examine the expenditure, administration, and policy of the Home Of˜ce 
and its associated public bodies.
Current membership
Yvette Cooper MP
 (Labour, Normanton, Pontefract and Castleford
) (Chair)
James Berry MP
 (Conservative, Kingston and Surbiton
)Mr David Burrowes MP
 (Conservative, En˜eld, Southgate
)Byron Davies MP
 (Conservative, Gower
)Nusrat Ghani MP
 (Conservative, Wealden
)Mr Ranil Jayawardena MP
 (Conservative, North East Hampshire
)Tim Loughton MP
 (Conservative, East Worthing and Shoreham
)Stuart C. McDonald MP
 (Scottish National Party, Cumbernauld, Kilsyth and 
Kirkintilloch East
)Naz Shah MP
 (Labour, Bradford West
)Mr Chuka Umunna MP
 (Labour, Streatham
)Mr David Winnick MP
 (Labour, Walsall North
)The following were also members of the Committee during the inquiry:
Victoria Atkins MP
 (Conservative, Louth and Horncastle
)Keith Vaz MP
 (Labour, Leicester East
)Powers
The Committee is one of the departmental select committees, the powers 
of which are set out in House of Commons Standing Orders, principally in 
SO No 152. These are available on the internet via 
www.parliament.uk
.Publication
Committee reports are published on the Committee™s website at 
www.parliament.uk/
homeaffairscom
 and in print by Order of the House.
Evidence relating to this report is published on the 
inquiry publications 
page
 of the Committee™s website.
Committee staff
The current staff of the Committee are Carol Oxborough (Clerk), Phil Jones 
(Second Clerk), Harriet Deane (Committee Specialist), Adrian Hitchins 
(Committee Specialist), Andy Boyd (Senior Committee Assistant), Mandy 
Sullivan (Committee Assistant) and Jessica Bridges-Palmer (Committee 
Media Of˜cer).
Contacts
All correspondence should be addressed to the Clerk of the Home Affairs 
Committee, House of Commons, London SW1A 0AA. The telephone 
number for general enquiries is 020 7219 2049; the Committee™s email 
address is 
homeaffcom@parliament.uk
. 1 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 Seventh Special Report
˜e Home A˚airs Committee published its Seventh Report of Session 2016Œ17, 
Migration 
Crisis
 (HC 24), on 3 August 2016. ˜e Government™s response was received on 3 February 
2017 and is appended to this report.
In the Government response the Committee™s recommendations are shown in 
bold
 type; 
the Government™s response is shown in plain type.
Appendix: Government Response 
˜e Home O˛ce would like to thank the Committee for its report on the Migration Crisis 
published on 3 August 2016. ˜e Government™s response is below.
UK exit from the EU
Since we concluded our evidence for this inquiry and began to consider our ˜ndings, 
there has of course been a seismic change in the UK™s relationship with the EU, 
following the EU Referendum on 23 June and the decision to leave the EU. However, 
EU policy on migration and refugees will remain crucial to the UK and the future 
arrangements for dealing with migration will form a central part in the negotiations 
for the UK™s exit from the EU. In the meantime, the current arrangements will continue 
to operate for the two years or more that that negotiation process is likely to take. 
˚is report therefore sets out our assessment of the challenges which Europe and the 
UK face in dealing with the migration crisis, and our recommendations for how the 
UK unilaterally, and Europe collectively, should respond. We will consider the major 
implications of EU exit for justice and home a˛airs issues, including immigration and 
asylum, in more detail in forthcoming inquiries.
 (Paragraph 12)
We start our discussions with a number of clear principles. In particular, as the Prime 
Minister has said, it must be a priority to increase control over the number of people 
who come here from EuropeŠwhilst also allowing British companies to have the widest 
possible access to the single market. At this point it would be wrong to set out further 
unilateral positions ahead of the start of negotiations. At every step of the process we will 
work to ensure the best possible outcome for the British people but, as the Prime Minister 
has also made clear, we will not be giving a running commentary on negotiations.
Juxtaposed border controls
Since the EU Referendum, there have been reports of some politicians in France calling 
for the trilateral Le Touquet agreement on juxtaposed borders to end, and for the UK 
border to be moved back from Calais and other Channel ports to the Kent coast. Such 
comments are unproductive and are likely to encourage more migrants to travel to 
Calais. ˚ere are clear advantages to the UK from a facility that allows UK authorities 
to identify and carry out security checks on travellers, and examine passenger and 
freight vehicle Missing child migrants, on the continental side of the Channel. We 
believe that the arrangements for juxtaposed borders and the co-operation which 
exists between police and border agencies on both sides of the Channel must continue. 
 2 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 ˚is is not just in the interests of the UK, but also France. ˚ose involved in terrorism 
and criminal gangs do not respect borders and both countries need to be vigilant in 
confronting these ever-present threats. Maintaining the Le Touquet agreement should 
be acknowledged as a priority for the UK Government.
 (Paragraph 17)
We share the Committee™s view. ˜e Governments of both the UK and France have 
committed to continue to work together to keep the border secure at the juxtaposed 
ports and to resolve the migrant situation in northern France. ˜e bilateral agreements 
underpinning the juxtaposed controls are not directly a˚ected by the UK™s membership of 
the EU, and both Governments have ruled out any renegotiation of the Le Touquet treaty. 
˜e Prime Minister and the French President have reinforced this position since the UK™s 
vote to leave the EU. ˜e French Interior Minister set out in his meeting with the Home 
Secretary on 30 August that removing the juxtaposed controls would not be in the interests 
of France. We agree that changing the existing border arrangements would worsen the 
situation in Calais by encouraging more migrants to travel there, compromising border 
security and undermining the economic bene˝ts the juxtaposed controls bring to both 
countries.
Steps to tackle illegal migrants crossing the Channel
˚e situation in Calais and elsewhere on the French side of the Channel coast is a 
manifestation of the wider problem across Europe. ˚e number of migrants in Calais 
is relatively small compared to the ˝ows entering Europe and being managed by 
other countries. However, there is a potential threat to UK security, and the ongoing 
challenge to migration controls which this aspect of illegal migration presents remains 
of serious concern to us. ˚e Home O˙ce must continue to adapt its response to cross-
Channel illegal migration to re˝ect changes in methods and routes used by migrant 
smugglers. It must also work actively with EU countries and agencies to tackle the 
root causes of people gathering in the Calais area with the aim of crossing to the UK.
 (Paragraph 26)
We agree with the Committee™s conclusions that our response to illegal migration and the 
criminal groups that perpetuate it must continually evolve to keep pace with the threat.
It is in the UK™s interest to resolve the situation in Calais and to reduce the overall pull factor 
for migrants seeking to enter the UK illegally. ˜e French Government has con˝rmed that 
the operation to clear the camp in Calais has been successful and that the camp is now 
closed. We worked very closely with the French to ensure the clearance was delivered as 
safely as possible. We will continue to work closely with the French Government to keep 
Calais clear and prevent displacement to other ports.
Our determination to keep our border secure and prevent illegal entry into the UK by any 
route is clear. We are taking action with France and other international partners to detect 
and prevent attempts to do so. As part of our work to keep our families, communities and 
country safe, the British and French Governments have made signi˝cant investments in 
bolstering security at the ports in northern France. ˜is includes the recent installation of 
state of the art motion detection technology, which is proving highly e˚ective in detecting 
concealed migrants. ˜e Joint Declaration signed in August 2015 committed the UK and 
France to a package of measures to improve physical and personnel security at the ports. 
˜is includes wider intelligence-led activity to tackle criminal gangs involved in people 
 3 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 tra˛cking and to prevent migrants from entering the UK via clandestine and illegal 
means. Investment has continued this ˝nancial year following the commitments made 
at the UK/France Summit in Amiens in March 2016, and was rea˛rmed by the Home 
Secretary and the French Interior Minister at their meeting on 30 August in Paris.
˜e Joint Declaration also committed the UK and France to regularly review security 
at the juxtaposed ports in northern France. Joint Security Reviews are taking place at 
the ports, led by Border Force and involving UK and French o˛cials and commercial 
operators. We are continuing to implement actions identi˝ed in these reviews to enhance 
security, including work to secure the Calais approach road with the construction of a 
new wall which has now been completed.
We are taking all necessary steps to protect the security of our border and are working 
closely with both the Belgian and Dutch Governments to clamp down on illegal 
immigration. As part of this joint approach, the UK signed an agreement with Belgium 
and the Netherlands in November 2015 to strengthen port security and tackle organised 
immigration crime.
˜e UK Government is also making a further contribution of up to £36 million to support 
the camp clearance in Calais and to invest in the longer term security of the juxtaposed 
controls. As the Home Secretary made clear in her statement to the House on 24 October, 
this contribution is not made unconditionally, and we will continue to work with the 
French Government to ensure that the clearance operation is full and lasting.
˜e UK is playing a leading role in tackling organised immigration crime and increasing 
joint intelligence work to target gangs that exploit people for their own gain. We are 
working closely with the French authorities and other international partners to share 
intelligence to monitor the movement of migrants in areas outside the juxtaposed ports 
and the tactics of migrant smugglers. In June 2015, the former Prime Minister announced 
the creation of the Organised Immigration Crime Taskforce, which brings together 
o˛cers from the National Crime Agency, Border Force, Immigration Enforcement and 
the Crown Prosecution Service to exploit every opportunity at source, in transit countries 
and in Europe to identify and tackle organised crime groups. Working closely with 
French and other international partners, the Taskforce has already successfully disrupted 
crime groups involved in immigration crime by participating in intelligence development 
and sharing, as well as arrests and prosecutions. Between 1 April 2015 and 31 March 
2016, Immigration Enforcement achieved 185 disruptions against criminals involved in 
organised immigration crimeŠcompared to 143 in 2014/15. Immigration Enforcement 
has made 43 disruptions of organised criminal gangs since the beginning of the year as a 
result of joint working between the UK and France.
In November 2015, the then Immigration Minister signed a joint declaration with his 
Belgian and Dutch counterparts covering six areas of cooperation including carrying out 
joint port level operations, exchanging higher levels of tactical and strategic intelligence, 
tackling organised crime groups with closer collaboration, sharing operational 
expertise and the uses of di˚erent technology as well as increasing the use of strategic 
communications to deter migrants from travelling to the UK via illegal means. ˜is work 
is being progressed by senior o˛cials through operational engagement as well as through 
Ministerial meetings.
 4 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 Co-operation on intelligence sharing with both our Dutch and Belgian counterparts has 
continued to develop. We have made signi˝cant improvements in tactical and strategic 
intelligence ˙ows and agreed joint cooperation measures to secure our ports and tackle 
organised criminal groups. ˜is is proving e˚ective in countering organised criminal 
activity and the threat of displacement from ports in northern France to Dutch and 
Belgian ports.
Borders and coastal security
When the Director General of Border Force, Sir Charles Montgomery, gave evidence 
to us in December 2015, he had not been informed what his budget for 2016Œ17 would 
be. When we asked the then Second Permanent Secretary about this in oral evidence 
in April 2016, aˆer the current ˜nancial year had begun, he was unable to tell us 
whether Sir Charles had yet been told what his budget was. ˚e then Home Secretary 
subsequently con˜rmed in writing that Sir Charles had been informed about his 
budget. ˚is initial confusion was unacceptableŠwhen select committees request 
information, it should be provided in a timely way.
 (Paragraph 31)
Each command within the Home O˛ce was aware of their indicative budget in advance 
of the ˝nancial year. Following discussion of the department™s transformation plans, the 
former Home Secretary formally con˝rmed the core 2016/17 budget for each command 
on Monday 11 April. It is not unusual for this process to carry over the beginning of the 
˝nancial year, given the department™s spending envelope is set and indicative allocations 
within that are able to change.
Parliament was then provided a detailed view of the department™s budget, including the 
Border Force budget, when the Treasury presented the Main Supply Estimates on 20 April.
Border Force has been given a key role in implementing strengthened coastal security 
measures but it clear that it is experiencing problems in gaining access to a su˙cient 
number of patrol boats: only four of the new vessels are currently deployed and the 
remaining four will not be available for more than a year. Maritime patrols are an 
essential element of border security for an island nation. Border Force needs to be 
given all the necessary equipment, including vessels, to enable it to carry out its 
responsibilities e˛ectively. ˚e number of Border Force vessels in operation appears 
to be worryingly low. Royal Navy vessels should be made available to Border Force to 
make up for shortfalls, where necessary.
 (Paragraph 32)
Taken with:
In relation to our work on counter-terrorism, the then Minister for Security, John 
Hayes MP, acknowledged that tightening security at larger ports and airports risks 
displacing ﬁmalevolent attentionﬂ to smaller points of entry. ˚is is equally true in 
relation to displacement of illegal migration and small ports are now being used by 
criminal gangs to move people between the Continent and the UK. Moreover, whilst 
the Government can be commended for its e˛orts to secure Calais, it has not heeded 
warnings, including from this Committee, that migration ˝ows would be displaced 
to Belgium and the Netherlands, and most recently to Germany. Security must be 
tightened at small ports and airports which are being used as entry points from these 
new departure points on the continental coast as a matter of urgency. ˚e Government 
 5 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 should inform us what progress has been made on the ﬁurgent workﬂ that it says it is 
carrying out to protect small ports and airports, in addition to the increase in Border 
Force vessels, which is itself delayed.
 (Paragraph 33)
With over 11,000 miles of British mainland coastline, this Government recognises the 
importance of protecting our shores. Border Force is focused on coordinating resources, 
the timely sharing of intelligence, and ensuring it has the right tools for the job. Since the 
start of this year there have been a number of instances of migrants crossing the Channel 
in small boats. Whilst the numbers are low in comparison to other modes of transport, 
this risk is taken very seriously.
˜e UK operates a layered approach to coastal defence, which includes on-shore resources 
and intelligence and surveillance capabilities, to detect e˚orts to facilitate illegal entry 
into the country. It includes an integrated command structure, working with other 
government departments and near-Europe partners supported by the Border Force cutter 
˙eet. In addition, Border Force has purchased new capability, in the form of coastal patrol 
vessels (CPV).
˜ese new boats have been purchased by Border Force to complement the work being 
done by its cutters and are being introduced in a phased approach. ˜e ˝rst was deployed 
in early October. ˜ey are smaller than the cutters and far more nimble and responsive. 
˜e CPVs™ unique capabilities, speed and size, will allow them to provide an enhanced 
level of responsiveness in cross-Channel, Channel Islands and estuarine areas, releasing 
the cutters to complete longer-range operations around the coast. ˜e purchase of this 
additional capability forms part of Border Force™s long term strategic planning which 
will enable it to support operations in the maritime sector. ˜is has helped ensure that 
Border Force and its partner organisations are well prepared for any increase in attempts 
by migrants to use small boats to circumvent border security and enter the UK illegally.
Border Force and operational partners are conducting intelligence-led activity on a 
number of fronts to prevent migrants from entering the UK via clandestine and illegal 
means. Building an e˚ective intelligence picture and understanding is essential to combat 
both opportunistic individuals and Organised Crime Groups (OCGs) who would seek to 
circumvent UK entrance procedures and requirements. Border Force is investing in better 
lines of communication with commercial maritime partners and improving the methods 
by which vessels can report concerns or issues, including the provision of databases and 
registers of small ships and their movements.
Border Force has also established a Maritime Information Bureau, attached to the 
National Maritime Information Centre (NMIC), and a General Aviation Information 
Bureau to coordinate all maritime and GA intelligence ˙ows respectively and to inform 
multi-agency operational responses aimed at securing the UK border.
˜is is supported by public facing intelligence work. Project Kraken, a joint initiative, 
led by Border Force and supported by the NCA, the police, the Marine Management 
Organisation and others, encourages the commercial and leisure shipping industry and 
the public to report suspicious activity in the general maritime domain, whilst Project 
Pegusus ful˝ls a similar role in the general aviation domain. Both projects will raise 
 6 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 awareness in local communities to the threat of illegal immigration, draw stakeholders 
together via an engagement strategy, and develop a more e˚ective methodology for 
intelligence sharing, so that assets and resource can be deployed to deliver greatest e˚ect.
Border Force, the NCA and other law enforcement organisations are also working 
together with international partners to disrupt and prosecute the OCGs that facilitate 
most attempts by migrants to enter the UK illegally. ˜is is supported by new operational 
command structures with our French, Belgian and Dutch counterparts to deliver real-
time sharing of intelligence focussing on the disruption of OCGs and cross-Channel 
illegal migration. ˜is activity includes, for example, work with the French authorities to 
dissuade opportunistic migrants from attempting to cross the channel and close working 
with Belgian and Dutch authorities to ensure ports such as Zeebrugge and Hook of 
Holland are secured. Word of mouth advisors in the camps in Calais and Dunkirk inform 
the migrant population about the dangers of the Channel and the likely consequences. 
And Border Force has developed enhanced intelligence pathways with French, Dutch 
and Belgian law enforcement partners over the summer and again in preparation for the 
Calais camp clearances. ˜e pathways have now been embedded as business as usual. 
For instance, there is a live chat line between Cherbourg coastguard and the NMIC to 
exchange intelligence in real time
Very little irregular migration has been detected via General Aviation, but Border Force 
is con˝dent it is appropriately managing the risk. All small aircraˆ should inform Border 
Force of their route and arrival time, and work is in hand to mandate the submission of 
data exclusively by electronic means.
Humanitarian conditions in Calais camps
˚e initial prompt for our inquiry was the issue of border security in relation to Calais 
and Dunkirk that arose in summer 2015. However, our concerns range much more 
widely than that. ˚at there are uno˙cial migrant camps at the border of two of 
Europe™s wealthiest nations is a matter of serious regret and concern. A wide range of 
the evidence submitted to us by experts and volunteers con˜rms that the conditions 
in the camps are absolutely atrocious and are directly causing su˛ering and ill health 
for many residents. In a letter to this Committee in July 2015, the then Immigration 
Minister con˜rmed that the information he had from France was that the most 
common ˜ve nationalities of migrants at Calais were Syrian, Eritrean, Sudanese, 
Iranian and Iraqi. Written submissions highlighted the number of camp residents, 
including children, who have family members in the UK or other ties to this country. It 
is clear that there are many people in these camps entitled to humanitarian protection 
or refugee status, including some who should have their claims processed in the UK. 
(Paragraph 34)
Taken with:
We require much more information on the work the French and UK governments are 
undertaking to improve conditions at the camps, and to ensure all who are entitled 
to humanitarian protection or refugee status obtain itŠand are able to do so swiˆly. 
˚e Government should set out what fraction of the sums invested in Calais have been 
used in this way, as opposed to strengthening border security. Ultimately, we are yet to 
 7 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 see any evidence of a strategy designed to deliver a long-term solution to the presence 
of these camps, and both governments must work together urgently to deliver one. 
(Paragraph 35)
˜e French Government has con˝rmed that the operation to clear the camp in Calais 
has been successful. ˜e clearance was a necessary humanitarian operation and we have 
supported the French in their objectives to clear the camp. We have long agreed with the 
French Government that no one should live in those conditions.
We have been working closely with the French authorities to bring children eligible to 
come to the UK under the Dublin Regulation and the wider criteria of the Immigration 
Act since the clearance of the camp. Our focus has always been to transfer these children 
as soon as possible and ensuring their safe arrival.
In 2016, we transferred over 900 unaccompanied minors to the UK from Europe, including 
more than 750 from France as part of the UK™s support for the Calais camp clearance. ˜is 
was almost half of the unaccompanied children who were in the camp at the time of the 
clearance. Many of the children have been reunited with family members already in the 
UK, while others are being cared for by local authorities across the UK. ˜e remaining 
children are in the care of the French authorities. More eligible children will be transferred 
from Europe, in line with the terms of the Immigration Act, in the coming months and 
we will continue to meet our obligations under the Dublin Regulation.
During the operation to clear the camp, French authorities moved children from Calais 
to over 60 specialist facilities across France. Home O˛ce sta˚ liaised with the French 
authorities during this process and were on the buses that leˆ Calais. Specialist UK sta˚, 
along with social workers and interpreters, were deployed to centres across France to 
resume assessments under the Dublin Regulation or the wider criteria of the Immigration 
Act 2016 (Dubs Amendment).
As a key part of the operation to clear the camp in Calais, the French Government, with 
support from the UK, provided migrants in Calais, including women and children, with 
alternative accommodation elsewhere in France. ˜is includes more than 160 new centres 
away from Calais to help migrants with their asylum options. During the operation to 
clear the camp, over 5,000 adults departed from the camp to reception centres across 
France.
We have invested tens of millions of pounds as part of our joint strategy to resolve the 
situation in Calais. Under the Joint Declaration of 20 August 2015, the UK is providing •5 
million (£3.6 million) per year for two years towards providing migrants with alternative 
accommodation in France. In addition to this, on 3 March 2016, the then Prime Minister 
announced that the UK would contribute £17 million towards management of the 
migration situation in France, including for the provision of reception facilities.
˜e UK Government is also making a further contribution of up to £36 million to support 
the camp clearance in Calais and to ensure in the long term that the camp is kept closed. 
˜is funding will also be used to help keep children safe in France. As the Home Secretary 
made clear in her statement to the House on 24 October, this contribution is not made 
unconditionally, and we will continue to work with the French Government to ensure that 
the clearance operation is full and lasting.
 8 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 Managing migration ˜ows
Migration into Europe has been a long-standing challenge for EU countries, including 
the UK. However, the situation has now become a crisis, in large part because of the 
Syrian war, and the continuing instability in Libya and other parts of North Africa. 
Although current migration ˝ows are a continuation of patterns that have ebbed and 
changed over many years, the current numbers of people seeking to move into Europe 
are unprecedented in modern times. ˚e Archbishop of Canterbury has described the 
scale of the crisis as ﬁcolossalﬂ. Syrian refugees present the most acute and numerous 
challenge, but there are other countries from which migrants continue to ˝ow in large 
numbers.
 (Paragraph 46)
Taken with:
˚e EU and its Member States failed to anticipate the scale of migrant ˝ows, and did 
not have the structures and mechanisms in place to cope. As a result, the EU has been 
too slow to respond in a coordinated way. ˚e EU™s March 2016 agreement with Turkey 
on return of migrants is arguably a ˜rst step towards a meaningful response but it has 
come far too late and is itself highly controversial for a number of reasons. Further 
action is urgently required to ensure that vulnerable people seeking refuge do not 
su˛er further exploitation by criminals, accompanied by fear, harm and the current 
high risk of death.
 (Paragraph 47)
˜e Government recognises the signi˝cance of the recent ˙ows, and the impacts of both 
the Syrian con˙ict and the situation in Libya on these. We also agree on the particular 
challenge and the acute importance of addressing ˙ows from Syria and the region. 
˜e Government™s prioritisation of this issue is clear, and includes our leading role in 
providing humanitarian aid and in ensuring a coordinated international response, with a 
UK commitment of £2.3 billion in response to the Syria con˙ict.
˜e UK regards the EUŒTurkey agreement, which aims to break the people smugglers™ 
business model and reduce the number of illegal border crossings from Turkey to the EU, 
as a key element of the EU™s approach to migration in that region and is committed to 
its successful implementation. To date, the Statement has been instrumental in reducing 
the ˙ow of migrants across the Aegean and stemming the loss of life. However, the 
EUŒTurkey deal is not the ˝rst step towards a meaningful response to the situation in the 
Mediterranean. ˜e UK has been working with EU and other international partners on 
an enhanced, coordinated response to ˙ows since the deaths o˚ Lampedusa in October 
2013, following which the EU brought forward its ˝rst coordinated response (the ‚Task 
Force for the Mediterranean™). Since that time we have played a signi˝cant practical role in 
supporting and shaping that response, in particular by working upstream with countries 
of origin and transit to address the drivers of migration, and supporting e˚orts at the EU™s 
external borders.
˜e Government believes that practical and political action within the a˚ected regions 
remains at the heart of helping the majority of the many millions of displaced individuals 
across the globe. ˜at is why we have prioritised humanitarian assistance in a˚ected 
crisis regions: an e˚ective and sustainable solution relies on coherent e˚orts to reduce 
the push factors behind refugee and migrant journeys; build stability; create livelihoods; 
support ˝rst countries of asylum; and break the business model of the criminal gangs and 
 9 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 tra˛cking networks pro˝ting from human misery. ˜e UK has led the way in seeking 
such a comprehensive and sustainable response, which will provide the greatest impact 
to the most number of people in need, and shaping a new approach to protracted crises, 
including through the London Syria Conference.
Alongside these e˚orts upstream, the Government is also providing signi˝cant assistance 
to EU Member States facing particular pressures. ˜e UK has already provided more 
resource to the European Asylum Support O˛ce (EASO) than any other EU country, in 
addition to bilateral support to countries such as Italy and Greece to help build their asylum 
capacity. We also continue to provide signi˝cant practical support to Frontex operations, 
including through our Organised Immigration Crime Taskforce, and are providing £70 
million to the Mediterranean Migration Crisis response. ˜is humanitarian responseŠ
to which the UK is the largest bilateral donorŠprovides life-saving aid to migrants and 
refugees, including shelter, water and sanitation, food, medical care, and protection 
services for the most vulnerable; and builds the capacity of host governments to manage 
arrivals.
Support to source countries
We strongly endorse a coordinated approach to the provision of support to those 
countries around Syria, which are doing so much to ful˜l their moral obligation to take 
in large numbers of refugees, including Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. In the absence of 
realistic prospects of the impacts of the con˝ict coming to an end in the near future, 
the UK™s contribution to humanitarian relief is warmly welcomed, and maintaining it 
is essential. However, providing such aid does not absolve the UK from also providing 
more direct support for the thousands of Syrian refugees who have already arrived 
in Europe, particularly those whom the UK Government, in di˛erent circumstances, 
would consider to be vulnerable and therefore deserving refuge.
 (Paragraph 50)
˜e UK has been at the forefront of the response to the crisis in Syria and the region. At 
the February Syria conference in London on 4 February, the UK announced we will more 
than double our support in response to the Syria crisis from £1.12 billion to over £2.3 
billion, our largest ever humanitarian response to a single crisis.
˜is support will also give people a chance for the future. Commitments made at the 
conference in London will create an estimated 1.1 million jobs for refugees and host country 
citizens in the region by 2018, and ensure that, by the end of the 2016/17 school year, 1.7 
million childrenŠall refugee children and vulnerable children in host communitiesŠ
will be in quality education with equal access for girls and boys.
Across the world we are using our aid programmes to reduce the drivers that force people 
to move irregularly and harness the development bene˝ts of migration. Our focus on 
tackling the root causes of migration in Africa includes opportunities that better managed 
migration presents for reducing poverty, creating jobs and improving the investment 
climate, and supports our ambition to lead a new international approach to handling 
protracted crises. We believe that our o˚er will increase the bene˝ts of migrating within 
Africa, and provide hope for forcibly displaced populations, which may in turn reduce the 
incentives to migrate irregularly to Europe.
 10 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 Resettlement of Syrian refugees
˚e UK Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme has started well, and there are 
signs that the co-operation necessary between central Government, local authorities, 
and the various agencies involved is working e˙ciently. We reiterate our support 
for the Government™s commitment to receive 20,000 Syrian refugees by 2020 and 
our appreciation of the e˛orts of all those who worked to achieve the target of 1,000 
arriving by Christmas 2015, and we commend the then Minister for Syrian Refugees 
for achieving this.
 (Paragraph 57)
Taken with:
However, it is clear from the recently published statistics that more local authorities 
need to contribute to providing asylum accommodation, including for Syrian refugees. 
˚ere is now a two-tier system among local authorities, with some providing support 
to Syrian refugees and others not doing so. A similar two-tier system applies in the 
level of support local authorities provide for other asylum-seekers. ˚e Government 
needs to be much more proactive in encouraging a fair distribution of asylum seekers 
throughout the country and Ministers should take the lead on this, by encouraging 
their own local authorities to take their fair share of refugees.
 (Paragraph 58)
Taken with:
˚ose who come to the UK under the Syrian Vulnerable Persons Resettlement 
Scheme are only given humanitarian protection for ˜ve years. We are concerned 
that the Government appears to be moving towards a system of limited time periods 
for providing refuge, which may not wholly meet its obligations under the 1951 
UN Convention on the status of refugees. ˚e situation in Syria should be reviewed 
comprehensively once the ˜ve-year point is approaching for any refugee.
 (Paragraph 59)
˜e Government remains ˝rmly committed to meeting our target of resettling 20,000 
Syrian refugees by 2020. A total of 4,414 people have been resettled since the Syrian 
VPRS began, including 4,162 arriving since October 2015. We welcome the Committee™s 
acknowledgement of the progress made. We remain on track to meet the commitment to 
resettle 20,000 by the end of this Parliament.
We continue to work with local authorities to identify opportunities to resettle Syrian 
families as part of the VPR scheme as well as vulnerable children and their families as part 
of the Vulnerable Children™s Resettlement Scheme. Some authorities have not resettled any 
refugees in the initial stages but have committed to resettle people in the future. We are 
determined to ensure that no local authority is asked to take more than the local structures 
are able to cope with. For this reason we ask local authorities to consider carefully whether 
they have the infrastructure and support networks needed to ensure the appropriate care 
and integration of these refugees before telling us how many individuals they believe they 
are able to resettle. We want to ensure that capacity can be identi˝ed and the impact 
on those accepting families under this scheme can be managed in a fair and controlled 
way. Between the start of October 2015 and the end of September 2016 175 di˚erent local 
authorities had resettled Syrian refugees. To date more than 200 have made ˝rm o˚ers of 
places with additional local authorities signed up in principle to support the scheme over 
the course of this Parliament. ˜e level of support provided to individuals arriving via 
 11 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 our resettlement schemes re˙ects the fact that they have been referred for resettlement to 
the UK by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) on account of 
their particular vulnerability.
We are working closely with local authorities and Strategic Migration Partnerships 
on plans to expand the number of local authorities who participate in the dispersal 
arrangements for asylum seekers. Asylum seekers are currently accommodated in over 
110 areas across the UK, but some local authorities are accommodating a larger share of 
the asylum seeking population than others. We have made a good deal of progress, with a 
number of new local authorities having signed up in recent months, but there is still more 
to do.
˜ose who are resettled under the Syrian VPR scheme are granted limited leave for 
˝ve years and can apply for settlement in the UK once they have completed that initial 
period of leave. ˜is is the same for individuals who are granted asylum or humanitarian 
protection in the UK. In all such cases when they apply for settlement we will review their 
case to assess whether or not they still need international protection. For Syrian VPR 
cases this review will involve an assessment of the situation in Syria. ˜ose who still need 
protection will normally be granted settlement. ˜is fully complies with our international 
obligations under the Refugee Convention to provide protection for as long as it is needed.
Safe and legal routes into Europe
˚e Government has said that it will not take part in the current EU schemes to relocate 
or resettle refugees. ˚is is because it does not wish to participate in any initiative that 
might act as a magnet for those seeking refuge and thereby encourage them to risk 
taking dangerous routes to try to reach the UK. We accept this approach. In these 
circumstances, we would ask the Government to explain whether it is considering any 
expansion of safe and legal routes, such as humanitarian visas, for those from con˝ict 
regions seeking protection, as advocated by the Archbishop of Canterbury and a wide 
range of expert NGOs and others. ˚e Government should also make clear how its 
response to the migrant crisis is providing protection for refugees other than Syrians 
in the UK, without provision in place for them to travel to the UK to apply for asylum. 
(Paragraph 65)
Taken with:
˚e Chair of Migration Watch, Lord Green of Deddington, accepted in evidence to us 
that the UK is not yet ﬁfullﬂ in relation to migration. ˚e Archbishop of Canterbury 
agreed that the UK was not full and believed that, with ﬁcareful preparation and good 
policyﬂ, including the necessary resources being provided to local communities, the 
UK had the capacity to ful˜l its moral obligation to accept more refugees ˝eeing war 
zones and catastrophes, as well as asylum-seekers. We share this view.
 (Paragraph 67)
˜e Government ˝rmly believes that our focus needs to be on providing support to 
countries facing particular pressures through humanitarian aid to help the large numbers 
of refugees who remain in the region. We believe this is the best way to provide much 
needed support to the majority of those facing persecution, whilst o˚ering resettlement 
for the most vulnerable.
 12 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 We operate several safe and legal routes into the UK through our resettlement schemes, 
working closely with the UNHCR to resettle the most vulnerable refugees who cannot 
be supported in the region. ˜ere are four speci˝c resettlement schemes in operation: 
Gateway, Mandate, the Syrian Vulnerable Persons Resettlement (VPR) scheme and the 
Vulnerable Children™s Resettlement scheme.
˜rough the Syrian VPR scheme we are helping those in greatest need, including people 
who need urgent medical treatment, survivors of violence and torture, and women and 
children at risk. We have committed to resettle 20,000 Syrians during this Parliament and 
are working closely with UNHCR to identify vulnerable Syrians that they deem in need of 
resettlement whose particular needs can only be met in countries like the UK.
˜e Vulnerable Children™s Resettlement scheme has been designed with the UNHCR 
to resettle children at risk from the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. ˜e 
Government has committed to resettling several hundred individuals in the ˝rst year 
with a view to resettling up to 3,000 over the lifetime of this Parliament. Children will 
be resettled with their parents or carers where relevant. We have followed the UNHCR™s 
advice not to focus solely on resettling unaccompanied refugee children as this is likely to 
create a pull factor and may encourage families to send their children across alone.
In addition, we have resettled over 7,300 refugees under the Gateway resettlement 
programme since 2004 and the Mandate refugee scheme is also open to refugees who 
have close family members in the UK who are able to support them here. Whilst the 
Syrian VPR scheme is focussed on Syrian nationals, our other resettlement schemes are 
not restricted by nationality.
We will continue with our approach of taking refugees from the region. ˜is provides 
refugees with a more direct and safe route to the UK, rather than risking hazardous 
journeys into and across Europe. But those in need of protection must ˝rst register with 
UNHCR or claim asylum with the national authorities in the ˝rst safe country they reach. 
We continue to use the established UNHCR process for identifying and resettling refugees.
We also support the principle of family unity and have several routes for families to be 
reunited safely. Our family reunion policy allows a spouse or partner and children under 
the age of 18 of those granted protection in the UK to join them here, if they formed 
part of the family unit before the sponsor ˙ed their country. Under this policy we have 
reunited over 22,000 refugees with their immediate families over the last ˝ve years.
However, we are under no obligation to consider asylum claims lodged outside UK 
territory or allow people to travel here to claim asylum and it would not be appropriate 
to do so. All asylum claims lodged in the UK are carefully considered on their individual 
merits and we grant protection to those who need it, in accordance with our international 
obligations under the Refugee Convention. Signatory states are under no obligation to 
consider claims lodged outside their territory. ˜ose who need international protection 
should claim in the ˝rst safe country they reach, by approaching the relevant national 
authorities or the local o˛ce of the UNHCR for helpŠas that is the fastest route to safety. 
Encouraging refugees to claim asylum in the ˝rst safe country means that vulnerable 
people will receive help more quickly rather than risking their lives on dangerous journeys 
into and across Europe or falling victim to criminal gangs exploiting the situation.
 13 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 Control of EU external borders
Control of the EU™s external borders is critical to an e˛ective approach to the migration 
crisis, which is resulting in such high migratory ˝ows. Large numbers of unregistered 
migrants moving into the Schengen area exacerbates existing security threats and risks 
undermining migration controls in other countries, including the UK. Members of the 
Schengen area need to agree whether control of external borders is the responsibility of 
the frontline state or is a collective EU responsibility to which they all contribute. We 
have noted that some Member States have implemented their own passport controls 
within the Schengen area, in breach of the Schengen principles and no doubt due to a 
lack of faith in the integrity of the external Schengen border.
 (Paragraph 77)
Taken with:
We welcome the proposals put forward by the European Commission to reform 
Frontex, the agency charged with protecting the EU™s external borders. We believe 
these reforms would have a positive impact in empowering the new European Border 
and Coast Guard Agency to take e˛ective action when individual Member States are 
unable or unwilling to do so. ˚is would not a˛ect the UK™s role directly, even while 
it remains in the EU, as it is not a full member of Schengen. However, the UK does 
provide sta˛ and equipment to work with Frontex and its support for the EU™s Rapid 
Intervention Border Teams (RABIT) has always been welcomed. ˚e Government 
should make clear how it intends to engage with the new EU border agency and how its 
engagement will di˛er from its current relationship with Frontex once the UK leaves 
the EU. We also recommend that the UK remain a key player in Europol from outside 
the EU, as the US is now.
 (Paragraph 78)
On the security and integrity of the Schengen Area, the Government supports work by 
the Schengen States to strengthen the EU™s external borders. Schengen States and the 
Commission place great emphasis and resources on initiatives such the new European 
Border and Coast Guard, and Smart Borders, which includes a proposal for an Entry Exit 
System at the external Schengen border. Further proposed amendments to the Schengen 
Borders Code will allow for the strengthening of checks at the external Schengen border.
Pending these new measures being in place, ˝ve Schengen States have reintroduced their 
border controls. ˜ey have exercised their right to reinstate their internal borders through 
the legal mechanism contained in the Schengen Borders Code, for security reasons. ˜ese 
Schengen States have made clear that EU citizens can still move freely but checks are 
being conducted on all people crossing these borders for security reasons. ˜erefore while 
migrants are already required to be identi˝ed, checked and processed according to agreed 
EU asylum procedures, they are now also subject to Schengen Area security checking 
processes. In compliance with the mechanisms in the Schengen Borders Code, the controls 
have been extended to November this year with the agreement of the Commission and 
all Schengen States. France has also reinstated its border controls with its neighbours as a 
result of the Paris attacks and ongoing security threats, again under the legal mechanism 
contained in the Schengen Borders Code. ˜e UK is not part of the Schengen Area but will 
continue to watch all of these developments closely.
 14 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 ˜e UK has supported plans for the new European Border and Coast Guard Agency 
which replaced Frontex in October. ˜e UK will not take part in the European Border and 
Coast Guard as it is a Schengen building measure however there is provision for the UK 
to cooperate with the new agency as we do currently with Frontex. ˜e UK continues to 
provide resource to Frontex operations on an ad hoc basis by mutual consent. Rapid Border 
Interventions (RABITs) are now provided for as an integral part of the new Regulation, 
removing the obstacle which has led to recent di˛culties for the UK taking part in RABITs. 
˜e UK sees cooperation with Frontex and the new agency as an important part of our 
work with European partners to tackle the migration crisis and improve the security of 
the EU™s external border. We remain committed to ensuring this cooperation is e˚ective 
and in preparation for the UK™s withdrawal from the EU, we are considering the UK™s 
position in respect of our future cooperation with the new Agency.
˜e Government is committed to continue law enforcement cooperation when the UK is 
outside the EU and will do what is necessary to keep our people safe. We are exploring 
options for cooperation arrangements with Europol once the UK has leˆ the EU but it is 
too early to speculate at this stage what future arrangements may look like.
Tackling migrant smuggling across sea borders
˚e Government has supported both Frontex search and rescue operations in the 
Mediterranean and NATO operations aimed at disrupting migrant smuggling in the 
Aegean by deploying Royal Navy, Border Force and other vessels. We welcome these 
deployments although, given the low number of Border Force vessels in operation, it 
is important that this does not detract from their crucial role in policing the Channel. 
It is not acceptable for EU Member States to leave these essential tasks to the countries 
most a˛ected, including Italy, Greece and Turkey. All EU national governments should 
share the burden and contribute to disrupting the activities and destroying the boats 
and equipment of criminal elements who are the source of much of the migrant crisis, 
and who are the only party in this crisis to have gained from the su˛ering of vulnerable 
people.
 (Paragraph 85)
Taken with:
Although the deployments to date have saved lives, it is clear that they are not yet 
achieving their primary task of deterring migrant ˝ows and disrupting smuggling 
networks. ˚e response has been too slow and more robust and urgent collective action 
by EU countries is needed, with a clear mandate to deal with high-level criminality. 
Libya has now become the main departure point for illegal migration across the 
Mediterranean and the focus should be on preventing boats leaving north Africa in the 
˜rst place. For the action to be limited to rescuing people from the sea and collecting 
drowned bodies, as it seems to be at present, is wholly unacceptable.
 (Paragraph 86)
Taken with:
As we enter high summer, the then Prime Minister™s announcement in May that a 
Royal Navy vessel was being sent to address migrant ˝ows from Libya appears to have 
stalled. Moreover, the approach taken by the then Foreign Secretary in respect of Libya, 
where a reported 500,000 people are waiting to cross the Mediterranean illegally, is 
complacent. Given the UK™s involvement in the Libyan civil war and in the rebuilding 
 15 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 and reconciliation e˛orts which have followed, the EU should be able to o˛er Libya a 
deal, with substantial funding provided to tackle people smuggling at the points of 
departure, and access to Libyan territorial waters for European country vessels agreed 
in return.
 (Paragraph 87)
We share the Committee™s view that it is essential to disrupt the activities of the criminal 
gangs responsible for putting so many lives at risk. For that reason, the Government remains 
committed to ensuring that Operation Sophia meets its primary task of deterring migrant 
˙ows and disrupting smuggling networks. ˜at is also why the Foreign A˚airs Council 
refreshed the operation™s mandate in June 2016 to include training the Libyan Coastguard. 
˜is training has now commenced. We, and the EU, are working closely with the new 
Government of National Accord to tackle migration from Libya, and to deliver security 
and stability for the Libyan people. Multinational Libyan Coastguard capacity building 
under Operation Sophia commenced on 27 October, delayed by the late nomination of 
Libyan personnel by the Libyan authorities, and the UK is committed to provide sta˚ 
to help deliver this training. We have also provided military planners to the operational 
headquarters in Rome. Enhancing the capabilities of the Libyan authorities will allow 
them to take more e˚ective action against the smuggling networks. We continue to work 
with Libya on expanding our cooperation, but it is important to note that inviting foreign 
naval vessels to operate inside its territorial waters is politically sensitive within Libya.
We are also tackling the criminal gangs through our Organised Immigration Crime 
Taskforce, exploiting every opportunity to identify and tackle organised crime groups 
at source, in transit countries and in Europe. ˜e Taskforce is currently operating in 17 
countries and has already successfully disrupted crime groups involved in immigration 
crime by participating in intelligence development and sharing, as well as arrests and 
prosecutions.
We do not agree that EU Member States are leaving the essential tasks of disrupting 
migrant smuggling to the most a˚ected countries. For example, 21 countries participated 
in Op Sophia, with Belgium, Germany and Spain each committing a frigate, and Spain, 
Luxembourg and France providing maritime patrol aircraˆ. ˜e UK has also made a 
substantial contribution: HMS Enterprise has been deployed to Operation Sophia 
since July 2015; HMS Richmond was deployed during a surge of assets in October and 
November 2015; and RFA Mounts Bay has been deployed since 27 July 2016 and will 
remain committed until November 2016. ˜e common costs of the operation, which total 
•11.82 million for the one-year mandate, are split amongst all Member States. To date 
October 2016, Operation Sophia (Op Sophia) has destroyed over 300 smuggling boats 
on the high seas, apprehended over 95 suspected smugglers and successfully saved over 
29,300 lives.
In addition, we have also provided signi˝cant resource to the EU™s Operation Triton, 
including two Border Force cutters from May 2015 to September 2015, saving 1,650 lives. 
More recently, Border Force have deployed a chartered ship in the Central Mediterranean, 
which has saved a further 695 people to date. Since late November 2015 Border Force has 
also deployed a chartered ship in the Aegean, supplemented by the deployment of the 
cutter HMC Protector from March 2016. To date Border Force operations in the Aegean 
Sea have saved 8,163 people. During these deployments, Border Force has still maintained 
a three vessel capability in UK waters, supported by Royal Navy and Royal Navy Reserve 
crew.
 16 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 Dublin regulations
Application of the provisions of the Dublin Convention has a direct impact on UK 
migration controls because many of the migrants and refugees who arrive illegally in 
Calais with the aim of making an asylum claim in the UK will have passed through 
another EU state. ˚e existing Dublin regulations were not designed for a crisis such 
as the present one, and the European Commission has proposed to improve them with 
a revised scheme designed to ensure that responsibility for processing asylum claims 
does not rest disproportionately with frontline states but instead, when required, is 
shared by EU members. ˚e UK indicated that it would oppose any such changes to the 
Dublin regulations, even putting aside the question of its exit from the EU. Regardless 
of whether these changes proceed, proper systems for registering and tracking migrants 
need to be in place as part of the Dublin arrangements and an e˛ective ˜ngerprinting 
system is crucial for this. However, it is unfair for EU countries that are distant from 
the current points of arrival in the EU to criticise the main arrival countries for not 
implementing ˜ngerprinting requirements e˛ectively, given the vast numbers that 
they have been leˆ to cope with, with inadequate support.
 (Paragraph 94)
˜e Government™s position remains that we support the existing principles of the Dublin 
Regulation, particularly the underlying principle that an individual should claim asylum 
in the ˝rst safe country they reach. We are considering the European Commission™s 
proposal to amend the Regulation, and as with other Justice and Home A˚airs measures, 
we have an opt-in decision to take on UK participation. ˜e Eurodac Regulation exists as 
the ˝ngerprint database to ensure proper registering and tracking of migrants as part of 
Dublin arrangements. It is important for all EU Member States to fully comply with the 
Eurodac Regulation.
We believe that Member States at the external border experiencing large volumes of 
migrant arrivals should be expected to comply with the obligations that they have agreed 
to collectively in the area of freedom, security and justice. Member States under particular 
pressure are supported extensively by the European Commission, European Asylum 
Support O˛ce (EASO) and NGOs. ˜e UK continues to provide bilateral support to 
countries such as Greece and signi˝cant resource to EASO as part of the collective e˚ort 
to build asylum and border capability in Member States under pressure.
EU hotspot initiative
If it can be made to work e˛ectively, the EU™s hotspot initiative will go some way to 
recognising that individual frontline countries cannot be leˆ to bear the brunt of vast 
migration ˝ows. For the hotspots to be a success, commitment and practical support 
is required from all EU members, and from the UK, for sta˛, equipment and other 
necessary resources. Greece and Italy cannot be blamed if the hotspots remain under-
sta˛ed and under-resourced. We welcome the practical support provided by the UK to 
date. It should be noted that the UK has opted out of the EU scheme for dealing with 
the migration crisis and that its unilateral commitments are currently limited mainly 
to the 20,000 Syrians refugees it has agreed to accept by 2020.
 (Paragraph 104)
As noted in the report, the Government does not support relocation of asylum seekers 
between EU Member States as we believe it is the wrong response to the unprecedented 
 17 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 migratory pressures. It undermines the important principle that asylum should be claimed 
in the ˝rst safe country, does not address the causes of illegal migration and simply seeks 
to move the problem around Europe. ˜e Government remains of this view.
˜e Government supports the principle of border hotspots and, although the UK is not 
participating in relocation mechanisms, swiˆ and e˚ective implementation of hotspots 
remains a priority. In our view the hotspots should contribute to better management of 
the EU™s external border with more focus being given to the rapid return of those without 
a legitimate asylum claim and reducing secondary movement. We believe it is important 
that hotspots do not focus exclusively on facilitating relocation but ful˝l this wider 
border security objective. ˜ey also have an important role in supporting delivery of the 
EUŒTurkey agreement to return asylum seekers from the Greek islands to Turkey where 
it safe to do so.
To assist in dealing with migrant in˙ux the UK will continue to provide support to Italy 
and Greece bilaterally and through EASO. We have already provided resource in response 
to EASO™s original call for Member State support in hotspots. In addition to deploying sta˚ 
to speci˝c hotspot sites, UK personnel have also been deployed to the Dublin units in both 
Greece and Italy. ˜e UK has o˚ered 75 expert personnel to support the implementation 
of the EUŒTurkey deal including sta˚ to help with the processing of migrants and acting 
as interpreters. We are one of the largest contributors of resource to the Greek islands, 
providing both interpreters and expert sta˚ to help process migrants.
EU border security and terrorist attacks
In the context of the current intense security threats to EU countries, it is clearly in 
the interest of all countries for there to be e˛ective security checks at EU external 
borders. Although the measures taken by the UK since the Paris attacks are welcome, 
no country can expect to be able to protect its borders alone against those who wish 
to do harm. ˚e UK needs its European neighbours, and the countries on the EU 
external borders, to take equally rigorous steps. Terrorists do not see national borders 
as a barrier to their barbarism and people with illegal or lethal intent will continue to 
try to ˜nd ways through any security system. Cooperation and continued vigilance are 
necessary.
 (Paragraph 114)
Taken with:
˚e Greek Ambassador to the UK told us that one of the Paris terrorists crossed from 
Turkey to Greece and was then able to travel on within the EU, and that another had a 
Syrian passport. ˚e additional checks against security databases which the European 
Commission has proposed are welcome. ˚ese should be enforced, in addition to 
passport checks, for both EU and non-EU nationals. Equipment should be available 
at all EU external borders for the ˜ngerprinting of migrants on arrival and then for 
background-checking to be carried out before they cross the border. Any increased 
delays at border crossings which this may cause may just have to be accepted, in the 
face of the continued threat of terrorists managing to evade EU border checks, as two 
of the Paris attackers appear to have done.
 (Paragraph 115)
Increasing the security of the EU external border is of direct bene˝t to the UK and we 
have been strongly supportive of the European Commission™s proposals in this area. 
 18 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 ˜e proposal to strengthen checks carried out on those crossing the external border will 
bring the level of checks in line with those already conducted at the UK border. As this 
is a Schengen building measure, the UK will not participate in this proposal; however 
EU Member States in the Schengen zone will be obliged to conduct systematic entry 
and exit checks at the external Schengen border on EU nationals and their families and 
also on third country nationals on exit (third country nationals are already checked on 
entry). ˜ese checks will apply to all external air, sea and land borders. ˜e UK agrees 
that equipment should be made available at all EU external borders for the ˝ngerprinting 
of migrants on arrival and then for conducting background checks. An Entry Exit 
System has been proposed by the Commission as part of the Smart Borders package, 
to modernise the Schengen Area™s external border management. ˜e proposed system 
will electronically collect data and register entry and exit records. ˜is will include the 
collection of biometric data. Again, while the UK will not be part of the new Entry Exit 
System due to our position outside of Schengen, we support this proposal as a further step 
towards increasing the security of the external Schengen border.
Additionally, following the Paris attacks in February last year, the Commission produced 
informal recommendations on checks of travel documents, including phasing out non-
machine readable national ID cards. ˜e UK welcomes these recommendations and has 
urged the Commission to take urgent action in supporting the Member States to update 
their identi˝cation documents in line with recommendations from the International Civil 
Aviation Organisation.
The EU Agreement with Turkey
˚e EUŒTurkey agreement reached in March 2016 has resulted in a 90% decrease in the 
numbers of migrants arriving in Greece. However, concerns about the humanitarian, 
human rights, logistical and legal implications should not be ignored and the challenge 
for both Greece and Turkey in processing and moving the large numbers of people 
who have already reached Greece remains considerable. It is only just and fair that the 
EU countries which supported the agreement with Turkey should assist by providing 
sta˛, ˜nancial support and equipment. ˚e UK Government has already provided 
some support to Greece in the form of personnel and equipment. It should set out the 
ongoing contribution it plans to make, both through EU agencies while it remains a 
member of the EU, and bilaterally. Turkey got a good deal from the agreement with 
the EU and it would receive even greater credit from EU states if it did more to stop 
migrants crossing to Greece in the ˜rst place.
 (Paragraph 123)
˜e EUŒTurkey migration agreement is making a genuine di˚erence to managing the 
˙ows of migration, preventing people from dying in attempting the crossing or putting 
themselves in the hands of smugglers. ˜e number of migrants arriving on the Greek 
islands has signi˝cantly reduced, from an average of 2,000 per day in February 2016 to an 
average of 81 per day now.
˜e UK has played a leading role in supporting Greece to implement the Statement. 
In May, the previous Home Secretary announced a package of UK support to Greece 
consisting of up to 75 expert sta˚ to interview arriving migrants, act as interpreters and 
to support co-ordination through the European Commission team in Athens. Our teams 
 19 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 include experts in supporting vulnerable groups, such as unaccompanied asylum-seeking 
children and those trained to tackle people tra˛cking. ˜e ˝rst UK sta˚ arrived in Greece 
in early June, and this o˚er will be ful˝lled in January 2017.
˜e UK welcomes the Greek Government™s decision to trial the admissibility process with 
Afghan, Iraqi and Eritrean nationals to accelerate processing on the islands and increase 
returns to Turkey, and continues to encourage its application in full. ˜e UK has o˚ered 
an additional package to Greece under the EUŒTurkey deal to support this trial. Up to 
40 extra sta˚Šincluding ˙ow management experts, caseworkers and interpreters, and 
returns expertsŠwill be deployed over the winter period to support the admissibility 
process and ease overcrowding on the islands
Border Force has also been participating in Frontex operation POSEIDON in the Aegean, 
a separate operation which pre-dates the EUŒTurkey deal. HMC PROTECTOR is 
currently deployed amid the Greek islands and since May 2015 has been providing direct 
support to rescue operations in the Aegean. In response to Frontex calls for more support 
in the region, we are sending an additional cutter HMC VALIANT to the Aegean. She is 
currently en route to the Mediterranean and expected to commence operations in mid-
January.
˜e UK remains committed to ensuring the EUŒTurkey deal is implemented in an e˚ective 
and sustainable way in full accordance with EU and international law requirements. 
Turkey has modernised its legal framework for the protection of refugees and is now ably 
hosting over 3 million refugees, 2.7 million of whom are from Syria.
It was inevitable that the agreement to deport migrants back to Turkey from Greece 
would lead migrant smugglers to ˜nd other routes in the region which avoid Greece, 
and this has proved to be the case. ˚ere were hundreds of deaths of migrants making 
the crossing from North Africa to Italy during April and May and more deaths are 
likely during the high summer months. ˚e EU needs to take immediate, collective 
and comprehensive steps to tackle the new problems created by the displacement of 
migrants to other routes avoiding Turkey and Greece, which were entirely foreseeable. 
Ultimately all action to close o˛ irregular routes will be no more than partially 
successful, and sometimes counter-productive, particularly in the absence of su˙cient 
safe and legal routes. We give some consideration to this issue in the next chapter in 
relation to protecting vulnerable groups, but the recommendations there are also more 
widely applicable.
 (Paragraph 124)
We are constantly monitoring the situation, but so far the ˝gures do not suggest any 
signi˝cant route displacements. Whilst arrivals from North Africa to Italy were slightly 
higher in 2016 than 2015, the Central Mediterranean Route is not indicating displacement 
following the EUŒTurkey deal. Migrants using this route are largely from Sub-Saharan 
Africa, whereas migrants that used the Eastern Mediterranean Route (Turkey to Greece) 
were largely from Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq. We do not see these nationalities arriving 
in Italy via North Africa in signi˝cant numbers.
˜e Government is clear on its moral responsibility to assist those a˚ected by the migration 
crisis and is taking action to address irregular migration at multiple levels. ˜e UK believes 
it is better to prioritise interventions upstream in countries of origin and transit in ways 
that reduce the need of migrants to leave their home country or move on from a safe third 
 20 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 country in their region. We provided £4 billion in aid for Africa in 2015/16, including 
£540 million for economic development and £500 million on humanitarian support. In 
November 2015, the UK announced a further £200 million in bilateral aid to Africa to 
tackle the root causes of migration. Our priorities are increasingly focused on jobs and 
livelihoods. ˜e UK has recently, together with the Ethiopian Government, launched a 
‚jobs compact™ that gives opportunity and access to services and education to refugees in 
Ethiopian refugee camps.
At the Valletta Summit in November 2015, European and African leaders agreed a 
comprehensive Action Plan aimed at jointly tackling the migration crisis. Currently the 
UK is the Chair of the Khartoum Process, which considers the Horn of Africa under the 
Valletta Action Plan, and is focused on combating people smuggling and tra˛cking, and 
bolstering sustainable regional protection for refugees.
˜e UK has also sought to engage positively with the EU™s new ‚Partnership Frameworks™ 
on upstream migration, which look at Ethiopia, Nigeria, Niger, Mali and Senegal. ˜is 
aims to improve coordination between the activities of the EU and Member States in key 
migration source and transit countries.
Family reunion and unaccompanied child migrants
We accept the Government™s concern that allowing unaccompanied children to 
join family members already in the UK might create a ﬁpull factorﬂ, resulting in 
more vulnerable young people making dangerous journeys to try to reach the UK. 
We appreciate that these are sensitive and complex matters and that proper account 
needs to be taken of the legal and safeguarding requirements in the countries where 
unaccompanied children are currently located. We also acknowledge that some 
progress is being made on this. However, we agree with the Bishop of Durham that the 
157 unaccompanied children already in Calais who have family members in the UK 
ﬁshould already have arrivedﬂ in the UK. ˚e Government should, as a one-o˛ action, 
accept all of these children into the UK now.
 (Paragraph 131)
Taken with:
Large numbers of women and child migrants are making dangerous illegal journeys 
across the Mediterranean, in the hope of being reunited with family members in the 
EU. We welcome the UK Government™s recent announcement of schemes to resettle 
unaccompanied children, both from the Middle East and North Africa, and some who 
have already reached Europe. However, it is important that the local authorities who 
are required to take responsibility for unaccompanied refugee children are properly 
funded and supported to take on this additional burden, particularly given the high 
concentration of arrivals in a very small number of locations, particularly in Kent and 
the Heathrow airport area. ˚e Government should include steps to ensure the fair 
distribution of unaccompanied children across local authorities as part of the action 
we have called for in relation to dispersal of asylum-seekers.
 (Paragraph 134)
Taken with:
Family reunion of migrants has been shown to have bene˜ts in terms of integration and 
support networks, in addition to the human rights requirements of allowing families 
 21 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 to be together, and there is clear scope for further measures to facilitate women and 
children joining husbands, fathers and other male relatives who have reached the UK. 
We recommend that the UK Government increase its use of family reunion visas for 
refugee asylum cases, to make it easier for applications to be made in countries of 
origin and to help avoid women and children feeling obliged to attempt high-risk and 
illegal travel to Europe in order to be reunited with male relatives. We also recommend 
that the UK broaden the scope of family reunion rules, and work with expert NGOs to 
make it easier (including through provision of legal aid) and speedier for applications 
for family reunion visas to be made, particularly in countries of origin or their vicinity. 
(Paragraph 135)
˜e Government is genuinely concerned that the wrong kind of family reunion measures 
will lead to more children setting out unaccompanied on journeys that will put them at 
risk and welcomes the acknowledgement of this by the Committee.
˜e Government has considered policies in support of the principle of family unity. 
Several routes are in place for families to be reunited safely without the need for children 
to travel illegally to the UK. Our existing family reunion policy allows those granted 
refugee status or humanitarian protection in the UK to sponsor their spouse or partner 
and children under the age of 18, who formed part of the family unit before the sponsor 
˙ed their country, to reunite with them in the UK. Under this policy, we have granted 
around 22,000 family reunion visas over the past ˝ve yearsŠreuniting many refugees 
with their immediate family.
˜e Immigration Rules also allow those with refugee status or humanitarian protection 
to sponsor adult dependent relatives living overseas to join them here where, as a result 
of age, illness or disability, that person requires long-term personal care that can only be 
provided in the UK by their relative and without recourse to public funds. Where family 
members cannot meet the requirements of the Rules, such as in the case of an 18 year-old 
applying to join their refugee parents in the UK, we consider whether there are exceptional 
circumstances or compassionate reasons to justify granting entry clearance outside 
the Rules. ˜is not only caters for extended family members of refugees in exceptional 
circumstances, but also for family members of British citizens unable to meet the ˝nancial 
requirements of the Rules.
In addition, we now have dedicated resettlement schemes that serve to provide a safe 
and legal route to the UK for the most vulnerable refugees who are referred to us by the 
UNHCR.
We have noted the points made by the British Red Cross and others about the need to 
make it easier for genuine family reunion applications to be lodged and in response we 
have revised our family reunion guidance to provide greater clarity for applicants and 
their sponsors. ˜is should help overcome the di˛culties with clarity, so that applicants 
now understand the process and what is expected of them, making the process easier from 
their point of view. ˜e revised Home O˛ce guidance was published on 27 July and is 
available on Gov.UK at: 
https://www.gov.uk
/government/publications/family-reunion-instruction
 22 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 Our family reunion policy meets our international obligations and strikes the right 
balance between reuniting families and ensuring that our Rules are not more generous 
than other European countries, as this would encourage more people to risk their lives 
trying to reach the UK rather than claiming in the ˝rst safe country they reach.
In 2016, we transferred over 900 unaccompanied minors to the UK from Europe, 
including more than 750 from France as part of the UK™s support for the Calais camp 
clearanceŠalmost half of the unaccompanied children who were in the camp at the time 
of the clearance. Many have been reunited with family members already in the UK, while 
others are being cared for by local authorities across the UK. ˜e remaining children are 
in the care of the French authorities. ˜e current phase of transfers following the camp 
clearance has been concluded. ˜is was a planned process, done in conjunction with the 
French authorities. UK and French authorities on both sides of the Channel ensured that 
a safe, lawful and e˛cient process was in place to transfer eligible children to the UK as a 
matter of urgency. ˜e Government continued to seek every opportunity to expedite this 
process, working closely with our French partners and with their agreement.
More eligible children will be transferred from Europe, in line with the terms of the 
Immigration Act, in the coming months and we will continue to meet our obligations 
under the Dublin Regulation. ˜e process and criteria for the transfer of children from 
Europe under section 67 of the Immigration Act 2016 will be published in due course.
In response to the sharp increase in unaccompanied asylum seeking children (UASC) 
arriving in the UK, particularly in Kent, the Government has worked closely with that 
local authority and with others since last summer to deliver a more equitable distribution 
of UASC across the country, whilst ensuring that the welfare of vulnerable children 
continues to be safeguarded.
As a result, on 1 July, the Home O˛ce and the Department for Education launched a new 
voluntary transfer arrangement between local authorities for the care of unaccompanied 
children who arrive in the UK and claim asylum. ˜is National Transfer Scheme seeks 
to encourage all local authorities to volunteer to support UASC so there is a more even 
distribution of caring responsibilities across the country. It is based on a regional model 
and no region is expected to look aˆer more UASC and unaccompanied refugee children 
than 0.07% of the total child population in their area.
˜ese new arrangements were created aˆer consultation with the Local Government 
Association, the Association of Directors of Children™s Services and local authorities. In 
support of the transfer arrangements the Government also signi˝cantly increased the 
amount of funding that it provides to local authorities caring for UASC. For UASC aged 
under 16 the funding increased by 20% and for UASC aged 16 and 17 funding increased 
by 28%. Each UASC aged under 16 therefore attracts £41,610 per annum and each UASC 
aged 16 or 17 attracts £33,215 per annum. We also increased the funding provided to local 
authorities for those former UASC who then go on to attract leaving care support by 33%.
˜e scheme is underpinned by powers in the Immigration Act 2016, which include a 
provision for the Secretary of State to impose a mandatory scheme for transferring UASC. 
However, we very much hope that the scheme remains a voluntary and a collaborative 
e˚ort across central and local government.
 23 Migration Crisis: Government Response to the Committee™s Seventh Report
 Missing child migrants
Europol estimates that there are 85,000 unaccompanied minors amongst the migrant 
population in the EU. We were astonished to hear reports that large numbers of these 
children go missing from reception centres shortly aˆer arrival and that they then 
face abuse, sexual assault and discrimination. At least 10,000 minors are estimated 
to have gone missing since arriving in Europe. EU countries must do more to protect 
these highly vulnerable young people. ˚e Government has announced a £10 million 
Refugee Children Fund for vulnerable children in the EU. ˚is should be used, and if 
necessary augmented, to ensure that e˛ective support and protection are provided, 
and that this extremely serious problem is properly addressed.
 (Paragraph 140)
˜e UK has provided £70 million to the Mediterranean Migration Crisis response and 
pledged more than £2.3 billion in aid for the humanitarian crisis in Syria and the region, 
making us the largest bilateral contributor to the response. Over £60 million was allocated 
to Europe to provide life-saving aid to migrants and refugees including food, water, 
hygiene kits and infant packs, and protection for the most vulnerable, as well as support 
to organisations helping governments build their capacity to manage arrivals in Greece 
and the Balkans.
˜e Refugee Children Fund for Europe (RCFE) is a one year £10 million programme 
which aims to prevent and mitigate protection risks faced by vulnerable separated and 
unaccompanied refugee and migrant children in Europe. It will be implemented by three 
main partners (IRC, Save and UNHCR) and their sub-partners with a particular focus 
in Greece and limited activities in Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia, FRYOM and Serbia. ˜e 
programme will provide immediate, sustainable protection and support (shelter, medical 
and psychosocial support, educational needs assessment and training), and will help 
children to access durable solutions to their predicaments, including alternative shelters 
and placement in foster homes, relocation to another EU country, asylum in Greece, or 
family reuni˝cation. We have no current plans to extend this programme beyond a year; 
however, we will monitor ongoing needs and ensure an exit strategy is in place.
We are entering the next phase of our response to the crisis across the Mediterranean 
region with new humanitarian support to save lives and meet the needs of the most 
vulnerable, both in transit to and arriving in Europe. For example, DFID is committing £4 
million of initial funding for a new Women and Girls Protection Fund, to help safeguard 
women and girls from all forms of tra˛cking, violence and exploitative behaviours along 
their migration routes.
Working through a consortium of partners across the Mediterranean region, this fund 
will provide vulnerable women and girls with alternative safe shelters and appropriate 
protection (including medical care) and legal support (e.g. female translators and legal 
representatives etc.), as well as with carefully targeted cash grants for protection, and to 
reduce the need for risky income generating activities such as informal labour, domestic 
work, or survival sex.
