  
 
 Page 1 
GAO-09-758T 
 Mr. Chairman and Members of the Subcommittee: 
I am pleased to be here today to discuss GAO™s work on U.S. television 
broadcasting to Cuba. The United States has been broadcasting to Cuba 
for more than two decades via Radio Martí and, subsequently, TV Martí to 
ﬁbreak the information blockadeﬂ and promote freedom and democracy in 

Cuba. U.S. television broadcasting to 
Cuba is performed by the Office of Cuba Broadcasting (OCB), which is a U.S. government entity, overseen by 

the Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG), and based in Miami.1 OCB operates TV Martí, which broadcasts news, commentary, and 
entertainment programming to Cuba. From the inception of these 
broadcasting efforts, various questions have been raised regarding their 

purpose, quality, and effectiveness. In light of the more than $500 million 
that has been spent over the years on broadcasting to Cuba and OCB™s 
almost $35 million annual budget, we have reviewed a variety of issues 

related to the effectiveness of OCB™s television broadcasts. 
Since the inception of TV Martí in 1990, GAO has reported on longstanding 
weaknesses in TV Martí™s operations.2 My remarks today will be based on 
two recent GAO reports, issued in July 2008 and January 2009.
3 Based on your interest, my remarks today will focus mainly on key observations 
regarding TV Martí. These observations include the following: 
1. OCB™s approach for broadcasting and what is known about the size of 
TV Martí™s audience in Cuba. 
2. How BBG and OCB ensure TV Martí™s compliance with journalistic 
principles.                                                                                                                                    
 1The BBG also oversees the oper
ations of the International Broadcasting Bureau (IBB), 
which provides broadcasting services to OCB. 
2GAO, 
Broadcasts to Cuba: TV Martí Surveys are Flawed
, GAO/NSIAD-90-252
 (Washington, D.C.: Aug. 9, 1990); GAO, 
TV Martí: Costs and Compliance with Broadcast 
Standards and International Agreements
, GAO/NSIAD-92-199
 (Washington, D.C.: May 6, 
1992); GAO, U.S. Information Agency: Issues Related to Reinvention Planning in the 
Office of Cuba Broadcasting
, GAO/NSIAD-96-110
 (Washington, D.C.: May 13, 1996). 
3GAO, 
Broadcasting to Cuba: Weaknesses in 
Contracting Practices Reduced Visibility 
into Selected Award Decisions
, GAO-08-764 (Washington, D.C.: Ju
ly 11, 2008) and GAO, 
Broadcasting to Cuba: Actions Are Needed to Improve Strategy and Operations, 
GAO-09-127 (Washington, D.C.: January 22, 2009). Both of these reports were conducted in 
accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. 
   
 
 3. The steps taken to ensure that U.S. television broadcasting to Cuba 
adheres to domestic and international broadcasting laws, agreements, 
and standards. 
4. The steps that BBG and OCB have taken to address management and 
oversight challenges. 
5. BBG™s International Broadcasting 
Bureau™s (IBB) contract award 
process for television broadcasting to Cuba. 
In brief, Mr. Chairman, we found certain actions are needed to improve the 
strategy and operations of U.S. television broadcasting efforts to Cuba. To 
assist decisionmakers in formulating the U.S. broadcasting strategy and 
making funding decisions, we recommended that BBG assemble data to 
help decisionmakers assess the effectiveness and return on investment of 
OCB™s various transmission methods. We also made recommendations in 
other areas, such as operations and contracting practices, which BBG said 
it will implement.  Broadcasting Approach 
and Audience Size 
OCB broadcasts TV Martí to Cuba through multiple transmission methods, 
but the best available research indicates that its audience is small. To 

overcome the Cuban government™s efforts to jam its signals, OCB 
broadcasts TV Martí through an ﬁover-the-airﬂ broadcast via an airplane 
(or AeroMartí), two satellites (DirecTV and Hispasat), and the Internet. 
Figure 1 showsŠin the absence of Cuban jammingŠthe projected 
coverage, cost, and broadcast schedule of selected TV Martí transmissions. 
Page 2 
GAO-09-758T 
   
 
 Figure 1: Coverage, Cost, and Broadcast Sche
dule of Selected TV Martí Transmissions 
FLTransmission 
coverage
TV Martí
via TV Azteca on 
DirecTV satelliteHavana
TV Martí Œ AeroMartí
Covera
geCo
stSchedule
† Approximately 
$500,000 per year
† Approximately 
$5 million per year for air 

services and 

fuel† 3½ hours per day, 
5 days a week 
(2 hours per day on 

weekends)
† 4½ hours per day, 
6 days a week
TV Martí Œ DirecTV 
satelliteCubaCubaHavana
FLTransmission
coverage in 
absence ofjammingTV Martí
viaAeroMartí
Sources: GAO analysis of Office of Cuba Broadcasting and International Broadcasting Bureau data; Nova Development (clip art); 
Map Art and Map Info (maps); and Cuba National Statistical Office (population density data).
0 to 170171 to 230231 to 340341 to 6,580Cuba map:population density: 

people per square mile During the past 3 years, OCB has allocated significantly more of its 
resources for additional TV Martí transm
issions, particularly the airplane, 
than Radio Martí transmissions. Due to the U.S. government™s lack of 
access to Cuba, OCB has difficulty obtaining nationally representative data 
on its audience size. In addition, decisionmakers have limited information 
to help assess the relative success or return on investment from each of 

OCB™s various transmission methods. For example, it is impossible to 
determine from IBB™s telephone surveys whether TV Martí™s audience is due to AeroMartí, which costs about $5.0 million annually, or the DirecTV 

transmission, which costs about $0.5 million annually. While there are no 
nationally representative data on the size of OCB™s audience, the best 
Page 3 
GAO-09-758T 
   
 
 available audience researchŠIBB telephone surveysŠindicates that TV 
Martí™s audience size is small.
4 Specifically, less than 1 percent of 
respondents to IBB telephone surveys since 2003 reported that they had 
watched TV Martí during the past week.
5 Notably, results from the 2006 
and 2008 telephone surveys show no increase in reported TV Martí 

viewership following the launch of AeroMartí and DirecTV broadcasting in 

2006. OCB broadcasts face jamming by
 the Cuban government. However, 
despite some efforts by IBB and OCB,
 they still lack reliable data on the number, type, and effectiveness of the signal jammers. As a result, it is 

unclear how much of the television signals can be heard and seen in Cuba. 
Also, while OCB officials emphasized the changing media environment in 
Cuba and an increase in domestic and international broadcast competition 
as challenges for OCB in attracting and maintaining an audience, OCB 
could do more to address the challenges posed by its competitors in the 
Cuban media environment. Furthermore, although BBG coordinates with other agencies regarding U.S. policy towa
rd Cuba, coordination is minimal 
on issues such as audience research. Finally, even though the United 
States has been broadcasting to Cuba for more than two decades, OCB 
lacks a formal strategic plan approved by BBG to guide decision-making 
on its funding and operations, such as its recent proposal to change TV 

Martí™s newscasts™ schedule from tw
o, half hour evening newscasts to five 
minute news updates every half hour in fiscal year 2010. 
                                                                                                                                     
 4Other information suggests that TV Martí™s 
audience may be larger. For example, 21 
percent of recent Cuban émigrés respondi
ng to a nonrandom, 2007 
OCB survey reported watching TV Martí within the last 6 months be
fore leaving Cuba. However, these results 
likely do not represent the actual size of TV Martí™s audience.  
5IBB™s telephone surveys are IBB™s only random 
data collection effort
 in Cuba, but these 
data might not be representative of Cubans™ 
media habits for two main reasons: (1) Only 
adults in homes with publishe
d telephone numbers are surveyed, and, according to BBG 
documents, approximately 17 percent of Cuban adults live in households with published 
telephone numbers; and (2) BBG and OCB officials noted that, because individuals in Cuba 

are discouraged or prohibited by their government from watching U.S. international 
broadcasts, they might be fearful of respo
nding to media surveys 
and disclosing their 
media habits, and thus actual audience size migh
t be larger than survey results. However, 
in each of the telephone surveys conducted 
since 2005, interviewers indicated that 6 
percent or less of respondents expressed or demonstrated signs of fear when answering 
questions over the telephone.  
Page 4 
GAO-09-758T 
   
 
 IBB™s annual reviews have identified problems with TV Martí broadcasts™ 
adherence to certain journalistic standards, but IBB™s review process has 
some weaknesses. IBB has an annual program review process that serves 

as the main tool for assessing TV Martí broadcasts™ compliance with 
journalistic standards, such as accuracy, balance, and objectivity. Since 
2003, IBB reviews have made recommendations to improve TV Martí™s 

adherence to certain journalistic standards, particularly related to 
ensuring balance and objectivity. However, OCB staff have received little 
training regarding compliance with journalistic standards and, in general, 

OCB has not ensured full implementation of IBB™s recommendations. IBB 
has recently developed a process for improving its oversight of the 
implementation of such recommendations. While we found that IBB™s 
process provides useful feedback
 regarding broadcast content and production quality, we identified several
 aspects of the process that could 
be improved. For example, IBB™s qualitative reviews lacked consistency in 

their methodology and reporting and often do not clearly state whether the 
broadcasts are in full compliance with journalistic standards. In addition, 
while the program analysts who pe
rform the reviews receive training 
regarding language, regional expertise, and technical production, they 
have received limited training for skillsŠsuch as program evaluationŠthat would assist them in conducting program reviews. 
Compliance with Journalistic Standards  Adherence to Domestic and International 
Broadcasting Laws, 

Agreements, and 
Standards While IBB and OCB have taken a variety of steps to help ensure that U.S. 
television broadcasting to Cuba adheres to domestic and international 
broadcasting laws, agreements, and standards, several concerns remain. 
The Smith-Mundt Act6 generally prohibits the domestic dissemination of 
public diplomacy information intended for foreign audiences, although 
legislation authorizing TV Martí allows some domestic dissemination in 
limited circumstances. IBB and OCB have taken a variety of steps to 

minimize the domestic dissemination of TV Martí programming. For 
example, according to IBB officials, in deciding which television station to 
contract with to place TV Martí programming on DirecTV, they evaluated 

the geographic coverage of each station™s broadcasting, with the intent of 
minimizing domestic dissemination. However, TV Martí broadcasts reach 
U.S. audiences in several ways. For example, residents of Miami can watch 
TV Martí programming on local cable or DirecTV, and anyone can access 
streaming video from OCB™s Web site. In addition, some commercials 
                                                                                                                                   
 622 U.S.C. § 1461. Originally enacted as Sectio
n 501 of the U.S. Information and Educational 
Exchange Act of 1948, this law is comm
only known as the Smith-Mundt Act.  
Page 5 
GAO-09-758T 
   
 
 shown by a Miami television station contracted to air TV Martí 
programming had contained paid political advertisements during the 
programming, which IBB typically prohibits. BBG officials told us the 

standard contract language prohibiting the airing of political 
advertisements was inadvertently left out of the contract with the Miami 
television station. According to these officials, they have taken steps to 

address this problem. However, no similar standard contract language 
prohibiting other potentially inappropriate commercials existed, at that 
time. Finally, in response to complaints by the Cuban government, the 

international body that serves as a forum for such disputesŠthe 
International Telecommunication UnionŠfound that U.S. television 
broadcasts cause harmful interference with Cuban broadcasts. State 
officials indicated that no action had been taken in response to the 
International Telecommunication Union™s determinations that U.S. 
television broadcasts caused harmful interference. 
 Management and 
Oversight Challenges Despite some efforts by BBG and OCB, some oversight and management 
problems persist. Several entitiesŠincluding BBG, IBB, and the State 
Office of Inspector GeneralŠprovide oversight of OCB operations. For 
example, the State Office of Inspector General has performed three 

inspections and audits related to OCB since 1999, each of which resulted 
in multiple recommendations. These various oversight efforts have 
identified three main categories of problems in recent years: poor 

communication by OCB management, low employee morale, and 
allegations of fraud and abuse.
7 For example, the State Office of Inspector 
General has reported on OCB employee desire to improve communication, 
and a recent Office of Personnel Managem
ent survey found that a majority 
of OCB employees who responded expressed concern about the 
information they receive from management on what is going on in the 

organization. OCB employees have speci
fically expressed frustration with 
the lack of any formal system for disseminating information from 

management to staff or for staff to provide input to management. In 

responding to recent audit reports, BBG and OCB have taken steps to 
address nearly all of the auditors™ recommendations. 
                                                                                                                                   
 7One allegation of fraud and abuse, which BBG 
brought to the attention of the State Office 
of Inspector General, has been substantiated 
in recent years. Investigators from our Office 
of Forensic Audits and Speci
al Investigation found some i
ndications of mismanagement, 
but much of the evidence was anecdotal or h
earsay and did not provide a sufficient basis 
upon which to continue the investigation.  
Page 6 
GAO-09-758T 
   
 
 Contracting Practices 
In July 2008, we reported on our evaluation of the processes that IBB used 
to award a contract to a Miami-based
 broadcasting television station to 
broadcast TV Martí. In December 2006, IBB leased airtime on TV Azteca, a 

commercial television station in Miami that is carried on the DirecTV 
satellite. However, IBB™s approach for awarding the TV Azteca contract 
did not reflect sound business practices in certain key aspects. 
Government contracting laws and regu
lations provide agencies flexibility 
to use noncompetitive procedures, if 
adequately justified, to meet their 
needs. In certain respects, however, IBB did not document in its contract 

files key information or assumptions underlying its decisions to not seek 
competitive offers, limit the number of
 potential providers it considered, 
or the basis used to negotiate the final prices for the services provided. In 
addition, IBB did not actively involve its contracting office until just prior 
to contract award. Furthermore, wh
ile justifying the December 2006 award 
of the contract on the basis of urgent and compelling need and the 
determination that only one source would meet its minimum needs, IBB 
chose to exercise multiple options on the contract to extend the period of 
performance into 2008 and took limited
 steps to determine how it might compete future broadcasting requirements. Collectively, these weaknesses 
underscored the need for IBB and OCB to improve their practices to 
enhance competition, improve transparency, and ensure accountability. 
 Prior Recommendations In our July 2008 and January 2009 reports, we made several 
recommendations to BBG to improve OCB™s strategy and operations. We 
recommended that BBG conduct an analysis of the relative return on 
investment from OCB™s various transmission methods and coordinate with 
other agencies, such as the U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Agency 
for International Development, to obtain additional information regarding 
the obstacles and effectiveness of TV Martí. We also recommended that 

BBG direct IBB to enhance guidance and training for program analysts 
conducting program reviews and take steps to ensure that political or 
other inappropriate advertisements 
do not air during OCB programming. 
In addition, we recommended that BBG direct OCB to provide staff with 
training regarding journalistic standards and establish mechanisms to improve communication with employees. With regards to contracting, we 
recommended that the BBG reinforce existing policy and guidance to plan 
for and employ appropriate competit
ive approaches, adequately document 
key decisions, and ensure the timely involvement of stakeholders. 
Following the issuance of our reports, BBG indicated that it would take 
steps to address our recommendations. For example, to address our 

recommendation that OCB conduct an analysis of the relative success and 
Page 7 
GAO-09-758T 
   
 
 return on investment of OCB™s individual transmission methods, BBG 
indicated that it would conduct this analysis using surveys that include 
questions on the reception of OCB™s various transmission methods. In 

response to our recommendations, BBG also indicated that it aimed to 
provide an enhanced, comprehensive tr
aining for its program analysts who 
review OCB™s compliance with journalistic standards, as well as training to 
OCB staff regarding journalistic standards. With regards to contracting, 
IBB issued a memorandum reminding all offices of critical acquisition 
requirements, including the need to ensure that acquisition files are 

thoroughly documented with all information and assumptions supporting 
key decision factors. 
  Mr. Chairman, this concludes my prep
ared statement. I will be happy to answer any questions you or the 
other Subcommittee members may have. 
 For more information regarding this testimony, please contact me at  
(202) 512-4128 or 
fordj@gao.gov
. Jason Bair (Assistant Director), Emily Gupta, Leigh Ann Nally, and Katherine 
Trimble made key contributions to 
this testimony. Technical assistance was provided by Joseph Carney, 

Martin De Alteriis, John Hutton, Ernie Jackson, Armetha Liles, and 
Elizabeth Singer. GAO Contact and Staff Acknowledgments  (320687) Page 8 
GAO-09-758T 
   
   This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the 
United States. The p
ublished prod
uct may be reprod
uced and distributed in it
s entirety without further permission from GAO. However, 
because this work may cont
ain 
copyrighted im
ages or other m
aterial, permission from the copyright holder m
ay be necessa
ry if you wish to reprod
uce this material separately.    
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
 
 
 
   GAO™s Mission 
The Government Accountability Office, the audit, evaluation, and 
investigative arm of Congress, exists to support Congress in meeting its constitutional responsibilities and to help improve the performance and 
accountability of the federal government for the American people. GAO 
examines the use of public funds; eval
uates federal programs and policies; 
and provides analyses, recommendations, and other assistance to help 

Congress make informed oversight, policy, and funding decisions. GAO™s 
commitment to good government is reflected in its core values of 
accountability, integrity, and reliability. 
The fastest and easiest way to obtain copies of GAO documents at no cost 

is through GAO™s Web site (www.gao.gov). Each weekday afternoon, GAO 
posts on its Web site newly released reports, testimony, and 
correspondence. To have GAO e-mail you a list of newly posted products, 
go to www.gao.gov
 and select ﬁE-mail Updates.ﬂ 
Obtaining Copies of 
GAO Reports and 
Testimony 
Order by Phone The price of each GAO publication reflects GAO™s actual cost of 
production and distribution and depends on the number of pages in the 
publication and whether the publication is printed in color or black and 
white. Pricing and ordering information is posted on GAO™s Web site, 
http://www.gao.gov/ordering.htm
.  Place orders by calling (202) 512-6000, toll free (866) 801-7077, or  
TDD (202) 512-2537. 
Orders may be paid for using American Express, Discover Card, 
MasterCard, Visa, check, or money order. Call for additional information. 
Contact: Web site: www.gao.gov/fraudnet/fraudnet.htm
 E-mail: fraudnet@gao.gov Automated answering system: (
800) 424-5454 or (202) 512-7470 
Ralph Dawn, Managing Director, 
dawnr@gao.gov
, (202) 512-4400 
U.S. Government Accountability Office, 441 G Street NW, Room 7125 
Washington, DC 20548 
To Report Fraud, 
Waste, and Abuse in 
Federal Programs Congressional Relations Chuck Young, Managing Director, 
youngc1@gao.gov
, (202) 512-4800 
U.S. Government Accountability Office, 441 G Street NW, Room 7149  
Washington, DC 20548 
Public Affairs  Please Print on Recycled Paper
 