Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                 Breast Cancer            Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                            Breast Cancer StatisticsEspañol (Spanish)     Minus     Related Pages     Breast cancer is the second most common cancer among women in the United States (some kinds of skin cancer are the most common).
 Black women and white women get breast cancer at about the same rate, but black women die from breast cancer at a higher rate than white women.
 U.S. Cancer Statistics Data Visualizations Tool The Data Visualizations tool makes it easy for anyone to explore and use the latest official federal government cancer data from United States Cancer Statistics.
 It includes the latest cancer data covering 100% of the U.S. population.
 Cancer Rates by U.S. StateSee rates or numbers of new breast cancers or breast cancer deaths for the entire United States and individual states.
 Also, see the top 10 cancers.DemographicsSee rates or numbers of new breast cancers or breast cancer deaths by race/ethnicity and age group.TrendsSee how the rates of new breast cancers or breast cancer deaths changed over time for the entire United States and individual states.
 Page last reviewed: June 8, 2020 Content source: 	Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention        homeBreast Cancer  Basic Informationplus icon  What Is Breast Cancer?
 What Are the Symptoms?
 What Are the Risk Factors?
 What Can I Do to Reduce My Risk?
 What Is Breast Cancer Screening?
 What Is a Mammogram?
 What Does It Mean to Have Dense Breasts?
 How Is Breast Cancer Diagnosed?
 How Is Breast Cancer Treated?
 Triple-Negative Breast Cancer Breast Cancer in Young Womenplus icon  Bring Your Brave Campaign Advisory Committee on Breast Cancer in Young Womenplus icon  Members Ex-Officio Members Meetings Roster Meeting Registration     Breast Cancer in Men Statistics What CDC Is Doing Resources to Shareplus icon  Videos Podcasts Shareable Graphics Print Materials      Stay Informed                     HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
