This is to counter that.
 ","id":"5172421002","promoBrief":"Coronavirus forced the Supreme Court of the United States to hear, and share, oral arguments remotely in real time, but will the change last?
 ","shortHeadline":"Will \"Supreme Court Live\" outlast coronavirus?
 ","title":"Supreme Court shares oral arguments live: Is this the new norm?
 That language circulated in the past week on several Facebook pages and among conservative activists.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi does support remote voting for Congress.
 The issue has gained prominence as bipartisan discussions about the House returning to Washington heat up.Congress and COVID-19Since the coronavirus began forcing businesses and governments to enact social distancing orders in mid-March, members of Congress have pushed leadership to consider remote voting options.On March 23, nearly 70 House Democrats sent a letter to Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass., chairman of the House Rules Committee, urging him to enact rules that would allow for remote voting.
 The House Rules Committee issued a report that same day outlining obstacles to remote voting, along with alternative approaches and potential solutions.“While remote voting deserves similarly thoughtful study, to create a secure, reliable, and user-friendly system while in the midst of a crisis is not realistic,” the report reads.The Constitution requires that a "quorum," or a majority of members, be present on the floor "to do Business” for most actions in Congress, making the legality of remote voting somewhat vague.
 "For the House or Senate to authorize remote voting in a way that satisfies the quorum requirement, it would appear that either a majority of Members must be available on the floor to be counted towards a quorum in the traditional way, or the chamber must establish that those absent, but voting or participating remotely may nonetheless be counted towards a quorum," the Congressional Research Service found in a report April 14.During negotiations over the $2.2 trillion Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act, Pelosi said the House would not vote on the bill remotely but didn’t rule out the possibility of remote voting altogether.“There are serious constitutional, technological and security concerns about it,” Pelosi said during an interview with MSNBC on March 24.
 “They can be addressed, but for right now, we’re just working very hard to get unanimous consent, so we can get this bill done, and then consider what the options are later.”On April 7, a bipartisan group of House members published an open letter to Pelosi and Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy suggesting several remote voting proposals.“Let us hope that the blessings of technology will give us more options sooner to review,” Pelosi said during a news conference April 9.
 “We aren't there yet.”Other House leaders expressed doubt about the long-term feasibility of remote voting but acknowledged the pandemic presented extraordinary circumstances and a consequent need to reevaluate old rules.“I don’t think proxy voting is healthy,” McCarthy said March 27.
 “It puts too much power in one set of hands.”"Neither the speaker, nor I, nor Sen. McConnell or Congressman McCarthy believes we ought to have any kind of regular practice of members voting remotely," Rep. Steny Hoyer, D-Md., said April 15, referring to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.
 "But in an emergency situation where it’s impossible to do it that way, we ought to have an alternative.
 "Exploring remote voting optionsPelosi directed McGovern to explore the possibilities for voting remotely.
 The speaker continued to express doubt about the possibility of voting remotely; however, she did not rule it out.“Everybody’s working so hard on all of these initiatives, including on how we can come together, whether it’s by proxy voting or remote voting or whatever it is,” Pelosi said during a news teleconference April 15.
 “When we are ready, we will do it.”That same day, McGovern released his recommendation for a temporary rule change allowing House members to vote “by proxy,” whereby one member would designate another to vote in his or her place.
 "I recommend a path forward to my colleagues that will allow Congress to do its job in an orderly and safe manner during this pandemic: temporary, low-tech remote voting," McGovern said in a statement April 16.
 "Under this plan, any member unable to travel to Washington due to the pandemic could provide specific instructions for each vote to a fellow member who has been authorized to cast those votes on their behalf.
 "During the same period, GOP lawmakers said  lawmakers should return to Washington and resume legislating in person.“I don’t deny there are risks as members of Congress go in there.
 But that’s what doing your duty is: There are risks, but you get the job done anyway,” Rep. Brian Mast, R-Fl told Politico on April 17.A formal plan for proxy votingOn April 22, McGovern formally proposed his resolution that outlined how Congress might implement remote voting by proxy for pandemic response efforts and virtual committee proceedings.
 The resolution would direct the Committee on House Administration to study the possibility of remote floor voting.The resolution would require a member of Congress to “submit to the Clerk a signed letter (including in electronic form) specifying by name the Member who is designated for such purposes.” The designated member would be able to vote on behalf of a colleague only on the specific measure outlined in the letter.House Republicans opposed the proposal, leading Pelosi and McCarthy to create a bipartisan group to review proposals for the House.
 On April 26, Pelosi told CNN’s Jake Tapper she was “all for doing the remote voting by proxy.” Bipartisan discussions were still taking place, and Republicans opposed the proxy voting rules change.On April 27, House Democrats said they would proceed with a vote on by-proxy voting over Republican objections, according to a report from Politico.A day later, House Democrats decided to postpone reconvening Congress.
 Pelosi cited conversations with the House attending physician's office and the sergeant at arms about the possible exposure of lawmakers, staff and other Capitol attendees.On May 4, McCarthy, alongside Reps. Tom Cole, R-Okla.,  and  Rodney Davis, R-Ill., proposed a set of rule changes that would resume in-person operations at the Capitol under social distancing measures and other precautions.“We fully appreciate the extraordinary nature of the challenge before us,” the trio wrote on Medium.
 “However, when it comes to fundamentally altering how the House operates – in this case, potentially abandoning the Capitol for the remainder of the 116th Congress under the introduced Democratic proposal – every avenue should first be explored that preserves enduring institutional rules while prioritizing member health.”McGovern said the move was “very disappointing” in a tweet Monday.
 “The status quo isn’t going to cut it.”Voting by mail amid COVID-19Democrats, including Pelosi, have supported funding for vote-by-mail efforts to help states and localities prepare during the COVID-19 pandemic.
 In a previous version of the coronavirus relief package, House Democrats proposed funding for election security and voting by mail, but the proposal was removed in the Senate.On April 27, Pelosi told MSNBC that House Democrats would support voting by mail in the next round of relief legislation.
 “We think it is a health issue at this point,” she said.Our ruling: Partly falseWe rate this claim PARTLY FALSE because parts are not supported by our research.
 House Speaker Nancy Pelosi never ruled out the possibility of remote voting and supports by-proxy voting after recommendations from the House Rules Committee.
 It is false that she blocked the use of remote voting in Congress.It is true that the speaker supports vote-by-mail efforts for elections across the country.
 She said vote-by-mail efforts will be a Democratic priority in the next round of negotiations on coronavirus relief funding.Our fact-check sources:House Democrats' letter to Rules CommitteeHouse Rules Committee March 23 report on remote votingArticle 1, Section 5, U.S. ConstitutionCongressional Research Service, Constitutional Considerations of Remote Voting in CongressThe Hill, Pelosi: House 'not prepared' to vote remotely on coronavirus relief billCoronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security ActProblem Solvers Caucus Open Letter to LeadershipSpeaker Pelosi April 9 teleconferenceRoll Call, House inches toward low-tech remote voting with proxy vote proposalWall Street Journal, Small-Business Aid Program Set to Run Out of MoneyMSNBC April 14 Interview with Nancy PelosiC-SPAN, Pelosi April 16 teleconference Rep. McGovern April 16 news releasePolitico, GOP lawmakers eye return to Capitol in protest of pandemic shutdownRep.
 McGovern April 22 news releaseC-SPAN, Kevin McCarthy news conference April 22CNN April 26 Interview with Nancy PelosiKevin McCarthy on Medium: A Plan for the People’s HouseRep.
 McGovern May 4 tweetWashington Post, Democrats throw down the gauntlet on vote by mailPresident Trump April 8 tweetC-SPAN Nancy Pelosi April 9 weekly briefingMSNBC April 27 Interview with Nancy PelosiThank you for supporting our journalism.
