TLP:
WHITE
2 
of 
13 TLP:WHITE
Description
 The U.S. Government 
confirm
s 
that two different 
RIS
 actors participated in the intrusion into a 
U.S. political party. The first actor
 group, known as 
Advanced Persistent Threat (
APT
) 29, entered 
into the party™s systems in summer 
2015, while the second, known as APT28, entered in 
spring 2016.  
Figure 
1: The tactics and techniques used by APT29 and APT 28 to conduct cyber intrusions against target systems
 Both groups have historically targeted government organizations, think tanks, universities, and 

corporations around the world. APT29 has been observed crafting targeted spearphishing 
campaigns leveraging web links to a malicious dropper; once executed, the code delivers Remote 
Access Tools (RATs) an
d evades detection using a range of techniques. APT28 is known for 
leveraging domains that closely mimic those of targeted organizations and tricking potential 

victims into entering legitimate credentials. APT28 actors relied heavily on shortened URLs in 
their spearphishing email campaigns. Once APT28 and APT29 have access to victims, both 
groups exfiltrate and analyze information to gain intelligence value. These groups use this 

information to craft highly targeted spearphishing campaigns. These actors set up operational 

infrastructure to obfuscate their source infrastructure, host domains and malware for targeting 
organizations, establish command and control nodes, and harvest credentials and other valuable 
information from their targets.
 In summer 2015, an APT29 spearphishing campaign directed emails containing a malicious link 
to over 1,000 recipients, including multiple U.S. Government victims. APT29 used legitimate 
 TLP:W
HITE
3 
of 
13 TLP:WHITE
domains, to include domains associated with U.S. organizations and educational institutio
ns, to 
host malware and send spearphishing emails. In the course of that campaign, APT29 successfully 

compromised a U.S. political party. At least one targeted individual activated links to malware 
hosted on operational infrastructure of opened attachments containing malware. APT29 
delivered malware to the political party™s systems, established persistence, escalated privileges, 

enumerated active directory accounts, and exfiltrated email from several accounts through 

encrypted connections back through opera
tional infrastructure.
  
In spring 2016, APT28 compromised the same political party, again via targeted spearphishing. 

This time, the spearphishing email tricked recipients into changing their passwords through a 

fake webmail domain hosted on APT28 operatio
nal infrastructure. Using the harvested 
credentials, APT28 was able to gain access and steal content, 
likely leading to the exfiltration of 
information
 from multiple senior party members. The U.S. Government assesses that information 
was
 leaked to the pres
s and publicly disclosed. 
Figure 
2: APT28's Use of Spearphis
hing and Stolen Credentials
 Actors
 likely associated with RIS
 are continuing to engage in spearphishing campaigns, 
including one launched as recently as November 2016, just days after the U.S. election. 
 TLP:W
HITE
4 
of 
13 TLP:WHITE
Reported Russian Military and Civilian Intelligence Services (RIS)
 Alternate Names
 APT28
 APT29
 Agent.btz
 BlackEnergy V3
 BlackEnergy2 APT
 CakeDuke
 Carberp
 CHOPSTICK
 CloudDuke
 CORESHELL 
CosmicDuke 
COZYBEAR
 COZYCAR
 COZYDUKE
 CrouchingYeti
 DIONIS
 Dragonfly
 Energetic Bear
 EVILTOSS
 Fancy Bear
 GeminiDuke
 GREY CLOUD
 HammerDuke
 HAMMERTOSS
 Havex
 MiniDionis
 MiniDuke
 OLDBAIT 
OnionDuke
 Operation Pawn Storm
 PinchDuke
 Powershell backdoor
 Quedagh
 Sandworm
 SEADADDY
 Seaduke
 SEDKIT
 SEDNIT
 Skipper
 Sofacy 
SOURFACE
 SYNful Knock
 Tiny Baron
 Tsar Team
 twain_64.dll (64
-bit X
-Agent implant)
 VmUpgradeHelper.exe (X
-Tunnel implant)
 Waterbug
 X-Agent
    TLP:WHITE
  
5 
of 
13  TLP:WHITE
  Technical Details
 Indicators of 
Compromise 
(IOC
s) 
IOCs 
associated with RIS cyber actors 
are provided within the accompanying .csv and .stix files 
of JAR
-16-20296. 
Yara Signature
 rule PAS_TOOL_PHP_WEB_KIT  
{  
meta: 
 
description = "PAS TOOL PHP WEB KIT FOUND" 
 strings: 
 $php = "<?php"  

$base64decode = /
\='base'
\.\(\d+\*\d+\)\
.'_de'
\.'code'/ 
 $strreplace = "(str_replace(" 
 $md5 = ".substr(md5(strrev("  

$gzinflate = "gzinflate" 
 $cookie = "_COOKIE"  

$isset = "isset" 
 condition:  

(filesize > 20KB and filesize < 22KB) and  

#cookie == 2 and  

#isset == 3 and 
 all of them 
 
}  Actions to Take Using Indicators
 DHS recommends that network administrators review the IP addresses, file hashes, and 
Yara 
signature provided and add the IPs to their watchlist to 
determine whether 
malicious
 activity has 
been observed within their organizations. The review of network perimeter netflow or firewall 
logs will assist in determining 
whether 
your network
 has experienced suspicious activity.  
 When reviewing network perimeter logs for the IP addresses, organizations may find numerous 
instances of these IPs attempting to connect to their systems. Upon revie
wing the traffic from 
these IPs,
 some traffic may 
correspond to malicious activity, and some may correspond to 
legitimate activity. Some traffic that may appear legitimate is actually malicious, such as 
vulnerability scanning or browsing of legitimate public facing services 
(e.g., 
HTTP, HTTPS, 

FTP
). Connections from these IPs may be performing vulnerability scans attempting to identify 
websites that are vulnerable to cross
-site scripting (XSS) or Structured Query Language (SQL) 
injection attacks. If 
scanning identified 
vulnerable sites, attempts to exploit the vulnerabilities 

may be experienced.
    TLP:WHITE
  
6 
of 
13  TLP:WHITE
  Network administrators are encouraged to check their public-
facing websites for the malicious 
file hashes.
 System owners are also advised to run the Yara 
signature
 on any system that is 
suspected to have been targete
d by RIS actors.  
Threats from IOCs
 Malicious actors may use a variety of methods to interfere with information systems. Some 
methods of attack are listed below. Guidance provided is applicable to many other computer 
networks. 
 Injection Flaws
 are broad web
 application attack techniques that attempt to send 
commands to a browser, database, or other system, allowing a regular user to control 

behavior. The most common example is SQL injection, which subverts the relationship 

between a webpage and its supporting database, typically to obtain information contained 
inside the database. Another form is command injection, where an untrusted user is able 
to send commands to operating systems supporting a web application or database. See the 

United States Computer Eme
rgency Readiness Team (US
-CERT) Publication on 
SQL 
Injection
 for more information. 
 Cross
-site scripting (XSS)
 vulnerabilities
 allow threat actors to insert and execute 
unauthorized code in web applications. Successful XSS attacks on websites can provide 

the attacker unauthorized access. For prevention and mitigation strategies against XSS, 

see US
-CERT™s Alert on 
Compromised Web Servers and Web Shells
.  Server vulnerabilities
 may be exploited to allow unauthorized access to sensitive 
information. An attack against a poorly configured server may allow an adversary access 

to critical information including any websites or databases hosted on the server. See US-
CERT™s Tip on 
Website Security
 for additional information. 
Recommended Mitigations
 Commit to 
Cybersecurity 
Best 
Practices 
A commitment to good cybersecurity and best practices is critical to protecting networks and 
systems. Here are some questions you may want to ask your organization to help prevent and 

mitigate against attacks.
 1. Backups
: Do we backup all critical information? Are the backups stored offline? Have 
we tested our ability to revert to backups during an incident? 
2. Risk Analysis
: Have we conducted a cybersecurity risk analysis of the organization?
 3. Staff Training
: Have we trained
 staff on cybersecurity best practices?
 4. Vulnerability Scanning & Patching
: Have we implemented regular scans of our 
network and systems and appropriate patching of known system vulnerabilities? 
5. Application Whitelisting
: Do we allow only approved programs to run on our networks? 
6. Incident Response
: Do we have an incident response plan and have we practiced it?
    TLP:WHITE
  
7 
of 
13  TLP:WHITE
  7. Business Continuity
: Are we able to sustain business operations without access to 
certain systems? For how long? Have we tested this?
 8. Penetration Testi
ng: Have we attempted to hack into our own systems to test the 
security of our systems and our ability to defend against attacks? 
Top Seven Mitigation Strategies
 DHS encourages network administrators to implement the recommendations below, which can 
prevent as many as 85 percent of targeted cybe
r-
attacks. These strategies are common sense to 
many, but DHS continues to see intrusions because organizations fail to use these basic 

measures. 
 1. Patch applications and operating systems Œ
 Vulnerable applications and operating 
systems are the targets of most attacks. Ensuring these are patched with the latest updates 
greatly reduces the number of exploitable entry points available to an attacker. Use best 
practices when updating software an
d patches by only downloading updates from 
authenticated vendor sites. 
2. Application whitelisting 
Œ Whitelisting is one of the best security strategies because it 
allows only specified programs to run while blocking all others, including malicious 

software.
 3. Restrict administrative privileges 
Œ Threat actors are increasingly focused on gaining 

control of legitimate credentials, especially those associated with highly privileged 
accounts. Reduce privileges to only those needed for a user™s duties. Separate 
admi
nistrators into privilege tiers with limited access to other tiers.
 4. Network Segmentation and Segregation into Security Zones
 Œ Segment networks into 
logical enclaves and restrict host
-to-host communications paths. This helps protect 
sensitive information and critical services and limits damage from network perimeter 

breaches.
 5. Input validation
 Œ Input validation is a method of sanitizing untrusted user input 
provided by users of a web application, and may prevent many types of web application 
security flaws,
 such as SQLi, XSS, and command injection. 
6. File Reputation
 Œ Tune Anti-
Virus file reputation systems to the most aggressive setting 
possible; some products can limit execution to only the highest reputation files, stopping 
a wide range of untrustworthy cod
e from gaining control.
 7. Understanding firewalls 
Œ When anyone or anything can access your network at any 
time, your network is more susceptible to being attacked. Firewalls can be configured to 

block data from certain locations (IP whitelisting) or applications while allowing relevant 

and necessary data through. 
   TLP:W
HITE
8 
of 
13 TLP:WHITE
Responding to Unauthorized Access to Networks
 Implement your security incident response and business continuity plan
. It may take time 
for your organization™s IT professionals to isolate and 
remove threats to your systems and restore 

normal operations. Meanwhile, you should take steps to maintain your organization™s essential 

functions according to your business continuity plan. Organizations should maintain and 

regularly test backup plans, disaster recovery plans, and business continuity procedures. 
Contact DHS or law enforcement immediately
. We encourage you to contact DHS NCCIC 
(NCCICCustomerService@hq.dhs.gov
 or 888-282-0870), the FB
I through a local field office 
or 
the FBI™s Cyber Division (
CyWatch@ic.fbi.gov
 or 855-292-3937) to report an intrusion and to 
request incident response resources or technical assistance.
 Detailed Mitigation Strateg
ies
 Protect Against SQL Injection and Other Attacks on Web Services
Routinely evaluate known and published vulnerabilities, perform software updates and 
technology refreshes periodically, and audit external
-facing systems for known Web application 
vulnerabilities. Take steps to harden both Web applications and the servers hosting them to 
reduce the risk of network intrusion via this vector.
1 Use and configure available firewalls to block attacks.
Take steps to further secure Windows systems such as installing and configuring
Microsoft™s Enhanced Mitigation Experience Toolkit (EMET) and Microsoft AppLocker.
Monitor and remove any unauthorized code present in any www directories.
Disable, discontinue, or disallow the use of Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP)

and Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) and response to these protocols as

much as possible.
Remove non-
required HTTP verbs from Web servers as typical Web servers and
applications only require GET, POST, and HEAD.
Where possible, minimize server fingerprinting by configuring Web servers to avoid
responding with banners identifying the server software and version number.
Secure both the operating system and the application.
Update and patch production servers regularly.
Disable potentially harmful SQL
-stored procedure calls.
Sanitize and validate input to ensure that it is properly typed and does not contain
escaped code.
Consider using type-
safe stored procedures and prepared statements.
Perform regular audits of transaction logs for sus
picious activity.
Perform penetration testing against Web services.
Ensure error messages are generic and do not expose too much information.
1 http://msdn.microsoft.com/en
-us/library/ff648653.aspx
. Web site last accessed April 11, 2016
. 
 TLP:
WHITE
9 
of 
13 TLP:WHITE
Phishing and Spear
phishing
 Implement a Sender Policy Framework (SPF) record for your organization™s Domain
Name S
ystem (
DNS) zone file to minimize risks relating to the receipt of spoofed 
messages.
 Educate users to be suspicious of unsolicited phone calls, social media interactions, or

email messages from individuals asking about employees or other internal informati
on. If
an unknown individual claims to be from a legitimate organization, try to verify his or her
identity directly with the company.
Do not provide personal information or information about your organization, including its

structure or networks, unless you are certain of a person™s authority to have the

information.
Do not reveal personal or financial information in social media or email, and do not

respond to solicitations for this information. This includes following links sent in email.
Pay attention to the URL of a website. Malicious websites may look identical to a

legitimate site, but the URL often includes a variation in spelling or a different domain
than the valid website (e.g., .com vs. .net).
If you are unsure whether an email request is 
legitimate, try to verify it by contacting the
company directly. Do not use contact information provided on a website connected to the

request; instead, check previous statements for contact information. Information about
known phishing attacks is also available online from groups such as the Anti-Phishing
Working Group (
http://www.antiphishing.org
).Take advantage of anti
-phishing features offered by your email client and web browser.
Patch all systems for critical vulnerabilities, prioritizing timely patching of software that
proc
esses Internet data, such as web browsers, browser plugins, and document readers.
Permissions, Privileges, and Access Controls
 Reduce privileges to only those needed for a user™s dutie
s.Restrict users™ ability (permissions) to install and run unwanted software applications,

and apply the principle of ﬁLeast Privilegeﬂ to all systems and services. Restricting these
privileges may prevent malware from running or limit its capability to s
pread through the
network.
Carefully consider the risks before granting administrative rights to users on their own
machines.
Scrub and verify all administrator accounts regularly.
Configure Group Policy to restrict all users to only one login session, where possible.
Enforce secure network authentication where possible.
Instruct administrators to use non-privileged accounts for standard functions such as Web

browsing or checking Web mail.
 TLP:
WHITE
10 of 
13 TLP:WHITE
Segment networks into logical enclaves and restrict host
-to-host communication paths.
Containment provided by enclaving also makes incident cleanup significantly less costly.
Configure firewalls to disallow RDP traffic coming from outside of the network
boundary, except for in specific configurations such as when tunneled through a

secondary VPN with lower privileges.
Audit existing firewall rules and close all ports that are not explicitly needed for business.

Specifically, carefully consider which ports should be connecting outbound versus

inbound.
Enforce a strict lockou
t policy for network users and closely monitor logs for failed login
activity. This can be indicative of failed intrusion activity.
If remote access between zones is an unavoidable business need, log and monitor these
connections closely.
In environments with a high risk of interception or intrusion, organizations should
consider supplementing password authentication with other forms of authentication such

as challenge/response or multifactor authentication using biometric or physical tokens.
Credentials
 Enforce a tiered administrative model with dedicated administrator workstations and

separate administrative accounts that are used exclusively for each tier to prevent tools, 

such as Mimikatz, for credential theft from harvesting domain-
level credentials.
 Implement multi
-factor authentication (e.g., smart cards) or at minimum ensure users
choose complex passwords that change regularly.
Be aware that some services (e.g., FTP, telnet, and .rlogin) transmit user credentials in
clear text. Minimize the use of th
ese services where possible or consider more secure
alternatives.
Properly secure password files by making hashed passwords more difficult to acquire.
Password hashes can be cracked within seconds using freely available tools. Consider
restricting access t
o sensitive password hashes by using a shadow password file or
equivalent on UNIX systems.
Replace or modify services so that all user credentials are passed through an encrypted

channel.
Avoid password policies that reduce the overall strength of credentials. Policies to avoid
include lack of password expiration date, lack of lockout policy, low or disabled

password complexity requirements, and password history set to zero.
Ensure that users are not re-using passwords between zones by setting policies and

conducting regular audits.
Use unique passwords for local accounts for each device.
 TLP:W
HITE
11 of 
13 TLP:WHITE
Logging Practices
 Ensure event logging (applications, events, login activities, security attributes, etc.) is
turned on or monitored for identification of security issues. 
Configure network logs to provide enough information to assist in quickly developing an

accurate determination of a security incident.
Upgrade PowerShell to new versions with enhanced logging features and monitor the
logs to detect usage of PowerShell commands, which are often malware
-related.
Secure logs, potentially in a centralized location, and protect them from modification.
Prepare an incident response plan that can be rapidly implemented in case of a cyber

intrusion.
How t
o Enhance Your Organizati
on™s Cybersecurity Posture
 DHS offers a variety of resources for organizations to help recognize and address their 
cybersecurity risks. Resources include discussion points, steps to start evaluating a cybersecurity 

program, and a list of hands-on resources available to organizations. For a list of services, visit 
https://www.us
-cert.gov/ccubedvp
. Other resources include:  
The Cyber Security Advisors (CSA)
 program bolsters cybersecurity preparedness, risk
mitigation, and incident response capabilities of critical infrastructure entities and more
closely aligns them with the Federal Government. CSAs are DHS personnel assigned to

districts throughout the country and territories, with at least one advisor in each of the 10

CSA regions, which mirror the Federal Emergency Management Agency regions. For
more information, email 
cyberadvisor@hq.dhs.gov
.Cyber Resilienc
e Review (CRR) 
is a no
-cost, voluntary assessment to evaluate and
enhance cybersecurity within critical infrastructure sectors, as well as state, local, tribal,
and territorial governments. The goal of the CRR is to develop an understanding and
measurement
 of key cybersecurity capabilities to provide meaningful indicators of an
entity™s operational resilience and ability to manage cyber risk to critical services during
normal operations and times of operational stress and crisis. Visit

https://www.cert.org/resilience/rmm.html
 to learn more about the CERT Resilience
Management Model.
 Enhanced Cybersecurity Services (ECS)
 helps critical infrastructure owners and
operators protect their systems by sharing
 sensitive and classified cyber threat
information with Commercial Service Providers (CSPs) and Operational Implementers

(OIs). CSPs then use the cyber threat information to protect CI customers. OIs use the

threat information to protect internal networks. 
For more information, email

ECS_Program@hq.dhs.gov
.The Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Collaboration Program (CISCP)
 is a
voluntary information-sharing and collaboration program between and among critic
al TLP:WH
ITE
12 of 
13 TLP:WHITE
infrastructure partners and the Federal Government. For more information, email 
CISCP@us
-cert.gov
. 
The Automated Indicator Sharing (AIS)
 initiative is a DHS effort to create a system
where as soon as a company or
 federal agency observes an attempted compromise, the
indicator will be shared in real time with all of our partners, protecting them from that

particular threat. That means adversaries can only use an attack once, which increases
their costs and ultimatel
y reduces the prevalence of cyber
-attacks. While AIS will not
eliminate sophisticated cyber threats, it will allow companies and federal agencies to
concentrate more on them by clearing away less sophisticated attacks.
AIS part
icipants connect to a DHS
-managed system in the NCCIC that allows 
bidirectional sharing of cyber threat indicators. A server housed at each participant™s 

location allows each to exchange indicators with the NCCIC. Participants will not only 

receive DHS
-developed indicators, but can share indicators they have observed in their 
own network defense efforts, which DHS will then share with all AIS participants. For 

more information, visit 
https://www.dhs.gov/ais
. The Cybersecurity Framework (Framewor
k), developed by the National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) in collaboration with the public and private sectors, is
a tool that can improve the cybersecurity readiness of entities. The Framework enables
entities, regardless of size, degree 
of cyber risk, or cyber sophistication, to apply

principles and best practices of risk management to improve the security and resiliency of

critical infrastructure. The Framework provides standards, guidelines, and practices that
are working effectively to
day. It consists of three partsŠ
the Framework Core, the
Framework Profile, and Framework Implementation Tiers
Šand emphasizes five
functions: Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover. Use of the Framework is
strictly voluntary. For more information, 
visit 
https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework
 or
email 
cyberframework@nist.gov
. TLP:WHITE
13 of 
13 TLP:WHITE
Contact Information
 Recipients of this report are encouraged to contribute any 
additional information
 th
at they
 ma
y have related
 t
o t
his t
hreat. Include the JAR
 r
eference numb
er (JAR-16-20296) in the 
subject line of all email correspondence. For any questions related to this report, please contact NCCIC 
or the FBI. NCCIC: Phone: +1-888-282-080  Email: 
NCCICCustomerService@hq.dhs.gov
 FBI:
 Phone: +1-855-292-3937 
Email: 
cywatch@ic.fbi.gov
 Feedback
 NCCIC continuously strives to improve its products and services. You can help by answering a 

few short questions about this product at the following URL:  

https://www.us
-cert.gov/forms/feedback
. 
