document.body.className + ' js-enabled' : 'js-enabled');   Skip to main content        Tell us whether you accept cookies We use cookies to collect information about how you use GOV.UK.
 We use this information to make the website work as well as possible and improve government services.
 Accept all cookies   Set cookie preferences       You’ve accepted all cookies.
 You can change your cookie settings at any time.
 Hide                     GOV.UK         Show or hide search      Search on GOV.UK      Search                         Coronavirus (COVID-19)         National restrictions in England from 5 November              The UK and EU transition         Take action now for new rules in 2021             Home   Visas and immigration   Seek protection or asylum           Claim asylum in the UK    Skip to contents of guide      Contents    Overview   Eligibility   Documents you must provide   Register your asylum claim   After your screening   Asylum interview      Get a decision      Help you can get   If you're under 18           Get a decision     Your application will usually be decided within 6 months.
 It may take longer if it’s complicated, for example:  your supporting documents need to be verified you need to attend more interviews your personal circumstances need to be checked, for example because you have a criminal conviction or you’re currently being prosecuted   Ask your legal adviser if you want an update on your application.
 You’ll be given or refused permission to stay in one of the following ways.
 Permission to stay as a refugee You and your dependants may be given permission to stay in the UK for 5 years if you qualify for asylum.
 This is known as ‘leave to remain’.
 After 5 years, you can apply to settle in the UK.
 Permission to stay for humanitarian reasons You may get permission to stay for humanitarian reasons if you do not qualify for asylum.
 This means you need to stay in the UK for your protection.
 You and your dependants may be given permission to stay in the UK for 5 years.
 This is known as ‘leave to enter’ or ‘leave to remain’.
 After 5 years, you can apply to settle in the UK.
 Permission to stay for other reasons You may get permission to stay for other reasons if you do not qualify for permission to stay as a refugee or for humanitarian reasons.
 How long you can stay will depend on your situation.
 You may be able to apply to extend your stay or settle in the UK towards the end of your stay.
 No reason to stay You’ll be asked to leave the UK if you do not qualify for asylum and your caseworker decides there’s no other reason for you to stay.
 You may be able to appeal against the decision.
 You’ll have to leave if you do not appeal in the time allowed, or if your appeal is unsuccessful.
 You can:  leave by yourself - you can get help with returning home  be forced to leave - you’ll get a letter before this happens, then you may be detained without warning at an immigration removal centre and then removed from the UK                Previous      : Asylum interview              Next      : Help you can get      Print entire guide         Related content      Asylum support Asylum applicants' rights and responsibilities Information leaflet for asylum applications Report an immigration or border crime            Explore the topic  Seek protection or asylum           Is this page useful?
 Maybe         Yes this page is useful        No this page is not useful       Thank you for your feedback       There is something wrong with this page        Close       Help us improve GOV.UK Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
 What were you doing?
 What went wrong?
 Send       Close        Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
 We’ll send you a link to a feedback form.
 It will take only 2 minutes to fill in.
 Don’t worry we won’t send you spam or share your email address with anyone.
 It may take longer if it’s complicated, for example: \n\n \n your supporting documents need to be verified \n you need to attend more interviews \n your personal circumstances need to be checked, for example because you have a criminal conviction or you’re currently being prosecuted \n \n\n \n Ask your legal adviser if you want an update on your application.
 \n \n\n You’ll be given or refused permission to stay in one of the following ways.
 \n\n Permission to stay as a refugee \n\n You and your dependants may be given permission to stay in the UK for 5 years if you qualify for asylum.
 This is known as ‘leave to remain’.
 \n\n After 5 years, you can apply to settle in the UK .
 \n\n Permission to stay for humanitarian reasons \n\n You may get permission to stay for humanitarian reasons if you do not qualify for asylum.
 This means you need to stay in the UK for your protection.
 \n\n You and your dependants may be given permission to stay in the UK for 5 years.
 This is known as ‘leave to enter’ or ‘leave to remain’.
 \n\n After 5 years, you can apply to settle in the UK .
 \n\n Permission to stay for other reasons \n\n You may get permission to stay for other reasons if you do not qualify for permission to stay as a refugee or for humanitarian reasons.
 \n\n How long you can stay will depend on your situation.
 \n\n You may be able to apply to extend your stay or settle in the UK towards the end of your stay.
 \n\n No reason to stay \n\n You’ll be asked to leave the UK if you do not qualify for asylum and your caseworker decides there’s no other reason for you to stay.
 \n\n You may be able to appeal against the decision .
 \n\n You’ll have to leave if you do not appeal in the time allowed, or if your appeal is unsuccessful.
