For Gates, “vaccines” seem to be his solution for the greatest problem – in his view – that exists…people.
 As you can see in the video below, Gates lauds vaccines as a way to limit the human population.
 How would vaccines lead to depopulation, when they’re ostensibly designed to make people healthy?
 Well, Gates is spending a whopping sum on contraception, abortion, and sterilization in Third World countries, but there’s a little secret about his vaccines as well.
 Who would have thought?
 Gates and his world-depopulation taskforce basically said “oopsie” and moved ahead.
 Facebook’s fact-checker, Africa Check, claims the stories are bogus but, quite frankly, Africa Check said our article about the LGBT demanding to be treated as a priority for coronavirus was bogus, and they only took issue with our use of scare quotes around the word “transgender.” So honestly, we don’t believe them.
 Facebook’s owner, Mark Zuckerberg, is partnering with Gates in his vaccine agenda, so their in-house “fact-checker” is hardly impartial.
 And now, Gates is leading the fight (he’s a computer guy, right?)
 to find a coronavirus vaccine.
 And Gates now argues that “mass gatherings” (churches) will not meet again until a vaccine is found and everyone is vaccinated.
 The press reports Gates said, “What does opening up look like?
 Which activities, like schools, can be done in a way that the risk of transmission is very low?
 And which activities, like mass gatherings, maybe — in a certain sense — more optional?
 Attorney General William Barr said he was “very concerned” about personal liberties by the suggestion.
 A CALL TO ACTION   Too many churches in America are lacking in discernment.
 Do you find yourself wishing you could help?
 Do you have a love for Scripture?
 And a desire to write to edify the church?
 We hear every day from people who want to make a difference but don't know how to get started.
 To answer this need, we created Writers Write: The 5-Day Challenge.
 This mini-course will jumpstart your goals by showing you how to write in a way that will have people saying “I care about that.”   Right now Pulpit &amp; Pen readers can get Writers Write: The 5-Day Challenge at a special 25% discount.
 Get your writing in front of people who will actually read it.
 Don't miss out on this special deal.
 Click here to get started.
 God Bless.
 ***   Stay informed.
 Subscribe Today.
 When you subscribe, please add newsletter@pulpitandpen.org to your contacts to ensure that your newsletter doesn’t go into your spam folder.
 Enter your email address below…         												Email Address											             Submit
