 Sudan Human Security Baseline Assessment (HSBA) 
 Small Arms Survey * 47 Avenue Blanc * 1202 Geneva * Switzerland
 http://www.smallarmssurveysudan.org
 2 Childr
en are prized in South Sudanese society and great pressure is placed on women 
to have as many as possible, an obligation that is even greater when a large dowry has 
been paid for a wife. A married woman of childbearing age is expected to become 
pregnant at
 least once every three years, and to continue until menopause. It is 
taboo
Ñalthough not uncommon
Ñfor a man to have sex with a woman while she is 
lactating, and this convention serves to create a gap between pregnancies.
  During the second civil war, femal
e reproduction became not just a societal obligation 
but also a contribution to the war effort. In an often
-quoted speech, former Sudan 
PeopleÕs Liberation Movement/Army (SPLM/A) leader Dr John Garang urged the 
women of South Sudan to stay away from the fr
ont lines and produce as many 
children as possible.
3 But it is not only external pressures that lead South Sudanese 
women to have numerous children: women themselves typically want large families. 
All the women interviewed for this paper expressed a desire
 to have as many children 
as possible. One woman said, Ôthere is no limit; if I can have 15 or 20, then I will. It is 
for God to decide.Õ One pregnant woman interviewed in Upper Nile state, already the 
mother of four children, explained that the baby she w
as carrying did not belong to 
her husband. He had abandoned her five years previously, so she approached the 
payam
 (district) chief with a request to be ÔassignedÕ another man from the 
community. This man effectively served as a sperm donor and had no othe
r involvement with the woman or her future offspring. The woman, who works as a 
cleaner for an international NGO, explained that with both of her parents dead and no 
siblings to provide support, children were her only guarantee of future security, as 
well as being a source of happiness and comfort.  
  Ironically, this drive to ensure future security by having many children leads to a 
more immediate form of insecurity. One in seven South Sudanese women will die in 
pregnancy or childbirth, often because of in
fections (from puerperal fever and 
retained placenta), haemorrhaging, or obstructed births, with a lack of access to 
healthcare facilities playing a large role in their deaths. The health sector, like so 
many other social services in South Sudan, was extre
mely weak prior to the civil war, 
and was devastated by the warÕs end. 
  Since the signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) in 2005, numerous 
international NGOs have supported the over
-burdened Ministry of Health as it 
struggles to build a health
care system from almost nothing. However, malaria is rife 
and acute respiratory infections, diarrhoeal diseases, and tuberculosis are common. 
Sexually transmitted diseases are also prevalent, with one hospital in Upper Nile state 
reporting syphilis rates o
f 60
Ð70 per cent in pregnant women who were tested as part 
of their antenatal care programme.
4  Since 2005 a new health threat has emerged in South Sudan. While HIV and AID
S have ravaged Africa during 
the past three decades, the civil war isolated (then) 
Southern Sudan and prevented  HIV/AIDS from taking hold. Since 2005, however, 
war-displaced people, returning refugees, and foreigners seeking work have flooded 
into South Sudan, increasing the risks of infection. Public awareness and 
understanding of HIV/A
IDS are very limited. Women, in particular, are vulnerable 
because they have little control over both the sex they have with their husbands and 
the sex their husbands have with other women (pre
-marital sex is not common.) The 
  Sudan Human Security Baseline Assessment (HSBA) 
 Small Arms Survey * 47 Avenue Blanc * 1202 Geneva * Switzerland
 http://www.smallarmssurveysudan.org
 3 practice of polygamy means tha
t if one person in a marital union is infected, the 
disease is likely to spread to two or three others, and to the babies born from the 
marriage. The use of contraceptives, including condoms, is extremely rare in South 
Sudan.
  Economic and food (in)securit
y The majority of women interviewed for this paper cited hunger as the biggest threat 
they face. South Sudanese women are the last to eat in their households, taking their 
food only after the men and children have finished. Women said they had an interest 
in ensuring that their children received sufficient food, because men with several 
wives might have numerous children and not care as 
much for each individual child.
  Food security remains a tremendous challenge in South Sudan, where only 4 per cent 
of ara
ble land is cultivated, and most food and other commodities are imported. While 
the Ôpost
-conflictÕ food situation has always been precarious, it has worsened since 
May 2011, when Sudan imposed an unofficial blockade on South Sudan, shutting 
down numerous 
cross
-border trade routes. Because of these measures, food prices in 
South Sudan have soared, putting tremendous pressure on families that were already 
struggling. In October 2011, the South Sudan National Bureau of Statistics reported 
that all staple food
s, such as maize and sorghum, were between 100 and 250 per cent 
more expensive than a year previously.
5   A woman in Doro refugee camp grinds grain
. She and her family 
fled Blue Nile state, where the 
government is carrying out an aerial b
ombing campaign
. © Jared Ferrie
  Traditionally, both men and women take part in agricultural activities. Many 
interviewees spoke nostalgically of halcyon pre
-war days when farmed food was 
plentiful. The war ma
de farming untenable for most South Sudanese and since the 
signing of the CPA, comparatively few have returned to agriculture.  In rural areas 
  Sudan Human Security Baseline Assessment (HSBA) 
 Small Arms Survey * 47 Avenue Blanc * 1202 Geneva * Switzerland
 http://www.smallarmssurveysudan.org
 4 farming is more common but mostly remains at a subsistence level. In many cases, the 
skills needed to cultivate t
he land have been lost, while equipment and seeds are also 
lacking. People are also reluctant to invest in agriculture because of uncertainty about 
future security. As one woman from Eastern Equatoria said: ÔHow can we know what 
will happen next year? Mayb
e we will work the land this year and it will all be lost 
again in war next year.Õ Many people also said the weather in recent years had been 
unfavourable for farming, compared to previous years. A September 2011 assessment 
carried out by the World Food Pr
ogramme and the Food and Agriculture Organization 
predicted that the food security situation in South Sudan was likely to worsen in 2012, 
with cereal production possibly falling by 40
Ð60 per cent.
6 Thirty
-seven per cent of 
South SudanÕs population 
is alrea
dy classified as Ômoderately food insecureÕ, and this 
figure is expected to rise in the coming year.
7  With food production at such a low level, the ability to generate income to buy 
(usually imported, more expensive) food becomes even more crucial. But So
uth 
SudanÕs nascent economy is desperately weak and very few jobs are available outside 
of government or NGO work. As there is very little private industry, jobs
Ñparticularly outside of urban centres
Ñare extremely scarce. In fact, after so many 
years of ci
vil war, the concept of a Ôprivate sectorÕ is foreign to most South Sudanese. 
Instead, most people hope, unrealistically, for government jobs. One woman in Upper 
Nile state echoed the opinions of many interviewees when she said: ÔThere has been 
no change f
or women since independence; our lives still depend on collecting and 
selling firewood. The government should be providing jobs through construction 
works, building schools and facilities.Õ She went on to explain that although South 
Sudanese women cannot b
e employed in construction because it is seen as menÕs 
work, they could cook and carry. With the Government of South Sudan recording the 
female adult illiteracy rate at 84 per cent, the vast majority of women are limited to 
manual work.
  Even those women w
ho are fortunate enough to have jobs usually do not have control 
of their own finances. Women who earn salaries typically take them home to their 
husbands, who then apportion a certain amount to their wives for food, clothes, and 
other necessities. If a ma
n has not yet paid off his wifeÕs dowry, she may be expected 
to give her salary to her father. An educated Nuer woman who works for an NGO 
explained: ÔMy husband has paid my dowry, which was 30 cows, but he hasnÕt yet 
paid my father for my education; that 
is another 30 cows. So every month I give my 
salary to my father, because he is the one whom I owe.Õ
  Marriage 
 Understanding South SudanÕs marriage traditions and the all
-encompassing impact 
they have on womenÕs and girlsÕ lives is crucial to recognizing 
the human security 
challenges. In South Sudan, marriage is not simply a matter between two individuals; 
it is a union of two families. As such, both the marriage and the married life are the 
concern of the wider community. Although the legal minimum age fo
r marriage is 18 
years, girls, particularly in rural areas, often get married much earlier. Such marriages 
are usually arranged. The men are typically in their early twenties for their first 
marriages, although marriage of boys in their teens is not uncomm
on, particularly in 
rural areas.
    Sudan Human Security Baseline Assessment (HSBA) 
 Small Arms Survey * 47 Avenue Blanc * 1202 Geneva * Switzerland
 http://www.smallarmssurveysudan.org
 5 Men and women interviewed in Nasir, Upper Nile, said they would consider a 
daughter to be marriageable at 15 or 16 years of age, but that a girl could be promised 
to a man much earlier. A suitable man may make a down payme
nt of one cow when a 
girl is as young as 12. Though she may remain with her family for another three or 
four years, she is effectively engaged to the man, who is expected to periodically 
provide more cows to continue building up the girlÕs dowry and mainta
in his 
commitment to the marriage. Girls younger than 12 may also be promised in 
marriage. In these instances, a man might provide a token such as a ring or bracelet, 
with cows given to the girlÕs family when she reaches puberty. One 24
-year
-old 
woman said
:  I was 11 years old when I was promised in marriage. The man was known to 
the family and would come to visit. At that time, I was girl, wearing just 
underwear around my familyÕs home, so when he came to visit I would run 
and hide from him. I didnÕt want 
to marry him, but I didnÕt have any choice. I 
had so many brothers who needed cattle [for marriage] and this man came 
with 30 cattle, so my father forced me to marry him.
  The payment of cattle as dowry is fundamental in South Sudanese culture. Since 
polyg
amy is widely practised, the more cattle a man obtains, the more wives he may 
have. The giving and receiving of cattle involves a wide network of family members, 
with uncles, cousins, and brothers helping the groom pay the dowry. Similarly, the 
received ca
ttle are distributed among the brideÕs male family members. Marriage is 
thus virtually a communal affair, intimately involving a large number of people.  
   Expectant mothers wait in the 
pre
natal clinic of Awei
l civil hospital in 
January 2011. This is the
 only 
hospital
 in the whole of Northern Bahr al 
Ghazal.
 © Phil Moore
     Sudan Human Security Baseline Assessment (HSBA) 
 Small Arms Survey * 47 Avenue Blanc * 1202 Geneva * Switzerland
 http://www.smallarmssurveysudan.org
 6 Domestic violence
 Domestic violence is endemic in South Sudan. While there is little authoritative 
research on the scale of the problem, anecdotal evidence from organizations and 
resear
chers working with women shows that the majority suffer from domestic 
violence and that it is widely accepted as being a normal part of married life Anyieth 
DÕAwol, director of the 
Roots
 Project, a Juba
-based NGO that provides 
approximately 60 women with l
ivelihood skills and income
-earning opportunities, 
says:
  At least once a month, one of the women will be forced off work because she 
has been physically abused by her husband. It might be beating with a stick, 
bites, cuts [or] bruises all over. Then other
s will have to take time off to look 
after her.
  Women do not go to the police to complain about violent husbands. ÔThey will just 
laugh at you and tell you to go home,Õ was a common refrain. Indeed, the vast 
majority of the women interviewed had accepted 
domestic violence as part of married 
life. All of the men interviewed claimed there was usually some kind of justification 
for beating a woman. One educated man, living in Upper Nile state, said:
  If you are part of the family, you can intervene, but if I 
hear a woman being 
beaten in another 
tukul
 [hut] and she is my neighbour, then I canÕt do anything 
about it. I donÕt know what she has done to deserve it, and anyway, the man 
will accuse me of having an affair with her and will turn on me.
  Just as the uni
on of two people is a family matter in South Sudan, the family is often 
enlisted to arbitrate marital disputes. While a woman is unlikely to seek help from the 
authorities if her husband abuses her, in cases of severe violence she may turn to the 
wider fam
ily for protection. Although this arrangement offers a system for lodging 
complaints, the vested interests of, particularly, the womanÕs family will inevitably 
play a part in the arbitration process; if there is a divorce, the womanÕs family will 
have to r
eturn the dowry cattle. Two focus group participants, speaking in Nasir in 
October 2011, said their friend, who was four months pregnant, had been kicked in 
the stomach by her husband and admitted to the local hospital the previous day. 
Although they said 
she clearly hated and feared her husband, she was forced to return 
home with him. Her friends explained: ÔWhere else will she go? What will she do? 
She cannot divorce him; her family will not accept it.Õ Another woman, interviewed 
in Upper Nile, said: ÔThe
 man will be very kind and do everything for you until you 
have had your first or second child. After that he knows you are trapped and [he] can 
treat you however he wishes.Õ  
  While divorce is on the increase in South Sudan, it is still uncommon. This is
 due to 
familial pressure to remain in marriages, as well as the issue of who gains custody of 
the children. In most cases, customary law dictates that the children of a divorced 
couple remain with the husband, unless they are still breastfeeding, in which
 case they 
may stay with the mother until they are weaned. In some communities the law 
provides that children of divorced parents may stay with the mother until they are six 
or seven years old. The risk of losing their children forces many South Sudanese 
women to remain in abusive marriages.  
   Sudan Human Security Baseline Assessment (HSBA) 
 Small Arms Survey * 47 Avenue Blanc * 1202 Geneva * Switzerland
 http://www.smallarmssurveysudan.org
 7  Sexual violence is common within marriage, although it would rarely be described as 
such, since sex is viewed as a husbandÕs right and prerogative. All the women 
interviewed for this paper said that sex within marria
ge occurs when the husband 
chooses. A woman does not have the right to refuse or to request sexual relations. One 
midwife working for an international NGO in South Sudan said young women and 
teenagers married to older men frequently came to the clinic comp
laining of pain 
during sex. She said: ÔThey would never describe it as abuse, but thatÕs what it is.Õ
   Nelwat Mayeek Fadal Mula, pictured on 23 June 2011, stands outside a building 
in Pariang (Unity 
state) h
ousing
 people displaced from
 Jau by bombings by
 the Sudan
 Armed Forces.
 © Phil Moore
  Widowhood
 While all women in South Sudan are vulnerable, the situation of widows is 
particularly precarious. In the Nilotic tribes of South Sudan, traditional practice 
dictates that a woman only marries once during he
r life. Even if her husband dies, she 
is not eligible for remarriage since the marriage bond remains even in death. When a 
woman is widowed, it is customary practice for her to be cared for by one of her 
husbandÕs relatives; this is usually a brother, but 
it may also be another male family 
member, including a stepson. This second union is not a marriage as such, but a 
means of maintaining the woman and her children within the family and providing her 
with more children. In the Dinka language, this man is gi
ven the title 
lak 
meaning Ôhe 
who enters the houseÕ. The woman may have children with her husbandÕs relative, but 
these children will carry the name of the deceased man. Marrying another man outside 
of the husbandÕs family would be highly unusual since the
 woman not only remains 
married to her dead husband but also to his family. As one Dinka woman from 
Warrap state explained:
    Sudan Human Security Baseline Assessment (HSBA) 
 Small Arms Survey * 47 Avenue Blanc * 1202 Geneva * Switzerland
 http://www.smallarmssurveysudan.org
 8 If you want to marry again, you must go to court and divorce your husband 
who has passed away. If you do this, then you will have t
o return half your 
dowry and all your children. This would be the only way. But anyway, it is not 
allowed.
  For many women, this arrangement, known as levirate marriage, offers a pragmatic 
solution, ensuring a form of security. Indeed, widows from higher c
lasses of society 
who were interviewed for this paper emphasized that they and other women in their 
position are respected by their communities while also being freed from some of the 
more onerous duties of a wife.
  During the war, however, the practice of
 levirate marriage was often untenable. The 
war split communities as many went to fight or fled the country. In this situation, 
when a man died his wife was unlikely to have recourse to her husbandÕs family 
members, who may have been hundreds of miles away
, in refugee camps, or dead. 
Achien, 32, from Wau, Western Bahr al Ghazal, lived and travelled with the Sudan 
PeopleÕs Liberation Army (SPLA) throughout the war, working as a cook and carrier. 
She, like many other women, took a Ôwar
-time husbandÕ, forming 
a union that was 
made without the payment of a dowry to her family, making it an unofficial marriage 
in South Sudanese culture. She had three children with this man. When he was killed 
in the fighting, she was unable to turn to his family for support. Achi
en struggled on 
until the end of the war, and then returned to her own family. ÔThey wouldnÕt accept 
me back and told me they never wanted to see me again, because I had thrown away 
my chance to bring them a dowry,Õ she said.  
  AchienÕs situation is far f
rom unique. Throughout South Sudan, widowed women are 
extremely vulnerable. The lack of public safety nets means they have no support. One 
widow from a well
-connected family, who is now a member of parliament, said 
widows are only given token commemoration
 on days of national significance:  
  They remember widows when there is something to be done. Do they want to 
hear about our suffering? What will they do with it? If you see our widows 
now you will cry to see their condition. If somebody like me who is an
 MP 
and a widow cannot get any support, what about those women in the villages 
who have nobody to speak for them? They have no chance. They have 
nobody. Widows are being treated like animals.
   Conclusion
 Life in the worldÕs newest nation is a daily strugg
le for the vast majority of its people. 
Before 9 July 2011, many South Sudanese thought that independence would bring a 
more prosperous life and greater security. The reality is that the human security 
situation of most South Sudanese remains precarious. F
or women in particular, health, 
food, and personal security needs remain unsatisfied. In the home, th
e place where 
they should feel 
most secure, women face numerous threats. Only by addressing the 
concept of safety from a human security perspective will it
 be possible to address 
these threats.
  January 2012
   Sudan Human Security Baseline Assessment (HSBA) 
 Small Arms Survey * 47 Avenue Blanc * 1202 Geneva * Switzerland
 http://www.smallarmssurveysudan.org
 9   A South Sudanese 
woman
 at a public rally on 
5 July 2011
 organized
 by the Sudanese People's 
Liberation Movement, 
just four days before the country's independence.
 © Phil Moore
  NOTES                                                  1 Fieldwork for this paper included interviews and focus groups in rural and semi
-rura
l areas around the 
town of Nasir, Upper Nile state, and its surrounding villages. This decision was made consciously, as 
much of the literature available on women in South Sudan is based on studies in urban areas, and thus 
biased towards urban communities.
 The author also drew on earlier research projects and fieldwork 
undertaken in Juba, Wau, Rumbek, Torit and Aweil.
 2 The two dominant tribes in South Sudan
, both politically and numerically
, are the Dinka and the 
Nuer, accounting for 40 per cent and 20 per
 cent of the population, respectively. Although these two 
tribes have some practices that are distinct from one another, both are Nilotic cattle keepers 
and  share 
many cultural and social practices. Other tribal groups each account for less than 10 per ce
nt of the 
population.
 3 Stone, Lydia. 2011. ÔÓWe Were All SoldiersÓ: Female Combatants in South Sudan.Õ In Friederike 
Bubenzer and Orly Stern, eds.
 Hope, Pain and Patience: The Lives of Women in South Sudan
. Johannesburg: Jacana, p.29.
 4 A number of other 
diseases may affect  a syphilis test, resulting in either a false positive or, indeed, a 
false negative. This caveat notwithstanding, the number of reported cases in the hospital in question is 
extraordinarily high.
 5 UN Office for the Coordination of Huma
nitarian Affairs. 2011. 
ÒWeekly Humanitarian BulletinÓ. 
27 October
. <http://reliefweb.int/sites/reliefweb.int/files/resources/Full_Report_2787.pdf
>. 6 South Sudan Ministry of Agriculture. 2011. 
Rapid Crop Assessment Report, 
September, p. 
5. 7 World Food Pr
ogramme. 
2011 South
 Sudan Food Security Monitoring, 
October,
 p.1. 