Thimerosal  and 
Children™s Flu Shots:
Inactivated influenza 
vaccine (IIV) in children 
<2 years of age: 
Examination of selected 
adverse events reported 
to the Vaccine Adverse 
Event Reporting System 
(VAERS) after thimerosal-
free or thimerosal-
containing vaccine
This study measured the proportion of injection site reactions (ISR), rash, and infections reported 
to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) after testing three versions of an 
inactivated influenza vaccine (IIV) in children less than 2 years of age. The three versions of IIV 
included thimerosal-free, thimerosal-including, and ones in which the presence of thimerosal 
could not be determined. The study found no difference between the proportion of ISR, rash, or 
infections in all three versions of IIV.
 ˜McMahon AW, Iskander JK, Haber P, Braun MM, Ball R. Inactivated influenza vaccine (IIV) in 
children <2 years of age: Examination of selected adverse events reported to the Vaccine 
Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) after thimerosal-free or thimerosal-containing 
vaccine. Vaccine. 2008 Jan; 26(3):427-429.
Thimerosal and 
neurodevelopmental 
disorders
Early Thimerosal 
Exposure and 
Neuropsychological 
Outcomes at 7 to 10 
Years
This study measured neurodevelopmental disorders in children. The study found only a few 
statistically significant associations between exposure from thimerosal and neuropsychological 
functioning. Results of this study show no link between thimerosal-containing vaccines and 
neurodevelopmental disorders in children.  
 ˜Thompson WW, Price C, Goodson B, Shay DK, Benson P, et al. Early Thimerosal Exposure and 
Neuropsychological Outcomes at 7 to 10 Years. N Engl J Med 2007; 357:1281-1292.
Thimerosal and health 
outcomes
Safety of Thimerosal-
containing vaccines: 
a two-phased study 
of computerized 
health maintenance 
organization databases
This study looked for possible links between thimerosal-containing vaccines and a variety of 
health problems. CDC and research partners found statistically significant associations between 
thimerosal and language delays and tics.  However, the associations were weak and were not 
consistent between study populations. The study found no link between thimerosal and Autism.  
 ˜Verstraeten T, Davis RL, DeStefano F, Lieu TA, Rhodes PH, et al. Safety of thimerosal-con
-taining vaccines: a two-phased study of computerized health maintenance organization 
databases. Pediatrics. 2003 Nov;112(5):1039-48.
Effects of removing 
 thimerosal
Autism and thimerosal-
containing vaccines: lack 
of consistent evidence 
for an association.
Effects of removing 
thimerosal
This study compared the prevalence and incidence of autism in California, Sweden, and Denmark 
with average exposures to thimerosal-containing vaccines between the mid-1980s and the 
late-1990s. In California, thimerosal in vaccines increased throughout the 1990s. In contrast, 
Sweden and Denmark decreased thimerosal in the late 1980s and eliminated thimerosal in the 
early 1990s. In all three countries, the incidence and prevalence of autism increased significantly 
between the mid-1980s and the late 1990s. These findings indicate that increased exposure to 
thimerosal-containing vaccines is not responsible for increased rates of autism.
 ˜Stehr-Green P, Tull P, Stellfeld M, Mortenson PB, Simpson D. Autism and thimerosal-contain
-ing vaccines: lack of consistent evidence for an association. American Journal of Preventive 
Medicine. 2003 Aug; 25(2): 101-106.
Comparing outcomes 
with and without thimerosal
Autism and thimerosal-
containing vaccines: lack 
of consistent evidence 
for an association
In 1992, Denmark and Sweden stopped using thimerosal in vaccines. This study compared the 
rate of Autism in these countries before and after thimerosal was removed. In both countries, 
Autism rates increased between 1987 and 1999. If thimerosal exposure was related to Autism, 
one would expect that Autism rates would decrease after 1992 when children were no longer 
being exposed. 
 ˜Stehr-Green P, Tull P, Stellfeld M, Mortenson PB, Simpson D. Autism and thimerosal-
containing vaccines: lack of consistent evidence for an association. Am J Prev Med. 2003 
Aug;25(2):101-6.
