Skip to Main Content             POLITICO              Magazine  The Agenda  Pro   Search    Search                SECTIONS   Congress  White House  Magazine  The Agenda  Video  Podcasts     2020 Elections   News  All Election Results  Presidential Results  Senate Results  House Results  Governor Results  Key Ballot Measures  Tracking Threats to the Election     NEWSLETTERS   Playbook  Playbook PM  POLITICO Nightly  Transition Playbook  Huddle  All Newsletters    SERIES   The Fifty  The Vaccine Race  What Works  Women Rule     POLITICO LIVE   Live Home  Upcoming Events  Previous Events  About POLITICO Live    COLUMNS &amp; CARTOONS   Rich Lowry  Jack Shafer  Matt Wuerker  Cartoon Carousel     POLICY   Agriculture  Cannabis  Cybersecurity  Defense  Education  eHealth  Employment &amp; Immigration  Energy &amp; Environment  Finance &amp; Tax  Health Care  Space  Sustainability  Technology  Trade  Transportation     EDITIONS   California  Canada  Europe  Florida  New Jersey  New York  Pro     Follow us   Twitter  Instagram  Facebook      My Account  Log InLog Out                           congress  Democrats to plow ahead with proxy voting over GOP resistance House Republicans have angrily opposed the plan to permit some remote voting.
 House Speaker Nancy Pelosi wants to go ahead with proxy voting in the House during the coronavirus pandemic.
 The House could vote as soon as next week on a major — though temporary — change in the chamber's rules to allow lawmakers to cast votes remotely for colleagues who can’t travel to Washington amid the outbreak.
 Pelosi and Hoyer announced the plans on a caucuswide call on Monday, though they did not commit to a specific timeline, according to multiple people on the call.
 During the call, Pelosi asked members to text her if they supported proxy voting.
 The result of the informal survery, Pelosi said, was 20 to 1 in favor.
 Republicans were upset by the Democratic leaders’ announcement, complaining they heard about it on Twitter.
 The move marks another reversal on the issue by Pelosi and top Democrats, who abruptly scrapped plans last week to alter the rules after Republicans balked.
 Party leaders instead created a task force led by Hoyer and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy to come up with changes that both parties could approve.
 But six days later, Pelosi and Hoyer say they now intend to muscle through the changes on the floor with mostly, if not all, Democratic votes.
 House GOP leaders have signaled they are opposed to the Democrats’ current plans for proxy voting, with many Republicans arguing that lawmakers should be working in person.
 Health experts, including the House's attending physician, however, have warned that there will need to be major operational changes to protect members and staff from further spreading the virus.
 Democratic lawmakers have repeatedly pressed Pelosi and Hoyer for some kind of remote voting to allow the institution to function even as members work from home to deal with outbreaks in their districts.
 Lawmakers have sought ways to conduct business remotely, including votes, debate and hearings.
 CORONAVIRUS: WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW President Donald Trump and Melania Trump have tested positive for Covid-19.
 Confirmed U.S. Cases: 7,292,422 | U.S.
 Deaths: 208,068  How coronavirus will change the world permanently Coronavirus cases, tracked state by state Are you a health care worker?
 Tell us what you're seeing    TOP DEVELOPMENTS  Here's what we know — and don't — about Trump's Covid case.
 Joe Biden tested negative for Covid-19.
 Trump's diagnosis could spell disaster for his campaign.
 The Trump team is on guard against foreign adversaries who could exploit the president's illness.
 Republicans ripped Democrats' decision to move forward on a partisan basis.
 “It’s clear that Democrats have no idea how to run the House during this critical time," said Mark Bednar, a McCarthy spokesman.
 "Worse still, Democrats are now willing to sacrifice over 200 years of precedent to atone for their lack of planning and leadership."
 Meanwhile, even as Democratic leaders took steps to allow more remote participation, they also announced Monday that the House would return in regular session on Monday, May 4.
 That timeline drew complaints from several members on the call, who worried that bringing hundreds of lawmakers back to Washington — defying the city’s own health guidance — could risk further spreading the virus.
