Skip to main content       Toggle navigation           Home  Medicines   Browse Medicine A-Z Browse Active Ingredient A-Z Medicines with Black Triangle Discontinued Medicines Report Side Effect RMM Directory   Companies Latest Updates About emc Help Sign up | Log in            Search emc: Enter medicine name or company  Start typing to retrieve search suggestions.
 When suggestions are available use up and down arrows to review and ENTER to select.
 Continue typing to refine.
 GO Advanced Search &gt;           Replenine-VF 50 IU/ml powder and solvent for solution for injection      Back to top      Bio Products Laboratory Limited contact details      Active ingredient  factor IX    Legal Category POM: Prescription only medicine       Report Side Effect   Related Medicines  Same active ingredients Same company    Bookmark  Email        SmPC Patient Leaflet          Last updated on emc: 16 Sep 2020    View changes    Print      Show table of contents Hide table of contents  1.
 Name of the medicinal product2.
 Qualitative and quantitative composition3.
 Pharmaceutical form4.
 Clinical particulars4.1 Therapeutic indications4.2 Posology and method of administration4.3 Contraindications4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines4.8 Undesirable effects4.9 Overdose5.
 Pharmacological properties5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties5.2 Pharmacokinetic properties5.3 Preclinical safety data6.
 Pharmaceutical particulars6.1 List of excipients6.2 Incompatibilities6.3 Shelf life6.4 Special precautions for storage6.5 Nature and contents of container6.6 Special precautions for disposal and other handling7.
 Marketing authorisation holder8.
 Marketing authorisation number(s)9.
 Date of first authorisation/renewal of the authorisation10.
 Date of revision of the text         This information is intended for use by health professionals  1.
 Name of the medicinal product Replenine-VF 50 IU/ml powder and solvent for solution for injection 2.
 Qualitative and quantitative composition Replenine-VF contains high purity human coagulation factor IX.
 500 IU  Each vial contains nominally 500 IU human coagulation factor IX.
 Replenine-VF contains approximately 50 IU/ml of human coagulation factor IX after reconstitution at full volume.
 1000 IU  Each vial contains nominally 1000 IU human coagulation factor IX.
 Replenine-VF contains approximately 50 IU/ml of human coagulation factor IX after reconstitution at full volume.
 One ml of Replenine-VF contains approximately 100 IU human coagulation factor IX after reconstitution at half volume (see section 6.6).
 The potency (IU) is determined using the European Pharmacopoeia one stage clotting test.
 The specific activity of Replenine-VF is approximately 100 IU/mg protein.
 Produced from the plasma of human donors.
 Excipient with known effect: This medicinal product contains up to 83 mg sodium per vial, equivalent to 4% of the WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult.
 For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
 3.
 Pharmaceutical form Powder and solvent for solution for injection.
 Powder: White or slightly coloured powder.
 Solvent: Clear colourless liquid.
 4.
 Clinical particulars 4.1 Therapeutic indications Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia B (congenital factor IX deficiency).
 Replenine-VF can be used for all age groups.
 4.2 Posology and method of administration Treatment should be under the supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of haemophilia.
 Treatment monitoring  During the course of treatment, appropriate determination of factor IX levels is advised to guide the dose to be administered and the frequency of repeated infusions.
 Dose based on body weight may require adjustment in underweight or overweight patients.
 In the case of major surgical interventions in particular, precise monitoring of the substitution therapy by means of coagulation analysis (plasma factor IX activity) is indispensable.
 When using an in vitro thromboplastin time (aPTT)-based one stage clotting assay for determining factor IX activity in patients' blood samples, plasma factor IX activity results can be significantly affected by both the type of aPTT reagent and the reference standard used in the assay.
 This is of importance particularly when changing the laboratory and/or reagents used in the assay.
 Posology  Dose and duration of the substitution therapy depend on the severity of the factor IX deficiency, on the location and extent of the bleeding and on the patient's clinical condition.
 The number of units of factor IX administered is expressed in International Units (IU), which are related to the current WHO standard for factor IX products.
 Factor IX activity in plasma is expressed either as a percentage (relative to normal human plasma) or in International Units (relative to an International Standard for factor IX in plasma).
 One International Unit (IU) of factor IX activity is equivalent to that quantity of factor IX in one ml of normal human plasma.
 On demand treatment  The calculation of the required dose of factor IX is based on the empirical finding that 1 International Unit (IU) of factor IX per kg body weight raises the plasma factor IX activity by 1.16% of normal activity.
 In the case of the following haemorrhagic events, the factor IX activity should not fall below the given plasma activity level (in IU/dl) in the corresponding period.
 The following table can be used to guide dosing in bleeding episodes and surgery:   Degree of haemorrhage/ Type of surgical procedure    Factor IX level required (%) or (IU/dl)    Frequency of doses (hours)/ Duration of therapy (days)    Haemorrhage   Early haemarthrosis, muscle bleeding or oral bleeding  20-40  Repeat every 24 hours.
 At least 1 day, until the bleeding episode as indicated by pain is resolved or healing is achieved.
 More extensive haemarthrosis, muscle bleeding or haematoma  30-60   Repeat infusion every 24 hours for 3 to 4 days or more until pain and acute disability are resolved.
 Life threatening haemorrhages   60-100   Repeat infusion every 8 to 24 hours until threat is resolved.
 Surgery   Minor surgery including tooth extraction  30-60  Every 24 hours, at least 1 day, until healing is achieved.
 Major surgery   80-100 (pre- and post-operative)   Repeat infusion every 8 to 24 hours until adequate wound healing, then therapy for at least another 7 days to maintain a factor IX activity of 30% to 60% (IU/dl).
 Prophylaxis  For long term prophylaxis against bleeding in patients with severe haemophilia B, the usual doses are 20 to 40 IU of factor IX per kilogram of body weight at intervals of 3 to 4 days.
 In some cases, especially in younger patients, shorter dosage intervals or higher doses may be necessary.
 Continuous infusion  Prior to surgery, a pharmacokinetic analysis should be performed to obtain an estimate of clearance.
 After the initial 24 hours of continuous infusion, the clearance should be calculated again every day using the steady state equation with the measured level and the known rate of infusion (see section 5.2).
 Paediatric population   Children under 12 years of age  There are limited data on the use of Replenine-VF in children under 12 years of age (see section 5.1).
 The recommended dose and dosing frequency in adolescents (aged 12-17 years) are as recommended for adults.
 Method of administration  Intravenous use.
 Replenine-VF should be administered via the intravenous route at a rate not exceeding 3 ml per minute.
 For instructions on reconstitution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6.
 4.3 Contraindications Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use  Traceability  In order to improve traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number of the administered product should be clearly recorded.
 Hypersensitivity  Allergic type hypersensitivity reactions are possible with Replenine-VF.
 The product contains traces of human proteins other than factor IX.
 If symptoms of hypersensitivity occur, patients should be advised to discontinue use of the medicinal product immediately and contact their physician.
 Patients should be informed of the early signs of hypersensitivity reactions including hives, generalised urticaria, tightness of the chest, wheezing, hypotension and anaphylaxis.
 In case of shock, standard medical treatment for shock should be implemented.
 Inhibitors  After repeated treatment with human coagulation factor IX products, patients should be monitored for the development of neutralising antibodies (inhibitors) that should be quantified in Bethesda Units (BU) using appropriate biological testing.
 There have been reports in the literature showing a correlation between the occurrence of a factor IX inhibitor and allergic reactions.
 Therefore, patients experiencing allergic reactions should be evaluated for the presence of an inhibitor.
 It should be noted that patients with factor IX inhibitors may be at an increased risk of anaphylaxis with subsequent challenge with factor IX.
 Because of the risk of allergic reactions with factor IX products, the initial administrations of factor IX should, according to the treating physician's judgement, be performed under medical observation where proper medical care for allergic reactions could be provided.
 Thromboembolism  Because of the potential risk of thrombotic complications, clinical surveillance for early signs of thrombotic and consumptive coagulopathy should be initiated with appropriate biological testing when administering this product to patients with liver disease, to patients post-operatively, to new-born infants, or to patients at risk of thrombotic phenomena or DIC.
 In each of these situations, the benefit of treatment with Replenine-VF should be weighed against the risk of these complications.
 Cardiovascular events  In patients with existing cardiovascular risk factors, substitution therapy with factor IX may increase the cardiovascular risk.
 Catheter-related complications  If a central venous access device (CVAD) is required, risk of CVAD-related complications including local infections, bacteraemia and catheter site thrombosis should be considered.
 Transmissible agents  Standard measures to prevent infections resulting from the use of medicinal products prepared from human blood or plasma include selection of donors, screening of individual donations and plasma pools for specific markers of infection and the inclusion of effective manufacturing steps for the inactivation/removal of viruses.
 Despite this, when medicinal products prepared from human blood or plasma are administered, the possibility of transmitting infective agents cannot be totally excluded.
 This also applies to unknown or emerging viruses and other pathogens.
 The measures taken are considered effective for enveloped viruses such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B (HBV) and hepatitis C (HCV), and for the non-enveloped hepatitis A and parvovirus B19 viruses.
 It is strongly recommended that every time that Replenine-VF is administered to a patient, the name and batch number of the product are recorded in order to maintain a link between the patient and the batch of the product.
 Appropriate vaccination (hepatitis A and B) should be considered for patients in regular/repeated receipt of human plasma-derived factor IX products.
 Paediatric population  The listed warnings and precautions apply both to adults and children.
 4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction No interactions of human coagulation factor IX products with other medicinal products have been reported.
 4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with factor IX.
 Based on the rare occurrence of haemophilia B in women, experience regarding the use of factor IX during pregnancy and breast-feeding is not available.
 Therefore, factor IX should be used during pregnancy and lactation only if clearly indicated.
 4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines Replenine-VF has no influence on the ability to drive and use machines.
 4.8 Undesirable effects  Summary of the safety profile  Hypersensitivity or allergic reactions (which may include angioedema, burning and stinging at the infusion site, chills, flushing, generalised urticaria, headache, hives, hypotension, lethargy, nausea, restlessness, tachycardia, tightness of the chest, tingling, vomiting, wheezing) have been observed rarely.
 In some cases, these reactions have progressed to severe anaphylaxis (including shock), and they have occurred in close temporal association with development of factor IX inhibitors (see section 4.4).
 Nephrotic syndrome has been reported following attempted immune tolerance induction in haemophilia B patients with factor IX inhibitors and a history of allergic reaction.
 Patients with haemophilia B may develop neutralising antibodies (inhibitors) to factor IX.
 If such inhibitors occur, the condition will manifest itself as an insufficient clinical response.
 In such cases, it is recommended that a specialised haemophilia centre be contacted.
 There is a potential risk of thromboembolic episodes following the administration of factor IX products, with a higher risk for low purity preparations.
 The use of low purity factor IX products has been associated with instances of myocardial infarction, disseminated intravascular coagulation, venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism.
 The use of high purity factor IX is rarely associated with such adverse reactions.
 For safety information with respect to transmissible agents, see section 4.4.
 Tabulated list of adverse reactions The table presented below is according to the MedDRA system organ classification (SOC and Preferred Term Level).
 Frequencies have been evaluated according to the following convention: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to ');  ($.fn.alert&amp;&amp;$.fn.alert.Constructor.VERSION)||document.write(' ');
