Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                 Vital Signs            Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                            HIV and Injection Drug UseSyringe Services Programs for HIV PreventionEspañol (Spanish)     Minus     Related Pages       On This Page  OverviewProblemInfographicWhat Can Be DoneIssue Details   pdf icon   Overview  Sharing needles, syringes, and other injection equipment puts people who inject drugs (PWID) at high risk for getting HIV and other infections, including hepatitis.
 Annual HIV diagnoses among black and Hispanic/Latino PWID were cut in half between 2008–2014, but diagnoses among white PWID dropped by only 28%.
 One reason may be that fewer blacks and Hispanics/Latinos are sharing needles and syringes, while whites are more likely to share them.
 Syringe services programs (SSPs) can play a role in preventing HIV and other health problems among PWID.
 They provide access to sterile syringes and should also provide comprehensive services such as help with stopping substance misuse; testing and linkage to treatment for HIV, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C; education on what to do for an overdose; and other prevention services.
 State and local health departments can work with their lawmakers and law enforcement to make SSPs more available to PWID.
 State and local health departments can:  Use data on HIV, hepatitis, substance use, and overdoses to determine where services are needed.
 Work with law enforcement and local leaders to expand access to SSPs, where permitted by law.
 Provide HIV and hepatitis testing and prevention services for PWID.
 Ensure treatment is available for overdoses, HIV, hepatitis, and substance use disorder, and inform first responders about available resources.
 Top of Page  1 in 10 HIV diagnoses are among people who inject drugs (PWID).
 More than half of PWID used a syringe services program in 2015.
 Only 1 in 4 PWID got all their syringes from sterile sources in 2015.
 ProblemHIV diagnoses among PWID have decreased, but progress has been uneven.
 The number of PWID getting HIV has been cut in half in the U.S.
 Annual HIV diagnoses among PWID decreased by 48% overall (2008–2014).
 Annual HIV diagnoses fell by about 50% among black and Hispanic/Latino PWID, both in urban and nonurban areas (2008–2014).
 Annual HIV diagnoses dropped by 28% among urban white PWID during 2008–2012, but did not decrease from 2012–2014.
 Trends among nonurban whites were similar.
 There have been changes in who is starting to inject drugs.
 *  In 2005, blacks and whites each made up 38% of new PWID (those who have been injecting for 5 years or less).
 In 2015, blacks made up 19% of new PWID and whites made up 54%.
 The percent of new PWID who are Hispanic/Latino stayed around the same at about 21%.
 Some PWID are at higher risk for getting HIV from sharing syringes.
 *  About 46% of new white PWID shared syringes, compared with 32% of Hispanics/Latinos and 28% of blacks.
 White PWID started injecting at younger ages than other races/ethnicities, and younger people were more likely to share syringes.
 Syringe sharing was low (13%) among PWID who got all their syringes from sterile sources like SSPs, but high (41%) among those who didn’t.
 *In 22 cities with a high number of HIV cases  View large image and text description  Top of Page    Infographic View larger image and text description  Top of Page  What Can Be DoneThe Federal government is  Allowing certain state and local prevention programs to use their federal funds for SSPs (not to buy needles, syringes, and other injection equipment).
 For more information, visit http://bit.ly/2eVU8abexternal icon.
 Providing support and access to HIV, hepatitis, and substance use disorder prevention and treatment, including medication-assisted treatment and mental health services.
 Providing guidelines to healthcare providers for appropriate prescribing practices to reduce opioid abuse and overdoses.
 Monitoring national trends for HIV, hepatitis, and drug overdoses.
 State and local health departments can  Use data on HIV, hepatitis, substance use, and overdoses to determine where services are needed.
 Work with law enforcement and local leaders to expand access to SSPs, where permitted by law.
 Provide HIV and hepatitis testing and prevention services for PWID.
 Ensure treatment is available for overdoses, HIV, hepatitis, and substance use disorder, and inform first responders about available resources.
 Healthcare providers can  Screen patients for substance use disorder, including the misuse of prescription opioids.
 Provide or link PWID to medication-assisted treatment, and link them to mental health services, if needed.
 Use CDC opioid prescribing guidelines, http://bit.ly/1jTLLejexternal icon Test PWID for HIV and hepatitis and treat them if they are infected.
 Vaccinate patients for hepatitis A and B, if appropriate.
 Prescribe sterile syringes to PWID, or refer them to SSPs or pharmacies that provide sterile syringes, where permitted by law.
 Provide or refer PWID to HIV risk reduction counseling.
 Consider prescribing pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for PWID at very high HIV risk.
 Prevent overdose deaths by providing naloxone or referring PWID to pharmacies or community-based programs that provide it, where permitted by law.
 Lawmakers, judges, police and other criminal justice officials can  Address legal and law enforcement barriers that prevent or discourage the use of SSPs and substance use disorder treatment, including use of medication-assisted treatment.
 Refer PWID to substance use disorder treatment and HIV and hepatitis prevention services.
 Support HIV and hepatitis testing and care and hepatitis vaccination in prisons and jails.
 People who inject drugs can  Get help to stop injecting drugs.
 SAMHSA.govexternal icon, or 1-800-662-HELP (4357).
 Use only new, sterile syringes, safely dispose of used syringes, and never share any equipment if injecting drugs.
 Contact the local health department or NASEN.orgexternal icon to find an SSP.
 Get tested for HIV and hepatitis C at least once a year.
 Get vaccinated for hepatitis A and B if not infected.
 People who have HIV or hepatitis should get medical care and take medicines as prescribed.
 Top of Page    Issue DetailsRelated PagesOther SitesScience Behind the Issue Vital Signs Issue details: HIV and Injection Drug Use, Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Vital Signs – HIV and Injection Drug Use [PODCAST – 1:15 minutes] Vital Signs – HIV and Injection Drug Use [PSA – 0:60 seconds] CDC Program Guidance for Implementing Certain Components of Syringe Services Programs, 2016Cdc-pdfpdf icon CDC Consultations on Determination of SSP Need Requests CDC Statement on Syringe Services Programs, Dec. 21, 2015 HIV and Injection Drug Use in the United States HIV Basics HIV Risk Reduction Tool (Beta Version) Act Against AIDS Injury Prevention &amp; Control: Opioid Overdose Viral Hepatitis   MedlinePlus – Drug AbuseExternalexternal icon MedlinePlus – HIV/AIDSExternalexternal icon County-Level Vulnerability Assessment for HIV or HCV Infections Among PWIDExternalexternal icon HHS Implementation Guidance to Support Certain Components of Syringe Services Programs, 2016Cdc-pdfExternalpdf iconexternal icon Get Tested AIDS.govExternalexternal icon AIDSInfoExternalexternal icon UNAIDSExternalexternal icon   Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Science Clips  Top of Page          
 					Page last reviewed: November 29, 2016 Content source: 	National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, Sexual Transmitted Diseases and Tuberculosis Prevention          home Vital Signs   Topics Covered All CDC Vital Signs Digital Media Tools     email_03Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:  Email Address  What's this?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
