¥ The terminal event  (e.g., cardiac arrest or respiratory arrest) should not be used.  If a mechanism of death seems most appropriate to you for Line a, then you 
must always list its cause(s) on the line(s) below it (e.g., cardiac arrest 
due to coronary artery atherosclerosis 
orcardiac arrest due to blunt impact to chest). 
¥ If an organ system failure such as congestive heart failure, hepatic failure, renal failure, or respiratory failure is listed as a cause of death, always report its 
etiology on the line(s) beneath it (e.g., renal failure 
due to Type I diabetes mellitus). 
¥ When indicating neoplasms as a cause of death, include the following: 1) primary site 
or that the primary site is unknown, 2) benign or malignant, 3) cell type 
or that the cell type is unknown, 4) grade of neoplasm, and 5) part or lobe of organ affected. Example: a primary well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, lung, 
left upper lobe. 
Part II (Other significant conditions) 
¥ Enter all diseases or conditions contributing to death that were not reported in the chain of events in Part I and that did not result in the 
underlying cause of 
death.  See examples. 
¥ If two or more possible sequences resulted in death, or if two conditions seem to have added together, report in Part I the one that, in your opinion, most directly 
caused death.  Report in Part II the other conditions or diseases. 
CHANGES TO CAUSE OF DEATH 
If additional medical information or autopsy findings become available that would change the cause of death originally reported, the original death certificate should 
be amended by the certifying physician by 
immediately
 reporting the revised cause of death to the State Vital Records Office. 
ITEMS 33 and 34 - AUTOPSY 
¥ 33 - Enter ÒYes
Ó if either a partial or full autopsy was performed. Otherwise enter 
ÒNo.
Ó ¥ 34 - Enter ÒYes
Ó if autopsy findings were available to complete the cause of death; otherwise enter 
ÒNo.
Ó  Leave item blank if no autopsy was performed. 
ITEM 35 - DID TOBACCO USE CONTRIBUTE TO DEATH? 
Check 
ÒYes
Ó if, in your opinion, the use of tobacco contributed to death. Tobacco use may contribute to deaths due to a wide variety of diseases; for example, 
tobacco use contributes to many deaths due to emphysema or lung cancer and some heart disease and cancers of the head and neck.  Check 
ÒNoÓ if, in your 
clinical judgment, tobacco use did not contribute to this particular death. 
ITEM 36 - IF FEMALE, WAS DECEDENT PREGNANT AT TIME OF DEATH OR WITHIN PAST YEAR? 
If the decedent is a female, check the appropriate box.  If the female is either too old or too young to be fecund, check the 
ÒNot pregnant within past year
Ó box. If the decedent is 
a male, leave the item blank. This information is important in determining pregnancy-related mortality. 
ITEM 37 - MANNER OF DEATH 
¥ Always check Manner of Death, which is important: 1) in determining accurate causes of death, 2) in processing insurance claims, and 3) in statistical studies of injuries and death. 
¥ Indicate ÒCould not be determined
Ó ONLY
 when it is impossible to determine the manner of death. 

˘

















(
(
(






REFERENCES For more information on how to complete the medical certification section of the death certificate, refer to tutorial at 
http://www.TheNAME.org
 and resources including instructions and handbooks available by request from NCHS, Room 7318, 3311 Toledo Road, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782 or at 
www.cdc.gov/nchs/about/major/dvs/handbk.htm. 

