To learn more or opt-out, read our Cookie Policy.
 Please also read our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use, which became effective December 20, 2019.
 By choosing I Accept, you consent to our use of cookies and other tracking technologies.
 You can help by supporting Vox's explanatory journalism with a financial contribution today.
 ×             Amazon Prime delivery delays are now as long as a month  The e-commerce giant is prioritizing household staples and other high-demand items during the coronavirus pandemic.
 By    Jason Del Rey@DelRey       Mar 22, 2020, 9:50pm EDT            Share this story     Share this on Facebook      Share this on Twitter         Share All sharing options       Share All sharing options for: Amazon Prime delivery delays are now as long as a month             Reddit        Pocket          Flipboard      Email                     An Amazon delivery man in Paris, France, on March 19, 2020.
 Getty Images     This story is part of a group of stories called        Uncovering and explaining how our digital world is changing — and changing us.
 Amazon announced earlier this week that it would start prioritizing the most in-demand essential items in its warehouses, as the e-commerce giant struggles to keep up with customer demand during the Covid-19 coronavirus pandemic.
 Now the other shoe has dropped.
 On Sunday, customers and Amazon merchants posted on social media platforms saying certain nonessential items were showing April 21 delivery dates, even though they were listed as in-stock and shipping with Amazon’s Prime express shipping service.
 During normal times, Amazon Prime deliveries typically arrive in one or two days in the US.
 Now, some Prime deliveries for in-stock items are showing five-day delivery promises on the lower end, but those waits are as long as a month on some items.
 An Amazon spokesperson confirmed to Recode on Sunday evening that the new April 21 delivery dates are not the result of a technical bug or error; they accurately reflect Amazon’s current reality.
 “To serve our customers in need while also helping to ensure the safety of our associates, we’ve changed our logistics, transportation, supply chain, purchasing, and third-party seller processes to prioritize stocking and delivering items that are a higher priority for our customers,” the spokesperson said in a statement.
 “This has resulted in some of our delivery promises being longer than usual.” The significant delivery delays showcase just how much shoppers are turning to online shopping during the global health crisis, and how even an online retailer as technologically advanced and powerful as Amazon can only do so much to handle such an unexpected, once-in-a-generation shopping rush.
 On Tuesday, Amazon acknowledged the challenges it was facing when it said it would only accept new stock in its warehouses through early April if it was in one of six essential products categories, such as health and household goods or medical supplies.
 The company also said it was looking to hire 100,000 new workers to help sort, package, and deliver goods for customers.
 The trade-off Amazon is making, for now, is that some items like printer ink and coffee makers — which don’t fall into the six different product categories Amazon is currently prioritizing as essential — are showing delivery delays unlike anything Amazon customers have experienced in recent memory.
 It’s unclear if Amazon will refund Prime membership fees — either partially or fully — if the delays continue.
 Amazon Prime costs $119 a year in the US and comes with other perks beyond express shipping like video and music streaming.
 One person complained that he tried to order cables that he’d “normally go to Guitar Center and grab,” but Amazon could only deliver them by April 21.
 That’s the same date Recode found when we looked up similar cables on Sunday night.
 For Amazon merchants who sell in categories outside of the ones Amazon currently deems essential, the delivery delays could be problematic.
 “This has to be the biggest disruption to Amazon’s operations since they started,” said Joe Kaziukenas, CEO of the e-commerce research firm Marketplace Pulse.
 “And, unfortunately, it will have a big impact on sellers and ultimately customers, too.” Sunday, Amazon sellers compared notes on Reddit message boards to try to figure out which items were showing delays and which weren’t.
 Some said their items were showing April 21 delivery dates even though they were goods in one of the six categories Amazon is currently prioritizing.
 Others said the same item was showing normal delivery times for some zip codes, but April 21 delivery for other zip codes.
 Either way, this is the current reality for Amazon customers and Amazon sellers alike: Five-day Prime delivery waits are the norm, and month-long waits are not uncommon.
 And it’s unclear how long it will last.
 Update, March 22, 2020, 11:15 pm ET: This story has been updated to include a statement from Amazon.
 Will you help keep Vox free for all?
 Millions of people rely on Vox to understand how the policy decisions made in Washington, from health care to unemployment to housing, could impact their lives.
 Our work is well-sourced, research-driven, and in-depth.
 And that kind of work takes resources.
 Even after the economy recovers, advertising alone will never be enough to support it.
 If you have already made a contribution to Vox, thank you.
 If you haven’t, help us keep our journalism free for everyone by making a financial contribution today, from as little as $3.
 In This Stream   Coronavirus pandemic: News and updates on new cases and its spread   98,000 new Covid-19 cases.
 And the worst may be yet to come.
 Amazon Prime delivery delays are now as long as a month   FEMA can’t say how many medical supplies the US has left to fight the coronavirus     View all 628 stories        Next Up on     Recode    Silicon Valley leaders celebrate the Biden win — and send a message to Trump   YouTube is awash with election misinformation — and it isn’t taking it down   The New York Times is thriving in chaos   Facebook took down a massive “Stop the Steal” group after its members called for violence   What’s really going on with the mail-in ballots the US Postal Service can’t trace    No, Joe Biden did not mysteriously gain 138,000 Michigan votes all at once                The Latest                                        Silicon Valley leaders celebrate the Biden win — and send a message to Trump The implicit message: Election results are in, and Biden won.
 YouTube is awash with election misinformation — and it isn’t taking it down Videos questioning the election results are racking up hundreds of thousands of views.
 Facebook took down a massive “Stop the Steal” group after its members called for violence Stop the Steal gained more than 350,000 members on Facebook in less than a day.
 What’s really going on with the mail-in ballots the US Postal Service can’t trace  The case of the supposed 300,000 missing mail-in ballots isn’t what it seems.
 The New York Times is thriving in chaos People spent the summer freaking out and subscribing to the paper of record.
 Subscribe                The Latest on Vox           GOP lawmakers are refusing to acknowledge the reality that Biden won the election          By    Katelyn Burns                   Alex Trebek’s last episode of Jeopardy will air on Christmas Day          By    Jen Trolio and Allegra Frank                   Jeopardy host Alex Trebek has died after 36 years of hosting the show          By    Libby Nelson                   Biden plans on swiftly rolling back Trump policies with a set of executive orders          By    Katelyn Burns                   The Trump legal team’s failed Four Seasons press conference, explained          By    Katelyn Burns                  Play     Can Trump steal the election?
 By    Laura Bult                      Chorus     Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status   Contact Send Us a Tip Masthead About Us Editorial Ethics and Guidelines    Vox MediaVox Media Vox Media logo.
 Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media      © 2020 Vox Media, LLC.
