This is Karie Manton and she is our facility “Jill ...of all trades”.
 She can repair or refurbish just about anything.
 Here she is taking a break from building Bob’s new habitat and sharing her lunch with the chickens.
 I decided she needed a name for her handy-woman business, and this is what happened when she gave me creative freedom.
 😆  Karie is a retired from maintenance and loves small jobs she can do herself, working for happy people.
 She loves Wild Heart and we are so grateful to have her help.
 💚  -Annette See moreWild Heart RanchToday at 07:48See videoWild Heart RanchToday at 03:00Good Morning Everyone!!!
 How to tell when you are social distancing ...when you are far enough away or to close.
 :-) Greg  Answers to yesterdays live feed questions; We had to give up on the snake.
 His wound was amputating instead of granulating, and it was too high up on his body for him to survive it.
 It was sad.
 I love snakes.
 :( The bobcat does not have a name.
 You are all more than welcome to name her.
 The 3 coots released.
 Fun fact; Coots get heavy in fall and struggle to walk on land.
 Put them on water and voila!
 They are perfect!
 Red shoulder hawk, head injury skunk and Great horned owl all released this week.
 The bobcat's cage is from Amazon.
 Great cages, but you have to fortify the tarp roof.
 This roof is not safe for cats or raccoons outside.
 We install grommets and use zip ties for inside use.
 Otters are fine!
 :) Lots of questions about a little raccoon I was brought 4 years ago.
 The old video posted on the Follower Forum.
 I had to go back and watch it to remember.
 (thousands of animals since then) He was a case of "too little too late", but his last few days he had care and food and love.
 Sometimes that's all we can do, and it angers me when I am helpless to help them because of the cruelty of humans.
 My niece has symptoms but we are managing well.
 We are all on D3, Zinc and C, taking temps and wearing N95 masks around the cabin area.
 I found a disinfectant bomb!
 Glad someone else thought of this!
 Its on the way!
 Will use it when she is over this.
 Since cats can catch Covid, we are leaving Bob (our elderly bobcat) in the predator enclosure for now, even though his cage rebuild is finished.
 (it's AWESOME!)
 His regular cage is right behind the cabin where my niece is and we aren't taking any chances.
 It was good timing to have him moved.
 Though he loves the predator enclosure, his cage has much better winter shelter for an old man, and I can see him from my house.
 It's safer for him (and I worry less).
 It's just me, Dan and Angela here.
 Terry is coming to help with projects but staying outside and away from us.
 We even have a "drop off wagon" at the gate for deliveries.
 We are zero contact, even though none of us are exposed to my niece at all.
 We have a great system in place and with very few people here, it is easy to control so there are no mistakes.
 Day 4!
 So far so good!
 You can review your cookie controls at any time.
 You have a number of choices using the tools described below.
 Some cookies are required in order to use Facebook.
 One of the ways Audience Network shows relevant ads is by using your ad preferences to determine which ads you may be interested in seeing.
 This helps us do things such as give you a more personalised experience on Facebook.
 As of 5 October 2020, you may find additional information about the controls offered by popular browsers at the links below.
 Certain parts of Facebook Products may not work properly if you have disabled browser cookies.
 The most relevant comments will appear first.
 The most relevant comments will appear first.
