2Ł If you are an asylum seeker getting 
 support from the Home Of˜ce (UK 
Government) they may ask you to 
 register with a particular GP surgery.
Ł If you are an asylum seeker Scottish 
Refugee Council or Asylum Help may be able to help you ˜nd a GP surgery where 
you can make an appointment to register. 
See page 4 for how to contact them.Ł You can also phone the NHS inform 
 Helpline on 0800 22 44 88 or look on the internet (www.nhs24.scot) to ˜nd a GP 
surgery that can register you. The NHS 
helpline can provide an interpreting service.  
Ł When you have found a GP surgery, 
 contact them and make an appointment  to register as an NHS patient. 
Ł If you need an interpreter, ask the GP 
surgery to arrange this for you. When 
 you make an appointment, tell them  what language you prefer to use.
Ł If you need dental treatment you must 
 ˜rst of all be registered with a GP as you 
 will be asked to provide your GP™s details 
 by the dental surgery. You should then ˜nd 
an NHS dentist that works for the NHS.  You can phone the NHS inform Helpline 
 on 0800 22 44 88 or look on the internet 
 (www.nhs24.scot) to ˜nd a dentist. 
Ł If you need eye care you need to ˜nd 
 an optician that provides NHS services. 
Most opticians who have shops in town centres provide NHS services. You can 
 also phone the NHS inform Helpline on 0800 22 44 88 if you are have dif˜culties 
˜nding a local optician.What happens when I  register as an NHS patient?
Ł When you go to the GP surgery, the staff 
 will ask you for some personal information  Œ for example, your name, address and 
 date of birth.Ł The staff will ask to see some documents 
 to help them decide if you can register as 
 an NHS patient. If you need hospital care, 
 staff at the hospital will also ask to see 
these documents. -  
If you are seeking asylum
,  NHS staff may ask you to show:
  
-  
your Application Registration Card (ARC) Œ you may have 
 been given this card at your 
asylum screening interview, or
  
-   
documents from the UK Border 
Agency saying that you have applied for asylum. -  If you are a refugee
, they may  ask you to show:   
-        your passport, travel documents, or Biometric Residence Permit  
-        a letter from the Home Of˜ce that 
says you are allowed to stay in the 
United Kingdom.Ł If you don™t have the documents they 
 ask for, staff at the GP surgery may not 
 be able to register you as an NHS patient 
right away.  
 3When I am registered as an NHS 
patient, is all health care free?
  If you are a refugee
 Ł Most of your NHS health care will be 
 free.
 But you may need to pay for some things like many people living in Scotland  Œ for example, some dental treatment or 
 eye care. 
Ł For more information about help with 
 health costs, see the lea˚et ‚A quick guide to help with health costs™ (HCS2). This lea˚et tells you if you can get free treatment 
or help with the costs. It is available from 
citizens advice bureaux and Jobcentre Plus 
of˜ces. You can also ˜nd it on the internet 
(www.gov.scot). 
 If you are seeking asylum and you get
 asylum support from the Home Of˜ce 
 (UK Government).
 Ł You won™t need to pay for your health care.
Ł The Home Of˜ce will give you an HC2 certi˜cate. This shows you don™t need to 
pay for some things Œ for example dental treatment or eye care. 
Ł You can also use your HC2 certi˜cate to 
get help with the cost of travelling to NHS hospital appointments. If you are seeking asylum and you don™t 
 get asylum support from the Home Of˜ce, 
or if you have been refused asylum.
 Ł A lot of your health care will be free.
Ł You will need to ˜ll in an HC1 form to apply 
for an HC2 certi˜cate. This shows you don™t 
need to pay for some things  Œ for example dental treatment and eye care. 
Ł You can get an HC1 form from a Jobcentre 
Plus of˜ce, an NHS hospital, or by phoning 0845 850 1166.Ł You can also use your HC2 certi˜cate to 
get help with the cost of travelling to NHS hospital appointments.Can my family get health  care from the NHS?
Ł If you are registered as an NHS patient, 
 your husband, wife or civil partner, and 
any of your children who live in Scotland 
with you, can also get health care from 
the NHS. The children must be aged under 
16, or under 19 and in full-time education. Staff at the GP surgery will ask you to 
complete a form for your husband, wife or civil partner and for any children. You 
may need to show your marriage or civil partnership certi˜cate, and birth certi˜cates for your children. 
Ł Any other members of your family may  be able to get health care from the NHS, 
 but they will need to prove that they have 
their own right to NHS care.
What happens if I am not registered 
as an NHS patient?Ł If you are not registered as an NHS 
 patient, you can still get some health  care from the NHS. 
Services that are free for everyone include:
Ł emergency care in a hospital (in the 
accident and emergency department, 
casualty department or minor injury unit)Ł emergency care at a GP surgery
Ł emergency transport in an ambulance
Ł sexual health services (family planning)Ł treatment for some infectious diseases and 
sexually transmitted infections in the best interests of the public 
 4How can I ˜nd out more?
Ł Contact Scottish Refugee Council:  phone 0141 248 9799, email  info@scottishrefugeecouncil.org.uk 
 or look on the internet 
 (www.scottishrefugeecouncil.co.uk).
Ł Phone Asylum Help on 0808 8000 630 or look on the internet (asylumhelpuk.org).
Ł Phone the UK Visas & Immigration 
Agency on 0141 555 1200 or look on the internet (www.gov.uk/government/
organisations/uk-visas-and-immigration).
Ł For information about health conditions  and services, phone the NHS inform Helpline on 0800 22 44 88 (textphone  18001 0800 22 44 88; the helpline also provides an interpreting service). The 
helpline is open every day between 8am and 10pm.Ł Contact the Patient Advice & Support Service (PASS)
 at your local citizen™s 
advice bureau (˜nd your nearest bureau on 
the internet at www.cas.org.uk or in your 
local phone book). PASS is independent 
and provides free, con˜dential information, 
advice and support to anyone who uses the NHS in Scotland.Other factsheets in this seriesŁ Health care for people coming to 
 Scotland to workŁ Health care for people coming to 
 Scotland to studyŁ Health care in Scotland for former 
 UK residents now working abroad
Ł Health care in Scotland for UK passport 
holders living abroad
Ł Health care for UK pensioners visiting 
ScotlandŁ Health care in Scotland for holidaymakers 
from overseas.
You can get these factsheets from:
Ł anywhere you get NHS care
Ł www.nhsinform.scot
Ł the NHS inform Helpline on 0800 22 44 88.Feeling unwell?Ł Go to a pharmacy and ask for advice.  To ˜nd your nearest pharmacy, phone the 
NHS inform Helpline on 0800 22 44 88 or look on the internet (www.nhs24.scot).  
Ł Visit the NHS 24 website
 at  www.nhs24.scot for health information 
 and advice. Ł Contact the GP surgery where you are 
registered. If you need an interpreter, ask 
the GP surgery to arrange this for you.
Ł Phone NHS 24 on 111 or look on the internet (www.nhs24.scot) if the GP surgery 
where you are registered is closed, or if you 
are not yet registered as an NHS patient. 
NHS 24 can provide an interpreting service.
 In an emergency (if your condition  is very serious), phone 999 and ask   
for an ambulance.We have tried our best to make sure that 
this information is correct. However, the 
information is for guidance only so you should not rely on it as a full statement of the law. 
 If you are thinking about taking legal action, 
you should contact a solicitor, a citizens advice 
bureau, or other advice agency.
Check www.nhsinform.scot
 for versions of this information in other languages or formats.Produced by NHS inform
