Home    News     Main 
 			Categories   Top 
 			News   Nation   States   Washington/Politics   World   Editorial/Opinion   Health 
 			&amp; Science   Census   Offbeat   More 
 			News   Columnists   Lotteries   City 
 			Guides   Government Guide   Talk 
   Today    Money   Sports   Life   Tech   Weather                      Site Web                           
   Click here to get the Daily Briefing in your inbox                                              06/05/2001 - Updated 11:01 PM ET
 																	                          'Abstinence only' funding may rise By Steve Sternberg, USA TODAY  WASHINGTON — Asserting "we must remain on the offensive 
  in the war against HIV and AIDS," Secretary of Health and Human Services Tommy 
  Thompson said Tuesday that the administration may seek additional funds for 
  controversial "abstinence only" sex education programs.
 Thompson, interviewed at a forum titled "U.S AIDS Policy: 
  Entering the Third Decade," offered no specifics.
 Aides say, however, that he 
  is considering asking Congress to boost funding for the programs, which prohibit 
  participating schools from advising teens who reject abstinence on ways to protect 
  themselves from pregnancy, AIDS and other venereal diseases.
 "There's an effort to reach parity between abstinence-only 
  education programs and family-planning programs," says Tony Jewell, a spokesman 
  for the secretary.
 Proponents of "abstinence only" sex education include former 
  Secretary of Education William Bennett and many other social conservatives.
 In March, Florida Gov.
 Jeb Bush, the president's brother, proposed supplying 
  that state's abstinence-only programs with $1 million in state funds.
 Most public health experts oppose abstinence programs, 
  saying they fail to take into account an important fact of adolescent life — 
  many teens lack the willpower or desire to just say no.
 "There are no scientific studies supporting abstinence-only 
  education as an effective prevention tool," says Terje Anderson, executive director 
  of the National Association of People with AIDS.
 "Young people need realistic 
  information about how to protect themselves."
 Thompson also said the administration has no plans to change 
  the government's position barring federal funding for programs that supply drug 
  abusers with clean hypodermic needles in exchange for used ones.
 That stance was initially adopted by the Clinton administration, 
  despite an outcry from health experts who assert that numerous studies indicate 
  that needle-exchange programs prevent the spread of AIDS without encouraging 
  drug abuse.
 In his prepared remarks, Thompson noted that the Bush administration 
  has proposed increasing the federal health department's funding of AIDS prevention, 
  research and treatment to $10.2 billion, a 7.2% increase over last year.
 The 
  budget also seeks $357 million for AIDS vaccine research, a 27% increase over 
  last year.
 "Make no mistake, this administration is making substantial financial 
  investments in the battle against AIDS," he said.
 Thompson made no mention, however, of the administration's 
  decision not to ask Congress to increase funding for the Ryan White AIDS Care 
  Act, which helps poor people obtain treatment.
 For each of the past eight years, 
  the program's funding has increased by 15% to keep pace with the 40,000 new 
  cases diagnosed annually.
 Meanwhile, Sen. Bill Frist, R-Tenn., said that he will 
  soon introduce a bill that would supply the $200 million that President Bush 
  proposed for the Global AIDS Fund, to be used to help developing nations fight 
  AIDS.
 The forum was sponsored by the Kaiser Family Foundation 
  and the Ford Foundation.
