suck poison from a snake bite             The villain in the play dies by drinking a vial of poison.
 Poverty is a poison to society.
 Verb            How did the murderer poison the victim?
 Hundreds were poisoned from drinking the contaminated water.
 He was poisoned with cyanide.
 The factory poisoned the air with its fumes.
 Illegal dumping of waste is poisoning the stream and killing fish.
 He poisoned their minds with hatred for her.
 His angry outburst poisoned the atmosphere of the party.
 —   	    Kevin Baker, Harper's Magazine, "You Say You Want a Revolution," 27 Oct. 2020  	 There's even some aged poison for defenses out there: a couple of forty-something quarterbacks named Brady and Brees who tore apart the Chargers and Lions, respectively.
 —   	    Barry Wilner, Star Tribune, "Analysis: Let's light up those million-dollar scoreboards," 5 Oct. 2020  	 Rat poison is a common threat to any predator that feeds on mice and rats, Mitchell said, including owls, bobcats and mountain lions.
 —   	    Shaena Montanari, The Arizona Republic, "How 2 orphan baby mountain lions from California found a home in Scottsdale," 3 Oct. 2020  	 The nerve agent used in the attack was the same class of Soviet-era poison that Britain said was used on former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Salisbury, England, in 2018.
 —   	    David Rising And Daria Litvinova, chicagotribune.com, "Alexei Navalny released from German hospital after 32 days, following treatment for poisoning," 23 Sep. 2020  	 The poison is toxic to people, and trace amounts can be fatal if consumed, injected, or inhaled.
 —   	    Anna Giaritelli, Washington Examiner, "Woman accused of sending ricin to Trump linked to Texas sheriff who also received substance," 21 Sep. 2020  	 The nerve agent used in the attack was the same class of poison that Britain said was used on former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Salisbury, England, in 2018.
 —   	Fox News, "Russia's Navalny accuses Putin of being behind poisoning," 21 Sep. 2020  	 For years, poison has been the weapon of choice used to condemn those seen as traitors of the Russian state to a long, painful and in some cases public death.
 —   	    Ann M. Simmons And Thomas Grove, WSJ, "In Novichok Poisoning of Alexei Navalny, Some See a Kremlin Calling Card," 3 Sep. 2020  	 The dissident's supporters suggested that was just a ploy to delay his departure until the poison was out of his system.
 —   	    David Rising, Star Tribune, "Comatose Russian dissident visited by wife, aide in Germany," 23 Aug. 2020  	 Recent Examples on the Web: Verb The absence of humility, Danforth said, can poison any chance for a collaborative culture.
 —   	    Mark Leibovich, Star Tribune, "Trump's illness is a lesson in humility for a man, and an era, that needs it," 5 Oct. 2020  	 The absence of humility, Mr. Danforth said, can poison any chance for a collaborative culture.
 —   	    Mark Leibovich, New York Times, "The Untraveled High Road of Humility, and a President Laid Low," 4 Oct. 2020  	 Failure to reach one could poison relations between the two sides for years to come.
 —   	    Ian Wishart, Bloomberg.com, "Brexit Enters Its Endgame With a Defining Call for Boris Johnson," 2 Oct. 2020  	 And never try to poison a snake with mothballs or other chemicals.
 —   	    René A. Guzman, ExpressNews.com, "Checkered garter snake a gentle, gorgeous snake that’s common in San Antonio," 30 Sep. 2020  	 Wang had previously been caught trying to poison her husband, surnamed Feng, in February 2017 after an argument.
 —   	    Ben Westcott, CNN, "Chinese kindergarten teacher sentenced to death for poisoning 25 students with nitrite-laced porridge," 29 Sep. 2020  	 Lead from the bullets used to kill game can can poison birds that scavenge the carcasses.
 —   	    Shaena Montanari, The Arizona Republic, "California condors will be released into the wild in Arizona soon.
 Here's how to watch," 23 Sep. 2020  	 The German government said last week that laboratories in Sweden and France also confirmed that Novichok was used to poison Navalny.
 —   	NBC News, "Poisoned Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny discharged from hospital, doctors say complete recovery possible," 23 Sep. 2020  	 The confirmation fight itself is likely to further poison the atmosphere surrounding the court.
 —   	    Greg Stohr, Bloomberg.com, "Trump Rush to Fill Seat Draws Supreme Court Into Political Mire," 20 Sep. 2020  	 Recent Examples on the Web: Adjective Behavior and reproduction Most frogs are nocturnal, but not poison frogs.
 —   	National Geographic, "Dyeing poison frog," 28 Feb. 2020  	 Some farmers even intentionally poison cranes to stop them from foraging in their crops.
 —   	National Geographic, "Gray crowned crane," 10 Feb. 2020  	 Field biologist Andrius Pašukonis, who researches poison frog homing behavior in the wild and was not involved in this study, is excited about the results and hopes to see more work done on these and other species.
 —   	    Geetha Iyer, National Geographic, "This surprisingly smart frog makes maps in its mind," 25 July 2019  	 Ken said, battling through the foliage before realizing most of it was poison ivy.
 Views expressed in the examples do not represent the opinion of Merriam-Webster or its editors.
 Send us feedback.
 Statistics for poison Last Updated 7 Nov 2020 Look-up Popularity Cite this Entry “Poison.” Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/poison.
 Accessed 7 Nov. 2020.
 MLA Chicago APA Merriam-Webster Keep scrolling for more  More Definitions for poison poison noun English Language Learners Definition of poison (Entry 1 of 2) : a substance that can cause people or animals to die or to become very sick if it gets into their bodies especially by being swallowed : something (such as an idea, emotion, or situation) that is very harmful or unpleasant poison verb English Language Learners Definition of poison (Entry 2 of 2) : to cause (a person or animal) to die or to become very sick with poison : to put a harmful or deadly substance in or on (something) : to change (something) in a very harmful or unpleasant way See the full definition for poison in the English Language Learners Dictionary poison noun poi·​son | \ ˈpȯi-zᵊn \ Kids Definition of poison (Entry 1 of 2) : a substance that by its chemical action can injure or kill a living thing poison verb poisoned; poisoning Kids Definition of poison (Entry 2 of 2) 1 : to injure or kill with poison 2 : to put poison on or in poison noun poi·​son | \ ˈpȯiz-ᵊn \ Medical Definition of poison (Entry 1 of 3) 1 : a substance that through its chemical action usually kills, injures, or impairs an organism 2 : a substance that inhibits the activity of another substance or the course of a reaction or process                    a catalyst poison poison transitive verb poisoned; poisoning\ ˈpȯiz-​niŋ, -​ᵊn-​iŋ  \ Medical Definition of poison (Entry 2 of 3) 1 : to injure or kill with poison 2 : to treat, taint, or impregnate with poison poison adjective Medical Definition of poison (Entry 3 of 3) 1 : poisonous a poison plant 2 : impregnated with poison                    a poison arrow Keep scrolling for more More from Merriam-Webster on poison Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for poison Nglish: Translation of poison for Spanish Speakers Britannica English: Translation of poison for Arabic Speakers Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about poison Comments on poison What made you want to look up poison?
 Please tell us where you read or heard it (including the quote, if possible).
 Show Comments  Hide Comments  WORD OF THE DAY multifarious See Definitions and Examples »  Get Word of the Day daily email!
 Test Your Vocabulary Where in the World?
 A Quiz What language does pajama come from?
 Hindi &amp; Urdu ArabicCherokee Nguni Can you spell these 10 commonly misspelled words?
 TAKE THE QUIZ Test Your Knowledge - and learn some interesting things along the way.
 TAKE THE QUIZ Love words?
 Need even more definitions?
 Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free!
 Merriam-Webster unabridged Words at Play The Words of the Week - 11/6/20 Words from the week of 11/6/2020 'Internecine': A History A mistake that stuck The 'Moat' Surrounding Entertainment The Medieval 'Moat' Comeback Tour Is It ‘Based on’ or ‘Based off’?
 'Based on' is more popular.
 Ask the Editors 'All Intensive Purposes' or 'All Intents and Purposes'?
 We're intent on clearing it up 'Nip it in the butt' or 'Nip it in the bud'?
 We're gonna stop you right there Literally How to use a word that (literally) drives some pe... Is Singular 'They' a Better Choice?
 The awkward case of 'his or her' Word Games Where in the World?
 A Quiz Do you know what languages these words come from?
 Take the quiz Here Be Dragons: A Creature Identification Quiz Director's Cut!
 Take the quiz Spell It Can you spell these 10 commonly misspelled words?
 Take the quiz Dictionary Devil The dictionary has been scrambled—can you put i...
 Delivered to your inbox!
 OTHER MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARIES LEARNER'S ESL DICTIONARY VISUAL DICTIONARY SCRABBLE® WORD FINDER MERRIAM-WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY BRITANNICA ENGLISH - ARABIC TRANSLATION NGLISH - SPANISH-ENGLISH TRANSLATION FOLLOW US Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Browse the Dictionary: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 0-9 Home Help Apps About Us Shop Advertising Info Dictionary API Contact Us Join MWU Video Word of the Year Puku Vocabulary Resources Law Dictionary Medical Dictionary Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell My Info Browse the Thesaurus Browse the Medical Dictionary Browse the Legal Dictionary © 2020 Merriam-Webster, Incorporated Learn More from M-W Time Traveler Learn More from M-W Learn on the go with our Dictionary and Thesaurus Learn More from M-W Set your young readers up for lifelong success Learn More from M-W Listen to our new podcast!
 Learn More from M-W 'All Intensive Purposes' or 'All Intents and Purposes'?
