Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search        × Search NCHS  Search NCHS All CDC    Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                 National Center for Health Statistics            Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                         STATCAST - Week of September 9, 2019STATCAST - Week of September 9, 2019     Minus     Related Pages     NCHS Releases New Monthly Provisional Estimates on Drug Overdose DeathsYour browser does not support the audio element.
 play    stop    skip-backward    skip-forward    volume    Volume Range Slider     Scrub Range Slider   Transcript »pdf iconJavaScript is required to play this audio.
 The audio file can be found atNCHS Releases New Monthly Provisional Estimates on Drug Overdose Deathsmedia icon.TRANSCRIPT On September 11, NCHS released its monthly provisional estimates on drug overdose deaths in the country.
 The latest release covers the one year period ending in February 2019, and shows that there was an estimated 2.9% decline in the total number of overdose deaths in the U.S. from a year ago.
 An estimated 69,029 people died of a drug overdose during this period.
 Nearly 7 out of 10 of these overdose deaths were due to opioids.
 Nearly half of all overdose deaths, or 47%, were due to fentanyl or other synthetic opioids besides methadone.
 More than 1 in 5 of all overdose deaths, or 22%, were due to heroin.
 More than 1 in 5 of all overdose deaths, or 23%, were due to cocaine.
 An estimated 1 in 5 of all overdose deaths were due to methamphetamine or other psychostimulants with abuse potential.
 Over 770,000 Americans have died from drug overdoses since 1999, and the total number of deaths jumped from 16,849 in 1999 to a high mark of 70,237 in 2017.
 Though data for 2018 are not final yet, NCHS estimates that 2018 marked the first decline in drug overdose deaths in several decades.
 For the past several years, West Virginia has had the highest death rate from drug overdoses of any state, with a rate of nearly 58 overdose deaths per 100,000 population in 2017.
 Page last reviewed: September 11, 2019 Content source: 	CDC/National Center for Health Statistics          home NCHS Pressroom   2020 Schedule Upcoming Releases Publications Archives QuickStats Archives Stats of the States Most Recent Data on Health Topics Statcasts Videos Press Release Archives Join NCHS Media List     Related Sites   Health Statistics Blog CDC Online Newsroom FastStats NCHS Publications and Products             HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
