Ammunition to be delivered to 41 locations across U.S.Paul Joseph Watson Infowars.com Wednesday, August 15, 2012UPDATE: DHS Now Covering Up Ammo Purchases?
 A solicitation posted by the SSA on the FedBizOpps website asks for contractors to supply 174,000 rounds of “.357 Sig 125 grain bonded jacketed hollow point pistol ammunition.” An online ammunition retailer describes the bullets as suitable “for peak performance rivaling and sometimes surpassing handloads in many guns,” noting that the ammo is “a great personal defense bullet.” The synopsis to the solicitation adds that the ammunition is to be shipped to 41 locations within 60 days of purchase.
 A separate spreadsheet lists those locations, which include the Social Security headquarters in Baltimore, Maryland as well as major cities across the country including Los Angeles, Detroit, Oklahoma City, Dallas, Houston, Atlanta, Denver, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Seattle.
 Hollow point bullets are designed to expand as they enter the body, causing maximum damage by tearing apart internal organs.
 It’s not outlandish to suggest that the Social Security Administration is purchasing the bullets as part of preparations for civil unrest.
 Social security welfare is estimated to keep around 40 per cent of senior citizens out of poverty.
 Should the tap run dry in the aftermath of an economic collapse which the Federal Reserve has already told top banks to prepare for, domestic disorder could ensue if people are refused their benefits.
 Indeed, earlier this year the Department of Homeland Security ran a drill called Operation Shield which included turning the entrance of a Florida Social Security office into a checkpoint manned by Federal Protective Service officers armed with semiautomatic rifles.
 “With their blue and white SUVs circled around the Main Street office, at least one official was posted on the door with a semiautomatic rifle, randomly checking identifications.
 And other officers, some with K-9s, sifted through the building,” reported the Daily Commercial.
 A rash of solicitations by federal agencies for hollow point bullets in recent months has stoked fears that the government is preparing for civil unrest caused by a financial collapse on a scale similar or even larger to scenes already witnessed in Europe over the last two years.
 As we reported yesterday, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has put out a contract for 46,000 rounds of hollow point bullets along with 500 paper targets.
 Despite initially asking the bullets to be delivered to the National Weather Service, NOAA claimed this was a “clerical error” and insisted the ammunition was being sent to the Fisheries Office of Law Enforcement.
 Why powerful hollow point bullets that are designed to tear apart internal organs are needed for practice shooting at paper targets has not been explained.
 Back in March, Homeland Security purchased 450 million rounds of .40-caliber hollow point bullets that are designed to expand upon entry and cause maximum organ damage, prompting questions as to why the DHS needed such a large amount of powerful bullets merely for training purposes.
 This was followed by another DHS solicitation asking for a further 750 million rounds of assorted bullets, including 357 mag rounds that are able to penetrate walls.
 The DHS recently put out an order for riot gear in preparation for the upcoming DNC, RNC and presidential inauguration.
 The U.S. Army is also busy buying similar equipment.
 The DHS also recently purchased a number of bullet-proof checkpoint booths that include ‘stop and go’ lights.
 ********************* Paul Joseph Watson is the editor and writer for Prison Planet.com.
 He is the author of Order Out Of Chaos.
 Watson is also a regular fill-in host for The Alex Jones Show and Infowars Nightly News.
 The Emergency Election Sale is now live!
 Get 30% to 60% off our most popular products today!
 Your signup request has been sent.
 Please check your email to confirm.
 Your signup request has been sent.
 Please check your email to confirm.
 a false positive.
 a setup against him.
 a setup by him.
 View Results               
  					© 2020 Infowars.com is a Free Speech Systems, LLC Company.
 All rights reserved.
 Digital Millennium Copyright Act Notice.
 Radio Video NewsWars PPTV Banned.Video Store Infowars Life T.O.S.
 Archive Advertise Watch Alex Jones Show Most Recent D.M.C.A.
 Corrections    About Alex Jones Show Subscribe Contact      
  					© 2020 Infowars.com is a Free Speech Systems, LLC Company.
 All rights reserved.
 Digital Millennium Copyright Act Notice.
