You can find more information in our data protection declaration.
 More info OK      Inhalt Navigation Weitere Inhalte Metanavigation Suche Choose from 30 Languages           Albanian Shqip   Amharic አማርኛ   Arabic العربية   Bengali বাংলা   Bosnian B/H/S   Bulgarian Български    Chinese (Simplified) 简    Chinese (Traditional) 繁     Croatian Hrvatski   Dari دری    English English   French Français   German Deutsch   Greek Ελληνικά   Hausa Hausa   Hindi हिन्दी     Indonesian Indonesia   Kiswahili Kiswahili   Macedonian Македонски   Pashto پښتو   Persian فارسی   Polish Polski   Portuguese Português para África   Portuguese Português do Brasil     Romanian Română   Russian Русский   Serbian Српски/Srpski   Spanish Español   Turkish Türkçe   Ukrainian Українська   Urdu اردو             Wrong language?
 Change it here  DW.COM has chosen English as your language setting.
 DW.COM in 30 languages  DW AKADEMIE  ABOUT DW  DW.COM          Deutsche Welle                   TOP STORIES   Germany  Berlin Wall    Coronavirus  World  Europe    Africa  Crime Fighters  The 77 Percent  Africa on the Move    Asia  Americas  Middle East    Business  Founders Valley  Wo+men  My 2030    Science    Environment  Global Ideas  DoingYourBit    Eco Africa  Living Planet    Culture  Film  Books    Music    Arts    Digital Culture  Lifestyle  Travel    BTHVN2020    Sports      SPECIAL  100 Must-Reads 50 kitchens, one city Baking Bread DW Freedom Expedition Humboldt Gutenberg in the Cyberstorm Meet the Germans Planet Berlin The Migration Dilemma      Media Center    Live TV   All media content   Latest Programs   Podcasts      TV   Schedule and Reception    TV Programs    TV programs  Arts.21 Arts and Culture Business Check-in Close up Conflict Zone DocFilm DW News Eco Africa   Eco India Euromaxx Faith Matters Focus on Europe Global 3000 In Good Shape Kick off!
 Made in Germany Reporter   REV Shift Sports Life The Day The 77 Percent Tomorrow Today To the Point World Stories      RADIO   LEARN GERMAN    German Courses  German Courses Quick start    Harry    Deutsch Interaktiv  Radio D    Mission Europe    Deutsch - warum nicht?
 Audiotrainer    Deutschtrainer  Die Bienenretter     German XXL  German XXL Deutsch Aktuell  Deutsch im Fokus  Telenovela  Bandtagebuch  Landeskunde     Community D  Community D Das Porträt  Podcasts &amp; Newsletter  Service     Teaching German  Teaching German DW im Unterricht  Unterrichtsreihen  Deutschlehrer-Info         Germany Coronavirus World Business Science Environment Culture Sports      TOP STORIES  /  Business          Advertisement         Business German unemployment rises slightly The number of people out of work in Germany rose in July, ending nine consecutive months of falls.
 Still, the jobless rate remains at its lowest level since German reunification in 1990.
 There were roughly 2.8 million people registered as unemployed in July, the German Federal Labor Agency said on Thursday.
 The new figures marked an uptick of 61,000 over the previous month, but compared to one year ago there were 99,000 fewer people without a job.
 The latest data put the jobless rate at 6.3 percent, up from 6.2 percent in June.
 Graduating students signing on for benefits and trainees seeking jobs were the reason behind the rise in unemployment, said Frank-Juergen Weise, head of the Federal Labor Agency.
 "Overall, the labour market is in good shape," Weise said.
 DW recommends  German companies want to hire Europe's young unemployed There are more than 5 million unemployed young people in the EU.
 German companies have launched an initiative to change that.
 And with good reason, reports DW's Sabine Kinkartz.
 (22.07.2015)  Training, jobs for refugees, urges industry German industrialists have again called for the faster inclusion of asylum-seekers into training and jobs in Germany.
 Their appeal precedes a meeting next Thursday of federal and regional officials to review refugee policy.
 (15.06.2015)  French unemployment rising to record high The jobless rate in France jumped to a fresh record high in April, in a blow to President Francois Hollande, who has pledged not to seek a second term in office if he fails to reverse the increase in unemployment.
 (01.06.2015)  Seasonally adjusted unemployment rose by 9,000 in July, whereas economists surveyed by the news agency dpa-AFX had expected the number to fall by 5,000.
 The July increase brought to an end nine consecutive monthly falls.
 Refugees "a challenge," not a burden Some analysts expect the recent boom in the German labor market to weaken in the months ahead.
 "It will continue to get better, but more slowly," said Michael Holstein, an economist at DZ-Bank.
 Other economists expect a slight rise in unemployment in the course of this year, but most see stagnating unemployment figures.
 The growing influx of refugees in Germany poses "no doubt a challenge," said labor office head Weise, but he added that it would not overburden the German labor market.
 In its outlook for 2015, the Labor Agency expects an average of 2.79 million unemployed, improvement of 100,000 compared to previous outlooks, according to Weise.
 Germany's labor market contrasts starkly with those in some southern European countries.
 In Greece and Spain, for instance, unemployment rates have been hovering well over 20 percent for years.
 Even in neighboring France, where new figures were published this week, the unemployment rate is about twice as high as in Germany.
 bea/cjc (dpa, AP)             Date 30.07.2015    Related Subjects Germany, Labor Market   Keywords unemployment, Germany, jobs, labor market  Send us your feedback.
 Print Print this page   Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1G7KT         Advertisement           Coronavirus: Sweden keeps its laid-back COVID-19 strategy      Despite rising infection rates, Sweden is sticking to its relatively relaxed approach to managing the coronavirus pandemic.
 But not everyone in the country is pleased with this tactic.
 UK bars travelers from Denmark over coronavirus mink outbreak      All non-residents coming from Denmark will no longer be allowed into the UK, the government announced.
 Denmark ordered a nationwide mink cull after a mutated version of the coronavirus was transmitted to humans.
 Opinion: The pre-Trump world won't come back      Ivan Krastev of the Centre for Liberal Strategies believes Europe can glean many warnings about its political future from this week's dramatic events in the US.
 TOP STORIES  Germany Coronavirus World Business Science Environment Culture Sports   A - Z Index   MEDIA CENTER  Live TV All media content Latest Programs Podcasts   TV  Schedule and Reception TV Programs   RADIO    LEARN GERMAN  German Courses German XXL Community D Teaching German   ABOUT DW  Who we are Press GMF Business &amp; Sales Advertising Travel   SERVICE  Reception Apps &amp; Co. Newsletters &amp; Co. FAQ Contact   DW AKADEMIE  About us Media Development Master's Degree Traineeship Training   © 2020 Deutsche Welle | Privacy Policy | Legal notice | Contact | Mobile version
