He drives a 2005 Camry.
 It’s not wrecked, just old and fading paint.
 He never has to meet anyone that they would ever see the car.
 It’s literally just another car in the garage.
 He drives a 2005 Camry.
 It’s not wrecked, just old and fading paint.
 He never has to meet anyone that they would ever see the car.
 It’s literally just another car in the garage.
 If they were giving him a couple hundred or thousand a month to pay for a new vehicle/lease and he's not using that they would have a valid reason to complain.level 26.2k points · 9 months agoFor real.OP should see this as a huge opportunity.Here's how to respond:I'm terribly sorry.
 I hadn't realized that my personal vehicle was of concern to the company.
 Of course I'll be happy to make an upgrade, and it's very generous of you to offer.
 Let me know if you'd prefer for me to purchase it personally and then file for reimbursement, or to purchase it with a company card.Basically, if this is something they expect of the employee, they need to pay for it.
 If not, make them explain that in painstaking detail, otherwise they'll just keep trying to pressure the person into paying for it themself without explicitly saying so.Continue this thread level 2177 points · 9 months agoDon't you understand?
 Hes poor, he might steeeeeaaal(/s)Continue this thread level 2155 points · 9 months agoeven if he did get a vehicle allowance, no where does it say that you have to buy a better vehicle with that money.
 Its money to pay for wear and tear, gas, and whatever matainance the vehicle you're driving may needContinue this thread level 27 points · 9 months agoHe very likely has a good case to sue for workplace discrimination.
 This situation literally infuriated me and I don’t even have a shitty car.
 The fucking nerve of some people.Continue this thread 46 more replieslevel 14.6k points · 9 months ago"[You appear to be in financial trouble because you don't squander all of your money on depreciating assets.]"
 Fucking idiots.level 21.6k points · 9 months agoI'm laughing because I am the VP Finance at my company and I drive a rusting 2007 accord.
 (Always needing the newest cars, clothes, and other frivolous expenses) These costs inherently lead to less wiggle room during emergencies.
 When a family members gets sick and you still have insane payments on a fancy home, car, etc.
 then you quickly run out of money and thus become more liable to commit fraud etc.TL;DR - That materialistic HR rep doesn’t know what the fuck he’s talking about.level 25.1k points · 9 months ago3That's exactly what I'd send back.. "on the contrary, I feel that my vehicle shows I make wise financial decision since a new vehicle is a terrible investment, but surely someone such as yourself already knows this.
 Thank you for understanding my decision to be financially responsible.
 "Continue this thread level 2Comment deleted by user9 months agoContinue this thread level 2523 points · 9 months agoI've found a lot of HR reps are totally clueless about personal finance.
 They can barely explain your investment options in the retirement package.I tried to ask ours about the new tax withholding form W4 and she didn't even know it had been changed.
 She was blown away that I was trying to avoid getting a tax return at the end of the year.
 "But don't you want your tax return??
 "Continue this thread level 21.1k points · 9 months ago · edited 9 months ago3Are you guys actually not even going to address the fact that it’s NONE OF HRs FUCKING BUSINESS what the fuck anyone drives or their god damn personal finances???
 This has me fuming.
 Credit check is one thing but to insist on how you spend your money?
 You could spend all your money on hookers and alcohol for all anyone knows, Financials have absolutely nothing to do w the performance of your job.
 If anything, you would think poor financials would trap you in a shit job.
 this to me seems like straight up harassment.
 No way can this be legal.
 I’ll tell you what I would do.
 Quit that job but like quit in a way where I walk right in to that persons office and throw a cup of piss on them.
 This is absolutely just as degrading.Edit: Holy crap!
 Thank you all for the upvotes and silvers.
 Greatly appreciated.And for those who say this should be legal and acceptable, what is wrong w you?
 We live in such a society now that is viewed through paper rather than judge a persons character in person...Our individualism is being stripped away from us in an attempt to conform us to a certain standard... have you ever asked yourself why?
 Why the categorization?
 Does this really make a person more predictable (ie: a low credit score equals theft.)
 In a world where we are trying to eliminate stereotypes y’all are defending a company’s “right” to infringe upon someone’s personal choice.
 I think you need to re-evaluate what you actually stand for.View Entire Discussion (5.6k Comments)More posts from the trashy communityContinue browsing in r/trashyr/trashyTrashy stories, trashy glamour, all things fake, plastic, and downright trashy, low-class, no-class, white trash, bimbos, and damn proud.2.2mMembers14.6kOnlineCreated Jun 14, 2012JoinhelpReddit AppReddit coinsReddit premiumReddit giftsaboutcareerspressadvertiseblogTermsContent policyPrivacy policyMod policyReddit Inc © 2020.
 By using our Services or clicking I agree, you agree to our use of cookies.
 If they were giving him a couple hundred or thousand a month to pay for a new vehicle/lease and he's not using that they would have a valid reason to complain.
 I hadn't realized that my personal vehicle was of concern to the company.
 Of course I'll be happy to make an upgrade, and it's very generous of you to offer.
 Let me know if you'd prefer for me to purchase it personally and then file for reimbursement, or to purchase it with a company card.
 If not, make them explain that in painstaking detail, otherwise they'll just keep trying to pressure the person into paying for it themself without explicitly saying so.
 This situation literally infuriated me and I don’t even have a shitty car.
 The fucking nerve of some people.
 ]\" Fucking idiots.
 Almost all of my colleagues drive nicer cars than me, and I'm 99% certain that I'm in better financial standing than they are.
 (Always needing the newest cars, clothes, and other frivolous expenses) These costs inherently lead to less wiggle room during emergencies.
 When a family members gets sick and you still have insane payments on a fancy home, car, etc.
 then you quickly run out of money and thus become more liable to commit fraud etc.
 They can barely explain your investment options in the retirement package.
 She was blown away that I was trying to avoid getting a tax return at the end of the year.
 \"But don't you want your tax return?
 This has me fuming.
 Credit check is one thing but to insist on how you spend your money?
 You could spend all your money on hookers and alcohol for all anyone knows, Financials have absolutely nothing to do w the performance of your job.
 If anything, you would think poor financials would trap you in a shit job.
 this to me seems like straight up harassment.
 No way can this be legal.
 I’ll tell you what I would do.
 Quit that job but like quit in a way where I walk right in to that persons office and throw a cup of piss on them.
 This is absolutely just as degrading.
 Thank you all for the upvotes and silvers.
 Greatly appreciated.
 We live in such a society now that is viewed through paper rather than judge a persons character in person...Our individualism is being stripped away from us in an attempt to conform us to a certain standard... have you ever asked yourself why?
 Why the categorization?
 Does this really make a person more predictable (ie: a low credit score equals theft.)
 In a world where we are trying to eliminate stereotypes y’all are defending a company’s “right” to infringe upon someone’s personal choice.
 I think you need to re-evaluate what you actually stand for.
 Hes always lived below his means and I never understood why.
 His car was clearly dying on him so he contacted my wife (works for a dealer) told her what he was looking for she found something in his price range...
 It suddenly clicked why my dad was so cheap growing up when he paid the 21k in cash.
 They also drove into another neighborhood to go to the discount grocery store rather than the big chain grocer in their neighborhood.
 I always said that's how they maintain their wealth!
 They pinched pennies whenever they could.
 I think it's pretty smart!
 They would look as if they were mismatching clothing from the thrift store but when I'd open their account information, they had millions.
 This post is really bothersome.
 I feel bad for OP's friend.
 My dad has been driving the same Toyota landcruiser since he bought it in 78.
 Made decent money, but never bought a new car because he never needed one.
 Just kept it running and presentable.
 The pressure of keeping up appearances/living beyond your means is one of the biggest drivers of fraud.
 I had started my career two months prior to buying a car where the payments were over $600/month (Canadian) and I had 84 months.
 I just fucking paid it off a couple of months ago.
 It limited my ability to do all sorts of things for years.
 Seven damn years of high car payments.
 He is one of the first individuals to sign the giving pledge.
 When he travels he flies economy until recently, due to age, started flying business.
 He stays in regular hotels during his travels.
 Until a few years ago, he used to get around in a Corolla.
 I can literally afford to buy a brand new BMW and pay 100% cash for it on the spot right now, but I’d rather keep my money invested.
 I want to retire early.
 its beyond illegal to ask for that information.
 My wife's brothers both easily make over 100k each, and one drives a late 90s lexus, and the other drives an early 2000s civic.
 The cars do look beat up, but they dont care aslong as it works.
 They're not materialistic by any means.
 Sure, I could get a $50k car but why?
 There's absolutely nothing wrong with having a beater commuter car.
 It's one of the easiest ways to begin hoarding money for investing.
 I've taken very good care of it.
 Car payments blow.
 It fucking rocks.
 I am one of those people that for many years drove an older, high mileage car when I could have afforded a much more expensive vehicle if I would have wanted to.
 This is absolutely no-one's business at work, people do not belong to their company, they are merely employees, they should not have their entire lives controlled for them in this manner.
 HR are, in essence, telling this employee how to spend his salary, which is terrible and judgemental.
 A car is a terrible investment.
 That thing looks like shit but has never had any problems and is cheap on gas, and even cheaper on insurance.
 I got that thing for $750 in 02, and I’m to the point that if it ever dies on me, I’m just gonna turn it into a track car.
 Even if a newer car would get (slightly) better milage, the impact of production and scrapping the old one far out weigh the benefits.
 Spending money on depreciable assets are always the most sound financial decisions.
 I bought it for $7k and did an engine rebuild on it myself for $1000 (huge savings compared to having the work done and I learned quite a bit while doing it).
 Most of the guys at work earn a bit less than I do but they’re all buying new cars right now and keep asking when I’m joining them.
 Am I missing something?
 But drive a sharp car.
 Quality of life, not quality of possessions.
 My GM has told me he’d rather I had a more expensive lifestyle, so that I’d be more motivated to earn commissions.
 And any city will have multiple car dealerships to choose from.
 Also no way an HR dept could force you to buy a new car or sell a current car.
 If a person has severe debts and has access to company bank accounts - that could be an issue.
 But the only employees I've ever seen whose car is a concern of the company is if they're either high-level sales people or lawyers.
 In both cases, the company's reputation may be damaged if the client sees some beat up piece of shit parking in the lot.
 They could also fire him for it and it would be legal assuming he isn't in Montana.
 They could fire him because he likes nickelback or whatever.
 That is the joy of living in work at will state.
 You can be fired for any non protected reason i.e race, religion, gender, etc.
 While I am unsure what the appearance of my vehicle has to do with my competency at my position, I will briefly elucidate.
 Camrys not being sports cars, they have lower insurance rates, and as the vehicle is fully paid off, I have no loan draining my finances.
 I am able to save money.
 This company prospers by employing people who can make good financial decisions.
 Please put me in touch with one of these dealerships that you prefer and we can get the purchase order set up.
 I hear xzibit isn't doing much these dayzzz.
 Perhaps I'll see about flying him out on my family's private jet to have him add sprewells, whistle tips, subwoofers, and fish tank windows to my beloved camry.
 In order to improve company immage.
 SKEET SKEET.
 In fact, it's pretentious in all contexts.
 Probably nothing he can do or they can do but hopefully can share this with the co info showing.
 It might also make the employee vulnerable to retaliation - and since \"vehicle choice\" isn't a protected class, they might have a hard time suing for their job back/damages.
 I will miss having $500/m to invest when I have to replace it.
 My buddy bought it a year ago and it's still running strong.
 Change your timing belt if you haven't since 2010, its the only thing that can take this nearly invincible beast down.
 This is outrageous \u0026 I don’t see how they could possibly do anything about it.
 Why not hire Morgan Freeman to narrate this message?
 Is the company having a difficult time financially?
 It also worked the other way, and he wouldn't bother trying to sell to someone with a nice house and a shitty car.
 It was true for us, we had more deliveries to the lower value neighborhoods than the nicer ones.
 They tipped like shit too, I gave exact change as often as receiving a tip.
 I sold them one summer when I was in college.
 And he's right...I was way more likely to make a sale to the folks living in a single-wide trailer with the new Firebird in the carport than anyone else.
 If the appearance of my car is of concern to the company, I would be willing to allow the company to pay for the cost of a professional paint job.
 This would make my car look like new while not saddling me with a monthly payment for a new car that I don't need.
 If, however, the company wishes to purchase a new vehicle for me from dealerships you've worked with in the past, I'd be willing to discuss my preferences.
 Driving an older vehicle is unfortunately not protected activity.
 If they’re that concerned with the appearance of his car it sounds to me like the company should be supplying him with a car that fits their requirements.
 If not, and this is the only concern they have, then I’m sure OP’s coworker won’t have too much trouble finding a job somewhere else that doesn’t care about superficial bullshit.
 They are downsizing and looking for idiotic ways to duck with people on the way out so they can laugh later.
 They have an $800 car payment and justify it by saying it's for work.
 Mister VP of HR.
 Why yes, I did receive your email.
 And, frankly, I don’t want to buy a new car because 1) I own my current car outright, 2) It works just fine, 3) My insurance is quite affordable, 4) My gas costs are low, and most importantly 5) It’s none of your goddamn business.
 I would raise hell over a letter like this.
 What's legalese for go fuck yourself?
 Major issues with this line.
 Knowing what I work and what I earn are one thing but asking an employee for an explanation on their personal finances is outright terrible.
 Kindly go fuck yourselves.
 There can’t possibly be an hr department who would write down those words.
 If it is real they should leave.
 Make them feel like shit for judging.
 Now getting pissed.
 He’s a good dude.
 High School: Are you poor?
 Since they are a depreciating asset, I prefer to drive them into the ground.
 I use the money I save on other investments.
 I would be more fearful of an employee whose identity is wrapped in the status value of the vehicle they drive.
 Quit so fast.
 Never have I ever heard of questioning someone about the condition of their car.
 Having debt you can't afford is a concern not the lack of debt.
 I'll admit their description about susceptibility to fraud is a legitimate risk but I've never seen it applied to an employee vehicle before.
 This “HR” person needs to find a new career, maybe roadside trash pickup.
 Your move HR.
 That's nitpicky as hell.
 I wouldn't want to work for them.
 I would not want to be associated with that company.
 The writing style, grammar and tone are professionally very off.
 Then go buy a 1978 Oldsmobile with rusted out paint and shredded seats that spews exhaust.
 Because.
 Fuck them.
 He (my brother) felt a smartphone would be redundant since, you know, he has a 3k laptop.
 In this world, some people do not need or wish to have the most expensive car they are able to afford.
 And as you stated, this seems to be a personal issue, but for someone other than myself as I am quite happy with my vehicle.
 Additionally, what kind of vehicle I drive was not mentioned in the job duties or in the interview process.
 Some people want a car that will get them from A to B.
 It's a personal choice, especially when you aren't representing your company in the car.
 If they want to judge financial sloth off outward gaudiness, they should look in a mirror.
 Odds are these asshats blow every penny of their paycheck-to-paycheck on the appearance of wealth and are barely staving off the implosion of their crippling debt.
 He was frugal, drove drab but maintained (and paid-off) cars and his bosses lost their fucking minds over it.
 Camrys are pretty reliable cars and the maintenance cost a very cheap.
 Why would any who understands money go buy a newer car that has high cost in returns of repairability , serviceability and maintenance.
 Not to mention the higher cost of insurance .
 I would simply tell HR to mind their business.
 Never happened.
 Absolutely nothing legal or corporate-approved.
 Terribly written.
 Depending on the state this is very illegal and regardless of the state is in unethical.
 He should really talk to a lawyer.
 I know we have in place regulations to prevent this type of thing and they all lead to termination.
 I would strongly advise that you make sure there is no identifying information on the picture, your account and that you don’t tell anyone about this post at work.
 Plausible deny ability is your friend.
 This really fucking sickens me.
 If you’re in an at will state the only protections you have are against discrimination based on a protected class (race, sex, religion, age, disability, and others depending on your state).
 Did I miss that?
 got 200K miles out of it before some asshole in a late model van and tboned me.
 His van was totaled.
 had to use the jaws of life to get me out.
 at that point, I had had that car for y e a r s .
 drove alllllll over the country in it.
 wish I had another.
 paint was dull but it kept my job and my newborn baby very safe.
 wish I could get luck enuf to find another one.
 that car literally made me money, AND saved me and my baby's life.
 fuck an exhobitant car payment for a toy fiberglass new car.
 I appreciate your concern and welcome an honest 163% salary increase to achieve my personal goals.
 Sincerely, ever grateful employee.
 Ppl do that.
 Anyways, this is fake.
 I'm financially sound.
 I still drive the same Jeep I bought 25 years ago.
 There's nothing wrong with choosing to drive a scruffy vehicle because you'd rather use your money for something else.
 Your employer doesn't GET to have an opinion about your car.
 I do not wish to take on debt simply to drive to work in a new vehicle to get a paycheck to give to the bank to pay for the vehicle that I drive to work in.
 That’s a nonsensical cycle and I do not wish to be the bank’s slave.
 I will even go pick one that I like from the dealership of my preference on my own time as a demonstration of good will.
 Let me know if that’s an acceptable solution.
 My hostile work environment attorney and I would be happy to have a meeting if you desire.
 I know a lot of very wealthy people that drive beaters because they’re thrifty and don’t upgrade.
 Like it's just on the edge of incoherent.
 This is a threat to the company because they could quit at anytime without any threat to their personal finance.
 Just because they don't drive a high end luxury car doesn't mean they're making a bad financial decisions.
 In fact it's quite the opposite!
 Some of us like old, but reliable cars and wouldn’t trade a good one for the latest plastic and overly computerized pos on the market.
 I’ll take an early 90’s corolla over a brand new one.
 Fuck a car payment.
 Biggest waste of money.
 He \u0026 his wife drove awful looking cars.
 He was a helluva mechanic \u0026 although the cars looked bad they ran great.
 This guy may just keep the nice car for the weekends \u0026 occasions.
 What industry do you work in?
 That’s so none of their business.
 He's in charge of over 700 people.
 He drove, for my entire childhood and up until last year, the first car he ever bought.
 A 1988 Honda Accord.
 No heat, windows didn't work, you had to stomp on the breaks, back door lock didn't work, etc.
 But it always ran.
 He waited until 2019 to buy a new car.
 (His new car?
 a 2017 Honda Accord.)
 He always had the worst looking car in the lot, BUT that allowed him to refurbish the house to no end, take my mom out once a week, get us all amazing Christmas gifts, go on vacations, etc.
 Not making monthly car payments is like giving yourself a raise.
 When I was a kid, I was embarrassed by that car.
 Now that I'm grown, I know exactly why he waited until the eleventh hour to get a new car.
 My mom is a neurologist who still drives her 99 Honda Civic.
 Having a lot of money doesn’t mean you have to spend a lot of money.
 Any From address can be spoofed so unless they confirmed it was actually sent by that person, it's worth checking.
 Basically, driving an owned,sound, safe, car for two years after the first major fix...and then repeating for the rest of your life....you could retire 8 years sooner than someone who financed cars and changed up every six years.
 8 years of your life for the sake of a nice car.
 Terrible investment is an understatement.
 Being a Toyota, it needs few repairs, how about yours?
 I put gas in weekly, never more than half a tank.
 I neither need, nor want a newer vehicle, nor am I interested wasting my hard earned money making payments on something I don't need.
 What size is your genitalia?
 Not comfortable with this paragraph?
 Imagine how your entire email made my skin crawl you nosy fucks.
 You self-righteous asshole.
 Sam Walton drove around in a beat up rusted out truck.
 Driving a beater when you make good money is a sign of frugality and financial savvy and is not a fraud risk.
 Or \"upgrade\" to a weinermobile or used food truck.
 His company basically did something similar and pushed on him an interest free loan to buy a new car..
 I drive a 1991 Corolla I bought for $2000 8 years ago.
 The way we can manage to save so much every month is by (amount other things).... Not having car payments!
 Gambling is a protected group under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
 The exposure to risk is too great.
 He drives a 2005 Camry.
 It’s not wrecked, just old and fading paint.
 He never has to meet anyone that they would ever see the car.
 It’s literally just another car in the garage.
 He drives a 2005 Camry.
 It’s not wrecked, just old and fading paint.
 He never has to meet anyone that they would ever see the car.
 It’s literally just another car in the garage.
 Any information that can be used to find the subjects posted here is banned.
 We don’t care about your reddit drama.
 No license plates.
 Any information that can be used to find the subjects posted here is banned.
 We don’t care about your reddit drama.
 Posts must be funny.
 If it makes you angry then it doesn’t belong here.
 Do not post content more suited for r/iamatotalpieceofshit or r/rage.
 Posts must be funny.
 If it makes you angry then it doesn’t belong here.
 Screenshots of text only are not allowed.
 )","description":"Don't post disgusting things.
 This isn’t for shock or gore.
 Temporary bans may follow.
 This isn’t for shock or gore.
 Temporary bans may follow.\u003C/p\u003E\n\u003C/div\u003E\u003C!-- SC_ON --\u003E","shortName":"Disgusting (bathroom, feces, urine, etc.
