View the collection | Find AAP resources here.
 Racism and Its Effects on Pediatric Health The American Academy of Pediatrics recognizes the harm racism causes to infants, children, adolescents, and their families.
 View the collection.
 Article  Age at First Measles-Mumps-Rubella Vaccination in Children With Autism and School-Matched Control Subjects: A Population-Based Study in Metropolitan Atlanta Frank DeStefano, Tanya Karapurkar Bhasin, William W. Thompson, Marshalyn Yeargin-Allsopp and Coleen Boyle Pediatrics February 2004, 113 (2) 259-266; DOI: https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.113.2.259   Frank DeStefano *National Immunization Program, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, GeorgiaFind this author on Google ScholarFind this author on PubMedSearch for this author on this siteTanya Karapurkar Bhasin ‡Battelle Memorial Institute, Centers for Public Health Research and Evaluation, Atlanta, GeorgiaFind this author on Google ScholarFind this author on PubMedSearch for this author on this siteWilliam W. Thompson *National Immunization Program, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, GeorgiaFind this author on Google ScholarFind this author on PubMedSearch for this author on this siteMarshalyn Yeargin-Allsopp §National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, CDC, Atlanta, GeorgiaFind this author on Google ScholarFind this author on PubMedSearch for this author on this siteColeen Boyle *National Immunization Program, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, GeorgiaFind this author on Google ScholarFind this author on PubMedSearch for this author on this site             ArticleFigures &amp; DataInfo &amp; MetricsComments          Download PDF     AbstractObjective.
 To compare ages at first measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccination between children with autism and children who did not have autism in the total population and in selected subgroups, including children with regression in development.Methods.
 A case-control study was conducted in metropolitan Atlanta.
 Vaccination data were abstracted from immunization forms required for school entry.
 Records of children who were born in Georgia were linked to Georgia birth certificates for information on maternal and birth factors.
 Conditional logistic regression was used to estimate odds ratios (ORs).Results.
 The overall distribution of ages at MMR vaccination among children with autism was similar to that of matched control children; most case (70.5%) and control children (67.5%) were vaccinated between 12 and 17 months of age.
 Similar proportions of case and control children had been vaccinated before 18 or before 24 months.
 No significant associations for either of these age cutoffs were found for specific case subgroups, including those with evidence of developmental regression.
 More case (93.4%) than control children (90.6%) were vaccinated before 36 months (OR: 1.49; 95% confidence interval: 1.04–2.14 in the total sample; OR: 1.23; 95% confidence interval: 0.64–2.36 in the birth certificate sample).
 This association was strongest in the 3- to 5-year age group.Conclusions.
 Similar proportions of case and control children were vaccinated by the recommended age or shortly after (ie, before 18 months) and before the age by which atypical development is usually recognized in children with autism (ie, 24 months).
 Vaccination before 36 months was more common among case children than control children, especially among children 3 to 5 years of age, likely reflecting immunization requirements for enrollment in early intervention programs.autismautism spectrum disordersMMR vaccineimmunizationsepidemiologyAutism is a serious, life-long developmental disorder characterized by marked impairments in social interactions; communication skills; and repetitive, restrictive, or stereotyped behaviors, interests, and activities.1 Recent studies have suggested that the prevalence of autism is higher (30–60 per 10 000 children)2–5 than in studies conducted 15 to 20 years ago (4–5 per 10 000).6–10 The apparent increase in prevalence, coupled with reports of increasing numbers of children with autism being served by schools and service agencies,11–14 has prompted concerns that environmental exposures might be causing autism.
 Vaccines, particularly the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine, are among the exposures for which there has been a great deal of speculation of a possible association with autism.Wakefield et al15 were the first to propose that MMR vaccine might be causally linked to autism.
 They published a report describing 12 pediatric patients with inflammatory bowel conditions and regressive developmental disorders, mostly autism.
 In 8 of the 12 cases, the children’s parents or pediatricians suggested that MMR vaccine might have contributed to the onset of behavioral problems.
 The same investigators subsequently proposed a new syndrome consisting of certain gastrointestinal conditions associated with behavioral regression16 and reported identifying laboratory evidence of measles virus genome in the peripheral white blood cells and bowel biopsy specimens of a few such patients.
 The investigators, however, did not distinguish whether the virus was wild measles virus or vaccine strain virus.17,18 Several epidemiologic studies have not found an association between MMR vaccination and autism.19–24 The Institute of Medicine (IOM)25 reviewed the MMR-autism hypothesis and rejected a causal association at the population level but encouraged additional studies to evaluate more fully the possibility that there are subgroups of children who might be at increased risk of autism from MMR vaccination.To examine further a possible relationship between MMR vaccine and autism, including in different subgroups of children, we conducted a large case-control study in metropolitan Atlanta in which we compared the MMR vaccination histories of a population-based sample of children with autism and school-matched control children who did not have autism.METHODSStudy PopulationChildren with autism were identified from the Metropolitan Atlanta Developmental Disabilities Surveillance Program (MADDSP), a multiple-source, population-based surveillance program that monitors the occurrence of selected developmental disabilities among children in the 5-county metropolitan Atlanta area.5,26 In 1996, the first year in which autism was included, MADDSP identified 987 children 3 to 10 years of age with autism, for a prevalence of 3.4 per 1000 children.5 The autism cases were identified through screening and abstraction of source files at schools, hospitals, clinics, and specialty providers.
 Clinical psychologists with expertise in the diagnosis of autism reviewed the abstracted records according to a standardized coding scheme to determine the presence of behavioral characteristics consistent with the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th edition (DSM-IV)1 criteria for autism spectrum disorders (ASDs).
 The study was approved by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s institutional review board.
 Because the activity was considered public health surveillance, parental consent was not required.
 Instead, permission to access records was obtained from each data source.For the current study, case children were derived from the 987 children who were originally identified in the 1996 MADDSP prevalence year.
 During the period from 1999 through 2001, we were able to locate school records with the required immunization documents for 660 case children.
 We were not able to find school immunization records for the remaining children because the children had moved out of state, transferred to a school in a county that was not under MADDSP’s jurisdiction, transferred to a private school that was not accessible by MADDSP, or were being home schooled.
 When a child moved or transferred, the child’s permanent school record, including immunization form, was transferred to the child’s new school.
 We were not able to quantify how many children were lost for each of these reasons because of incomplete record keeping at the schools.
 An additional 17 case children were excluded from the study because we could not identify matched control children for them.We attempted to match 3 control children to each case child and were successful for 97% of the case children; the remaining case children had fewer matched control children.
 Control children were selected from regular education programs and were matched to case children based on age in 1996 (within 1 year), gender, and school of attendance at the time of abstraction.
 However, when a case child was attending a psychoeducational school, a special school for children with behavioral and developmental difficulties, control children were selected from the school in the child’s residential area that the child would have attended had the child not had a disability.
 In addition, when a case child was in the last elementary grade level before middle school and was older than other children in his or her grade level, control children were selected from the middle school that the case child normally would have attended.We excluded case and control children from the study when they were missing a vaccination form (15 case children and 14 control children).
 We also excluded children with incomplete vaccination forms when the form did not list at least 1 diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis vaccine by 2 years of age or at least 1 MMR vaccination at any age (4 case children and 1 control child).
 Children with a religious or medical exemption (1 case and 1 control) were not excluded from the study.
 After all exclusions, 624 case and 1824 control children remained in the study.Classification of Autism SubgroupsThe MADDSP data files were reviewed by a developmental pediatrician (M.Y.A.)
 to identify subgroups of children with potentially different susceptibilities to development of autism from an environmental exposure, such as MMR vaccine.
 These groups, which were not mutually exclusive, included 1) children without any indication of developmental delay before 12 months of age (ie, before the recommended age of the first MMR vaccination) or a preexisting condition, 2) children with any indication of loss of age-appropriate developmental skills (regression) or appropriate skills that failed to progress (plateau), and 3) children with and children without coexisting mental retardation (MR).
 Children without any indication of developmental delay at
