This is to counter that.
 The woman was concerned about possible cuts to Medicaid funding.
 "Let me say this about autism," Green said.
 "I have committed to people in my community, up in Montgomery County, to stand on the CDC’s desk and get the real data on vaccines.
 Because there is some concern that the rise in autism is the result of the preservatives that are in our vaccines.
 "As a physician, I can make that argument and I can look at it academically and make the argument against the CDC, if they really want to engage me on it," Green said.Despite calls by the anti-vaccination movement for parents not to vaccinate their children against a number of diseases, CDC data disproves the movement's findings.Through multiple studies, the CDC has found no link between autism and vaccines, including from the mercury-based preservative in vaccines referenced by Green.The American Academy of Pediatrics has reiterated those findings.More: 'Vaccines save lives.'
 Did Sen. Lamar Alexander just throw shade at Mark Green?
 "Claims that vaccines are linked to autism, or are unsafe when administered according to the recommended schedule, have been disproven by a robust body of medical literature," wrote two American Academy of Pediatrics doctors last year.
 "Delaying vaccines only leaves a child at risk of disease.
 "Green says parents should vaccinate children, but more research neededAt the town hall, Green emphasized that he would make it a priority to "stand against" what he believes may be the CDC withholding information on vaccine research.
 "But it appears some of that data has been, honestly, maybe fraudulently managed," Green said.
 "So we've got to go up there and stand against that and make sure we get that fixed, that issue addressed.
 "In a statement Wednesday to USA TODAY NETWORK - Tennessee, Green elaborated that he was referring to discussions in the House in recent years, such as a concern raised in 2015 by Rep. Bill Posey, R-Florida, that the CDC covered up a possible link between autism and childhood vaccines.Who is Rep. Mark Green?
 : Doctor, Army veteran, Tennessee Republican who raised vaccine-autism link"It has been suggested on the floor of the House that the CDC may have not been transparent with data," Green said.
 "Parents should vaccinate their children, but more research definitely needs to be done.
 "Green said he "would encourage families to get vaccinated at this time," and confirmed that he and his wife had vaccinated their children.More: Rep. Mark Green, after vaccination-autism comments, says he vaccinated his own kids"There appears to be some evidence that as vaccine numbers increase, rates of autism increase," Green said.
 "We need better research, and we need it fast.
 We also need complete transparency of any data.
 Vaccines are essential to good population health.
 But that does not mean we should not look closely at the correlation for any causation.
 "Green previously made controversial comments on Muslims, LGBT peopleGreen, a state senator who will be sworn in Jan. 3 as a freshman in the U.S. House of Representatives, has previously come under fire for other controversial comments.Among them were remarks that cost the Iraq war veteran a job as President Donald Trump's Army secretary, causing him to withdraw his nomination for the post last year amid criticism over statements he made about gays, lesbians, transgender people and Muslims.Critics of his nomination at the time pointed to Green’s sponsorship of a bill that would allow mental health providers to refuse to treat LGBT patients.
 He also supported legislation to prevent transgender high school and college students from using public bathroom facilities.“If you poll the psychiatrists, they're going to tell you transgender is a disease," Green said at a Chattanooga Tea Party event in 2016.Green won the seat previously held by Republican Marsha Blackburn, who won election to the U.S. Senate.Reach Natalie Allison at nallison@tennessean.com.
