6891 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
final rule will enhance HHS/CDC™s ability to prevent the introduction, 
transmission, and spread of 
communicable diseases into the United 
States and interstate by clarifying and 
providing greater transparency 
regarding its response capabilities and 
practices. B. Summary of Major Provisions Both the domestic and foreign portions of this regulation include new proposed public health definitions; new 
regulatory language implementing HHS/ CDC™s activities concerning non- invasive public health prevention 
measures (i.e., traveler health screening) at U.S. ports of entry and other U.S. 
locations (i.e., railway stations, bus terminals); and provisions affording due 
process to persons served with a Federal 
public health order (e.g., isolation, quarantine), including requiring that 
HHS/CDC explain the reasons for 
issuing the order, administrative 
processes for appealing the order, and a 
mandatory reassessment of the order. The domestic portion of this final rule includes a requirement that commercial 
passenger flights report deaths or 
illnesses to the CDC. It also includes a 
provision requiring that individuals 
apply for a travel permit if they are 
under a Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release order (unless the 
specific travel is authorized by the 
Federal conditional release order) or if 
a State or local public health 
department requests CDC assistance in 
enforcing a State or local quarantine or 
isolation order. Additionally, the 
domestic portion of this final rule 
includes new regulatory language 
clarifying when an individual who is 
moving between U.S. states is 
‚‚reasonably believed to be infected™™ 
with a quarantinable communicable 
disease in a ‚‚qualifying stage.™™ These 
determinations are made when the CDC considers the need to apprehend or 
examine an individual for potential 
infection with a quarantinable 
communicable disease. The foreign 
portion of this final rule includes new 
regulatory authority permitting the CDC 
Director to prohibit the importation of 
animals or products that pose a threat to 
public health. HHS/CDC has also changed the text of the regulation to reflect modern 
terminology, technology, and plain 
language used by private industry, 
public health partners, and the public. 
The final rule also authorizes public 
health monitoring through electronic or 
internet-based means of communication 
for individuals under a Federal 
conditional release order who are 
reasonably believed to be exposed to or infected with a quarantinable communicable disease. This would 
include communication through email 
and webcam application tools. Finally, 
while neither modifying nor authorizing 
additional criminal penalties for 
violations of quarantine rules and 
regulations, this final rule updates 
regulatory language to align with 
existing criminal penalties set forth in 
statute. C. Summary of Costs and Benefits The regulatory impact analysis quantitatively addresses the costs and benefits associated with this final rule. 
The economic impact analysis of this 
final rule is subdivided into two 
sections. The first analysis summarizes the economic impact of changes to 42 CFR 
70.1, 42 CFR 71.1/71.4/71.5 for which 
the primary costs for submitting 
passenger and crew information to 
HHS/CDC are incurred by airlines and 
vessel operators and the primary benefit 
is improved public health 
responsiveness to assess and offer post- 
exposure prophylaxis to travelers 
potentially exposed to communicable 
diseases of public health concern. The 
most likely estimates of annual costs to 
airlines, vessel operators, the United 
States government, and public health 
departments are low ($32,622, range 
$10,959 to $430,839) because the final 
rule primarily codifies existing practice 
or improves alignment between existing 
regulatory text and the International 
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)™s 
guidelines for symptoms to report. The 
cost estimates in this final rule are based 
on (1) an anticipated small increase in 
the number of illness reports delivered 
by airlines and processed by HHS/CDC 
and (2) increased costs for airlines and 
vessel operators to comply with HHS/
CDC orders for traveler and crew contact 
data, to the extent that such information is readily available and already 
maintained, and not already transmitted 
to the U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection (CBP). The cost estimate also 
includes an increase in costs for public 
health departments to contact more 
exposed travelers due to the availability 
of improved contact data. The best estimate of the annual quantified benefits of the final rule are 
$110,045 (range $26,337 to $297,393) 
and mostly result from increased 
efficiencies for HHS/CDC and State and 
local public health departments to 
conduct contact investigations among 
travelers on an aircraft exposed to 
communicable diseases of public health 
concern, especially for measles and 
tuberculosis. To the extent that 
improved responsiveness of airlines to HHS/CDC traveler data orders may result from the implementation of the 
provisions in this final rule, HHS/CDC 
may become better able to respond to 
infectious diseases threats and (1) 
reduce case-loads during infectious 
disease outbreaks, (2) reduce public 
anxiety during disease outbreaks, (3) 
mitigate economic impacts on 
businesses as a consequence of reduced 
public anxiety associated with 
quarantinable communicable disease 
outbreaks initiated by international 
travelers (such as have been observed 
during outbreak of severe acute 
respiratory syndrome in Canada or 
Middle East respiratory syndrome in 
South Korea), and (4) reduce the amount 
of personnel labor time to conduct large- 
scale contact investigations in response 
to a new infectious disease or one with 
larger scale public health and medical 
consequences like Ebola. The second analysis in this final rule is of a number of provisions that aim to 
improve transparency of how HHS/CDC 
uses its regulatory authorities to protect 
public health. HHS/CDC believes that 
improving the quality of its regulations 
by providing clearer explanations of its policies and procedures is an important 
public benefit. However, HHS/CDC is 
not able to attach a dollar value to this 
added benefit in a significant way. II. Public Participation On August 15, 2016, HHS/CDC published a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) (81 FR 54299) to 
amend 42 CFR part 70 (interstate) and 
42 CFR part 71 (foreign) quarantine 
regulations. The public was invited to 
comment on these amendments. The 
comment period ended October 14, 
2016. In the NPRM, HHS/CDC 
specifically requested public comment 
on the following: •Whether the use of the standard definition of ‚‚indigent™™ is an 
appropriate threshold to determine 
whether an individual cannot afford 
representation and therefore should be 
appointed a medical representative at 
the government™s expense and whether 
the public believes that there may be 
non-indigent individuals, as defined in 
the NPRM, who may have difficulty 
affording a representative; •The definition of public health emergency and its utility in identifying communicable diseases that ‚‚would be 
likely to cause a public health 
emergency if transmitted to other 
individuals™™ under 42 U.S.C. 
264(d)(2)(B); •Requirements relating to travelers under a Federal order of isolation, 
quarantine, or conditional release; 
specifically, on whether stakeholders VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00003Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6892 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
1Section 3 of Executive Order 13295 (April 4, 2003) states that the functions of the President under sections 362 and 364(a) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 265 and 267(a) are assigned 
to the HHS Secretary. have concerns regarding the requirement imposed on conveyance 
operators to not ‚‚knowingly™™ transport 
individuals under a Federal order and 
the feasibility of this requirement and 
the application of this provision to 
individuals under State/local order as 
well as individuals traveling entirely 
within a State. •Public health prevention measures and whether the public has any 
concerns regarding the mandatory 
health screening of passengers using 
non-invasive means as defined in the 
proposal or the collection of personal 
information from screened individuals 
for the purposes of contact tracing; •Payment for care and treatment, and whether there are any concerns that all 
third party payments be exhausted prior 
to the Federal reimbursement of medical 
care or treatment for individuals placed 
under a Federal order for quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional surveillance; •The application of requirements relating to issuance of a Federal order 
for quarantine, isolation or conditional 
release as it applies to groups and 
whether this provision sufficiently 
informs the public of the important 
details concerning circumstances during 
which HHS/CDC would issue to groups 
or individuals Federal orders for 
quarantine, isolation, and conditional 
release and the duration and conditions 
of such orders; •Whether 72 hours is the necessary amount of time to conduct a 
reassessment after a Federal order is 
first issued, or if the reassessment 
should take place earlier or later; •Whether or not the public sees a role for the Federal government to 
ensure that basic living conditions, 
amenities, and standards are satisfactory 
when placing individuals under Federal 
orders; •Whether the definition of ‚‚non- invasive™™ aligns with common 
perceptions of what constitutes non- 
invasive procedures that may be 
conducted outside of a traditional 
clinical setting; •Whether the penalties proposed, and the circumstances under which 
such penalties may be imposed, were 
clearly explained; •The applicability of the December 13, 2007 system of records notice 
(SORN) to the activities proposed (72 FR 
70867), and whether the SORN 
sufficiently addresses the public™s 
concerns related to maintenance and 
protection of the data elements 
proposed; •The request for a passenger and crew manifest within 24 hours and 
whether the provision grants operators of airlines sufficient time for operators 
to respond to manifests orders; •The likelihood that the passenger and crew data elements requested are 
already collected and maintained by 
airline operators for transmission to 
CDC; •Any industry concerns regarding whether proposed section 71.63 
sufficiently details the circumstances 
under which HHS/CDC may impose an 
embargo on the importation of animals, 
articles, or things, including how such 
an embargo would be implemented, as 
well as any concerns regarding 
coordination with other Federal 
agencies. The public comment period for the proposed rule ended on October 14, 
2016 and HHS/CDC received 15,800 
comments from individuals, 
stakeholders, and groups. A summary of 
those comments and responses to those 
comments are found at Section IV, 
below. II. Background 
A. Legal Authority The primary legal authorities supporting this rulemaking are sections 361 and 3621of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 264, 265). HHS/ CDC also believes that the following Public Health Service Act sections are 
relevant with respect to this rulemaking: 
section 311 (42 U.S.C. 243), section 321 
(42 U.S.C. 248), section 322 (42 U.S.C. 
249), section 365 (42 U.S.C. 268), and 
sections 367Œ69 (42 U.S.C. 270Œ72). A 
detailed explanation of these legal 
authorities was provided in the NPRM 
published at 81 FR 54230 (Aug. 15, 
2016). B. Regulatory History On August 15, 2016, HHS/CDC published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to update 42 CFR 70 
(domestic) and 42 CFR 71 (foreign) 
quarantine regulations. These 
amendments were proposed to aid 
public health responses to outbreaks of 
communicable disease, such as the 
largest outbreak of Ebola virus disease 
(Ebola) on record, Middle East 
Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), both 
quarantinable communicable diseases, 
and repeated outbreaks of measles in the 
United States, a non-quarantinable 
communicable disease of public health 
concern. (81 FR 54299). Communicable 
diseases of public health concern are 
those diseases that because of their potential for spread, particularly during 
travel, may require a public health 
intervention. The provisions contained 
within the proposal were designed to 
enhance HHS/CDC™s ability to prevent 
the further importation and spread of 
communicable diseases into the United 
States and interstate by clarifying HHS/ CDC™s response capabilities, practices, and making them more transparent. III. Summary of the Final Rule Upon consideration of public comment, the following is a section-by- section summary of the changes from 
the proposed text that HHS/CDC made 
to parts 70 and 71: A. General References to ‚‚CDC™™ and ‚‚Director™™ in Parts 70 and 71 Throughout the regulatory text in parts 70 and 71, references to ‚‚CDC™™ or ‚‚HHS/CDC™™ have been replaced with 
‚‚Director.™™ This is in keeping with the 
common practice that federal agencies 
act through employees and officials to 
whom the authority involved has been 
delegated. Director is currently defined in sections 70.1 and 71.1 to mean ‚‚the 
Director, Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention, Department of Health 
and Human Services, or another 
authorized representative as approved 
by the CDC Director or the Secretary of 
HHS.™™ Where it is necessary to exclude 
CDC employees or officials from 
undertaking certain functions this has 
been indicated by use of parenthesis, 
e.g., ‚‚Director (excluding the CDC official who issued the quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release order).™™ 
This is a stylistic change from the 
NPRM, but does not result in a 
substantive change in the final rule. B. Definitions (Sections 70.1 and 71.1(b)) •The definition of Agreements has been removed. •The definition of Electronic or internet-based monitoring has been 
modified to include ‚‚communication 
through™™ these means and ‚‚audio™™ 
conference. •The definition of Indigent has been modified to increase the threshold to 
200% of the applicable poverty 
guidelines. •The definition of Ill person under section 71.1 has been modified to 
include a person who ‚‚Has a fever that 
has persisted for more than 48 hours™™ or 
‚‚Has acute gastroenteritis, which means 
either diarrhea, defined as three or more 
episodes of loose stools in a 24-hour 
period or what is above normal for the 
individual, or vomiting accompanied by 
one or more of the following: One or 
more episodes of loose stools in a 24- VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00004Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6893 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
hour period, abdominal cramps, headache, muscle aches, or fever 
(temperature of 100.4°F [38°C] or greater).™™ This language was quoted 
verbatim in the preamble of the NPRM 
at 81 FR 54305 but was inadvertently 
omitted from the proposed regulatory 
text. •The definition of Medical Examination has been modified to indicate that the health worker conducting the assessment must be 
‚‚licensed.™™ •The definition of Medical Representative has been changed to Representatives and now includes for an indigent individual the additional 
appointment of ‚‚an attorney who is 
knowledgeable of public health 
practices™™ if the indigent individual 
requests a medical review. •The definition of Non-invasive has been modified to: (1) Replace ‚‚physical 
examination™™ with ‚‚visual 
examination;™™ (2) specify that the 
individual performing the assessment 
must be a ‚‚public health worker (i.e., an individual with education and training 
in the field of public health)™™; and (3) 
remove ‚‚auscultation, external 
palpation, external measurement of 
blood pressure.™™ •A definition for Secretary has been added. Secretary means the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) or 
any other officer or employee of that 
Department to whom the authority 
involved has been delegated. We note 
that while the NPRM did not propose 
this definition, the NPRM referenced the 
Secretary in defining Public Health Emergency. Thus, HHS/CDC considers it useful to also define the term Secretary. C. Apprehension and Detention of Persons With Quarantinable 
Communicable Diseases (Section 70.6) This provision is has been finalized as proposed, with the exception that 
references to CDC have been replaced 
with Director throughout this section. 
HHS/CDC has also added a requirement 
that the Director arrange for adequate 
food and water, appropriate 
accommodation, appropriate medical 
treatment, and means of necessary 
communication, for individuals who are 
apprehended or held in quarantine or 
isolation. Similar language has been 
added to an analogous provision at 
Section 71.33(a). D. Medical Examinations (Sections 70.12 and 71.36) These provisions are finalized as proposed, with the exception that 
references to CDC have been replaced 
with Director throughout this section. 
HHS/CDC has also added a requirement that the Director, as part of the Federal order, advise the individual that the 
medical examination shall be conducted 
by an authorized and licensed health 
worker with prior informed consent. E. Requirements Relating to the Issuance of a Federal Order for 
Quarantine, Isolation, or Conditional 
Release (§§70.14 and 71.37) 
Paragraphs (a)(5) and (a)(4) of these provisions have been modified, 
respectively, to require that the Federal 
order include an explanation that the 
Federal order will be reassessed no later 
than 72 hours after it has been served 
and an explanation of the right to 
request a medical review, present 
witnesses and testimony at the medical 
review, and to be represented at the 
medical review by either an advocate 
(e.g., an attorney, family member, or physician) at the individual™s own 
expense, or, if indigent, to have representatives appointed at the 
government™s expense. Paragraph (b) of 
these provisions has been modified to 
require that a Federal public health 
order be served within 72 hours of an 
individual™s apprehension. Paragraph 
(c) has been modified to require that the 
Director arrange for translation or 
interpretation services of the Federal 
order as needed. References to CDC 
have been replaced with Director 
throughout this section. F. Mandatory Reassessment of a Federal Order for Quarantine, Isolation, or 
Conditional Release (§§70.15 and 

71.38) These provisions have been modified to include paragraph (g) which states 
that the Director shall arrange for 
translation or interpretation services of 
the Federal order as needed. References 
to CDC have been replaced with 
Director throughout this section. G. Medical Review of a Federal Order for Quarantine, Isolation, or Conditional 
Release (§§70.16 and 71.39) 
Paragraph (f) of these provisions has been modified to reference 
‚‚Representatives,™™ consistent with the 
change in definition. Paragraph (f) of 
these provisions has also been modified 
to remove, ‚‚and cannot afford a medical 
representative™™ because this language is 
duplicative and unnecessary if the 
individual has already qualified as 
indigent. Paragraph (k) of these 
provisions has been modified to state: 
‚‚The medical review shall be conducted 
by telephone, audio or video 
conference, or through other means that 
the medical reviewer determines in his/ her discretion are practicable for allowing the individual under quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release to participate in the medical 
review.™™ These provisions have also 
been modified to include paragraph (q) 
which states that the Director shall 
arrange for translation or interpretation 
services as needed for purposes of this 
section. References to CDC have been 
replaced with Director throughout this 
section. H. Administrative Records Relating to a Federal Order for Quarantine, Isolation, 
or Conditional Release (§§70.17 and 

71.29) These sections have been modified to remove paragraphs (5) regarding 
agreements between CDC and the 
individual. I. Payment for Care and Treatment (§§70.13 and 71.30) 
These provisions have been finalized as proposed, with the exception that 
references to CDC have been replaced 
with Director throughout this section. J. Agreements (§§70.18 and 71.40) 
These provisions have been removed. K. Penalties (§§70.18 and 71.2) 
The content of these provisions has been finalized as proposed. Proposed §70.19 
Penalties has been moved to §70.18, since proposed §70.18 

Agreements has been removed from this final rule. L. Public Health Prevention Measures To Detect Communicable Disease 
(§§70.10 and 71.20) 
Paragraph (b) has been modified to include ‚‚known or possible exposure™™ 
information to the list of information 
that may be collected. References to 
CDC have been replaced with Director 
throughout this section. M. Requirements Relating to Travelers Under a Federal Order of Isolation, 
Quarantine, or Conditional Release 
(Section 70.5) Paragraph (a), (a)(4), (b)(1), (b)(2), and (c) of this provision have been modified 
to remove ‚‚agreements.™™ Paragraph (d) 
has been modified to add ‚‚to 
individuals traveling entirely intrastate 
and to conveyances that may transport 
such individuals.™™ The language in 
paragraph (d) was discussed in the 
NPRM at 81 FR 54243 and public 
comment concerning intrastate 
application of this provision was 
explicitly solicited. The language, 
however, was inadvertently omitted 
from the regulatory text. References to 
CDC have also been replaced with 
Director throughout this section. In 
response to public comments, HHS/CDC VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00005Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6894 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
has included a requirement that the Director respond to a request for a travel 
permit within five (5) business days and 
to an appeal under this section within 
three (3) business days. Public 
comments concerning this provision are 
addressed below. N. Report of Death or Illness Onboard Aircraft Operated by an Airline (§70.11) 
This provision has been finalized as proposed, with the exception that 
references to CDC have been replaced 
with Director throughout this section. O. Requirements Relating to Transmission of Airline and Vessel 
Passenger, Crew, and Flight and Voyage 
Information for Public Health Purposes 
(§71.4 and 71.5) 
These provisions have been finalized as proposed, with the exception that the 
title has been modified to remove 
references to collection and storage of 
information to more accurately reflect 
the requirements under this section and 
references to CDC have been replaced 
with Director throughout this section. P. Suspension of Entry of Animals, Articles, or Things From Designated 
Foreign Countries and Places Into the 
United States (§71.63) 
This provision has been finalized as proposed with the exception that 
references to CDC have been replaced 
with Director throughout this section. Q. Report of Death or Illness (§71.21) 
The title of this provision has been finalized as proposed, to remove the word ‚‚Radio.™™ V. Overview of Public Comments to the 2016 NPRM On August 15, 2016 HHS/CDC published a Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking proposing to amend the 
current interstate (domestic) and foreign 
quarantine regulations for the control of 
communicable diseases. The NPRM 
included a 60-day public comment 
period and during this time, HHS/CDC 
received 15,800 comments from 
individuals, groups, organizations, 
industry, and unions. Comments were 
both in support of and in opposition to 
the regulation. Many public comments 
expressed concern that these updated 
regulations sought to compel medical 
treatment or vaccination without patient 
consent. One association stated its 
strong objection ‚‚to the coercive 
imposition of treatment, including 
vaccination, without the genuine 
consent of the patient.™™ HHS/CDC begins this section by stating that these regulations do not 
compel vaccination or involuntary medical treatment. In keeping with current practice, HHS/CDC will 
continue to recommend care and 
treatment, including post-exposure 
prophylaxis when indicated, to 
individuals who are either sick with or 
at risk of disease following exposure to 
a communicable disease of public 
health concern. HHS/CDC also received comments relating to immigration policy and regulations, issues of citizenship, border 
security, religion, personal testimony 
regarding adverse vaccine events, and requests to apply these regulations only 
to individuals who are not citizens of 
the United States. These comments are 
beyond the scope of this final rule and 
have not been included in this 
discussion. However, HHS/CDC notes 
that it will continue to apply 
communicable disease control and 
prevention measures uniformly to all 
individuals in the United States, 
regardless of citizenship, religion, race, 
or country of residency. HHS/CDC also received public comment regarding disinsection (i.e., 
measures to control or kill insect vectors 
of disease) and fumigation procedures, 
citing HHS/CDC™s statutory authorities 
relating to inspection, fumigation, and 
pest extermination. We note that while 
HHS/CDC maintains regulations at 42 
CFR 70.2 and 71.32(b) implementing 
this statutory authority, such comments 
are outside of the scope of this final 
rule, which did not include proposed 
changes to these regulatory provisions. The following is a discussion of public comments received that are 
applicable and within the scope of the 
regulation. Topics including: 
Accountability, Administrative Records, 
Agreements, Apprehension, Authority 
(including Scope), Conditional Release, 
Constitutional Issues (including 
Amendments, Court Cases, and Habeas 
Corpus), Data Collection, Definitions, 
Detention, Due Process, Economic 
Impact, Electronic Monitoring, 
Exposure, Informed Consent, Least 
Restrictive Means, Minors, Medical 
Assessments, Examination, Notice, 
Penalties, Privacy, Qualifying Stage, 
Quarantine, Quarantinable 
Communicable Diseases List, and others 
are discussed. A summary of comments and a response to those comments are found 
below, organized by general and specific 
comments that apply to both parts 70 
and 71, comments that only apply to 
part 70 (interstate), and comments that 
only apply to part 71 (foreign). A. Provisions Applicable to Both Parts 70 and 71 a. General Comments Since posting the proposed regulation on August 15, 2016, HHS/CDC received 15,800 public comments. HHS/CDC 
received several comments from 
individuals, groups, or industry 
requesting to extend the 60-day 
comment period. In light of the number 
of comments submitted, HHS/CDC has 
determined that a 60-day comment 
period was both fair and sufficient to 
adequately inform the public of the 
contents of this rulemaking, allow the 
public to carefully consider the 
rulemaking, and receive informed 
public feedback. Thus, HHS/CDC 
declines to reopen the comment period. Several commenters requested that HHS/CDC withdraw the NPRM in its 
entirety. A non-profit organization 
stated that the ‚‚NPRM would be, if 
adopted, a direct and onerous 
infringement of the personal liberties of 
Americans and an unnecessary 
aggressive method of assisting in the 
control of communicable disease.™™ 
Another commenter said that the 
‚‚NPRM is premature.™™ HHS/CDC 
disagrees and declines to withdraw the 
proposal in its entirety because it 
contains important measures that will 
aid the public health response to 
prevent the introduction, transmission, 
and spread of communicable diseases 
into and within the United States. 
Moreover, in the spirit of transparency, 
these measures, which are largely 
current practice, are being published and codified to make the public aware 
of their use. HHS/CDC received a comment from a partnership of public health legal 
scholars and organizations stating that it 
should promulgate a separate rule 
guaranteeing humane conditions of 
confinement. HHS/CDC disagrees that 
such a separate rule is needed and 
believes that the current final rule 
adequately addresses these concerns, as 
discussed in detail below. HHS/CDC received a comment that the proposed rule does not comply with 
Executive Order 12866 because there is 
no public need for the rule and it did 
not adequately assess the costs and 
benefits of the rule, including the 
alternative of not regulating. HHS/CDC 
disagrees. As discussed in detail below, 
this rule describes the public health 
measures that may be used in response 
to outbreaks of communicable diseases, 
such as the recent largest recorded 
outbreak of Ebola. The economic impact 
analysis has been clarified to more 
clearly differentiate quarantinable and 
non-quarantinable diseases. The VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00006Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6895 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
economic impact analysis also examines the costs and benefits of the Final Rule 
measured against current practices (i.e., 
a status quo baseline). Both the costs 
and benefits of this Final Rule are small 
because the provisions set forth are 
primarily a codification of current 
practices, based on existing regulatory 
authorities. A public health research center commented that there is no evidence 
that measures employed at points of 
entry were effective during the response 
to the 2014Œ2016 Ebola outbreak and 
that HHS/CDC is attempting to codify 
these ineffective practices for use in 
future disease outbreaks. They further 
noted that despite greater than 99% 
complete monitoring, zero cases of 
Ebola were detected among those 
monitored. HHS/CDC appreciates this 
comment and recognizes the challenges 
presented by measuring the benefits of 
prevention in public health. HHS/CDC disagrees that the measures employed in response to the 2014Œ16 
Ebola outbreak were ineffective and that 
it is seeking to codify ineffective 
measures. HHS/CDC considers more 
than 99% complete monitoring a 
successful effort in State and Federal 
cooperation in response to an 
unprecedented outbreak of Ebola. 
Second, rather than the number of cases 
detected, HHS/CDC considers the key 
metrics of effectiveness to be the 
number of people who were able to 
continue to travel safely without fear of 
disease spread and the ability to 
facilitate rapid isolation and evaluation 
of the approximately 1400 individuals 
who developed illness compatible with 
Ebola during the 21-day monitoring 
period. Finally, we note that this 
commenter limited his or her statement 
to HHS/CDC measures put into place at 
U.S. ports of entry during the Ebola 
response. The enhanced public health risk assessment protocol put into place at 
U.S. ports of entry in response to the 
Ebola outbreak was one part of a layered risk mitigation program to prevent the 
importation and spread of Ebola within 
the United States, which included exit 
screening in the affected countries as 
recommended by the World Health 
Organization (WHO) (see Statement on 
the 1st meeting of the International 
Health Regulations [IHR] Emergency 
Committee on the 2014 Ebola outbreak 
in West Africa 8/8/2014) and a reliance 
on air industry partners for detection 
and reporting of potentially ill travelers 
prior to arrival. The enhanced entry risk assessment process was instituted after an 
individual infected with Ebola entered 
the United States and transmitted the disease. This case demonstrated that the 
processes then in place to prevent 
departure of individuals exposed to or 
infected with Ebola in affected West 
African countries could not detect 
persons who were exposed but were 
unaware of or denied such exposure and 
were potentially incubating the 
infection. To further reduce the risk of 
introduction and spread, HHS/CDC 
recommended monitoring of all 
potentially exposed individuals by a 
public health authority through the 21- 
day risk period after potential exposure, 
rather than relying on previously 
recommended self-monitoring. 
Monitoring was viewed as the least 
restrictive alternative to widespread 
quarantine and travel bans demanded 
by some members of the public that 
would ultimately have hampered the 
response efforts in West Africa and 
domestically. HHS/CDC, along with its 
Federal and State partners, 
implemented an entry process by which 
individuals identified as having recently 
traveled to, from, or through an affected 
country entered through five ports of 
entry where public health staff and 
partners were stationed, submitted 
accurate and complete contact 
information, were checked for 
symptoms, and were provided answers 
to Ebola risk assessment questions. This was done for several reasons: •To ensure that any individual entering the United States who could have been exposed to or infected with 
Ebola in a country experiencing an 
Ebola outbreak was identified and 
reported to the State and local health 
department of final destination so that, 
if the individual became ill, State or 
local health departments could rapidly 
notify healthcare providers prior to the 
individual™s arriving at a hospital. This 
process was designed specifically to 
prevent unknowing individuals from 
exposing others such as occurred in 
Texas when a patient exposed two 
healthcare workers. •While HHS/CDC acknowledges that a public health worker may be unlikely 
to encounter someone with symptoms at 
the moment of entry because of the 21- 
day incubation period, individuals 
coming from the outbreak countries 
frequently traveled for well over 24 
hours and in many cases had itineraries 
that involved interstate movement 
within the United States. The odds of 
developing symptoms during that travel, 
and potential onward travel, were 
considered non-trivial, and public 
health measures to detect symptoms 
upon entry were considered warranted 
given the serious morbidity and costs 
associated with Ebola. •The risk assessment at the limited ports of entry provided an important opportunity for HHS/CDC to stratify the 
risk of developing Ebola for every 
individual who entered from the 
affected countries. It allowed HHS/CDC 
to work with State and local health 
departments in implementing the least 
restrictive means of monitoring 
individuals for development of 
symptoms. HHS/CDC notes that there 
were no Federal quarantine orders 
issued because of the availability of 
monitoring options provided by State 
and local authorities under the Interim 
U.S. Guidance for Monitoring and 
Movement of Persons with Potential 
Ebola Virus Exposure. •The encounter also provided an opportunity to provide travelers with 
educational materials, orientate them to 
the monitoring program (Check and 
Report Ebola (CARE)), and facilitate 
reporting of the traveler™s health status 
to State and local health departments. The enhanced entry risk assessment and monitoring process described above 
was developed in response to the 
epidemiological profile of Ebola and the 
complexities of a 21-day incubation 
period. However, in the event of an 
outbreak of a different communicable 
disease requiring enhanced assessment 
or monitoring of travelers (whether 
quarantinable or non-quarantinable), 
HHS/CDC, in concert with Federal and 
State partners, may implement a 
different system of risk assessment and 
monitoring. HHS/CDC would tailor the 
program in accordance with the 
scientific evidence of the situation and 
the utility and feasibility of the program 
given the availability of resources. The same public health research center commented that employing non- 
evidence-based measures is contrary to 
the United States™ international legal 
agreements, specifically mentioning the 
public health measures implemented 
during the response to Ebola as they 
pertain to the International Health 
Regulations (IHR 2005). The commenter further stated that given the absence of 
evidence to support the use of travel 
monitoring and quarantine, HHS/CDC 
should proceed cautiously before 
employing these measures in the future. Having addressed the commenter™s concern regarding the evidence of the 
effectiveness of public health measures 
at ports of entry above, HHS/CDC 
concurs with the commenter that the 
use of quarantine and travel restrictions, 
in the absence of evidence of their 
utility, is detrimental to efforts to 
combat the spread of communicable 
disease. However, HHS/CDC disagrees 
that it used non-evidence based 
measures in contravention of the IHR. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00007Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6896 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
To the contrary, HHS/CDC used the best available science and risk assessment 
procedures in designing a port of entry 
risk assessment and management 
program that took into account available 
resources, circumstances in the 
countries with Ebola outbreaks, and 
principles of least restrictive means to 
successfully ensure that measures to ban 
travel between the United States and the 
affected countries were unnecessary. 
These measures would have negatively 
impacted the efforts to combat Ebola in 
the region and would have had dramatic 
negative implications for travelers and 
industry. Furthermore, the measures did not unduly affect travel or trade beyond the 
voluntary changes made by industry 
and travelers. HHS/CDC believes that 
CDC™s entry risk assessment and 
management program was appropriate, 
commensurate with the risk, and 
consistent with the following WHO 
recommendation: ‚‚[Member] States 
should be prepared to detect, 
investigate, and manage Ebola cases; 
this should include assured access to a 
qualified diagnostic laboratory for Ebola 
and, where appropriate, the capacity to 
manage travelers originating from 
known Ebola-infected areas who arrive 
at international airports or major land 
crossing points with unexplained febrile 
illness.™™ WHO Statement on the 1st meeting of the IHR Emergency 
Committee on the 2014 Ebola outbreak 
in West Africa (Aug. 8, 2014). Travelers 
were assessed for risk on an individual 
basis upon entry; and any individual 
who met the pre-defined symptom 
threshold (based on exposure level) was 
medically evaluated and referred to care 
as needed. No Federal quarantine orders 
were issued for the duration of the 
response because HHS/CDC in 
coordination with State and local public 
health authorities was able to tailor its 
interventions to allow onward travel. Future outbreaks may necessitate a different combination of public health 
measures at ports of entry. In those 
circumstances, HHS/CDC will use the 
best available science to assess the risk 
of importation and spread within the 
United States. One commenter suggested that if HHS/CDC were to apply the 
‚‚Precautionary Principle,™™ it would not 
promulgate these regulations. HHS/CDC notes first that the ‚‚precautionary 
principle,™™ often described as the 
avoidance of harm when there is 
scientific uncertainty about risks, 
originated in environmental contexts 
and remains largely associated with 
environmental issues. Invoking the 
precautionary principle in an 
environmental context, for instance, places the onus on those considering a potentially harmful action, such as 
drilling or mining near a watershed, to 
prove its safety in advance. The 
principle may be used by policy makers 
to justify discretionary decisions in 
situations where there is the possibility 
of harm from making a certain decision 
(e.g. taking a particular course of action) when extensive scientific knowledge on 
the matter is lacking. HHS/CDC disagrees that this regulation will have harmful effect or 
that these measures lack a scientific 
basis for protecting public health. In 
fact, as described above regarding the 
response efforts to the 2014Œ2016 Ebola 
response, HHS/CDC has successfully 
employed the measures outlined in this 
regulation for many years. Again, the 
provisions outlined through this 
regulation are not new practices, nor 
new authorities, but a codification of 
HHS/CDC practice to protect public 
health. One commenter suggested that education on healthy practices would be 
more effective than regulatory 
provisions. Another commenter stated 
that our immune systems would ward 
off communicable disease if we 
encourage clean water, adequate shelter, 
effective sewage treatment, and 
nutritious food. HHS/CDC agrees that 
these necessities are important to public 
health, and we rely on health 
communication often to educate the 
public on how to protect themselves 
and others from certain communicable 
diseases. For example, HHS/CDC 
routinely advises people with seasonal 
influenza to stay home from work and 
school, to cover their coughs and 
sneezes, and to wash their hands. HHS/ CDC also works with State, local, and airport authorities in posting health 
education materials for the public. 
However, in certain circumstances, 
when a communicable disease poses a 
severe health threat to others, additional 
measures may be needed to protect the 
public™s health. This is particularly 
important in situations when the 
infectious individual has disregarded 
public health recommendations by, for 
example, refusing to take prescribed 
medications to treat infectious 
tuberculosis or traveling while 
infectious. In such situations, it may be necessary to use public health 
authorities to require the individual to 
remain in isolation or to prevent travel 
to protect the public™s health. HHS/CDC received a few comments suggesting that publication of the NPRM 
in the Federal Register was not 
sufficient to inform the public of these 
proposed updates. One comment 
questioned why the proposed regulations were not more widely 
disseminated through media outlets. In 
response, HHS/CDC notes that Federal 
courts have long recognized that 
publication in the Federal Register is 
legally sufficient for giving affected 
persons notice of proposed rulemaking. 
See Federal Crop Ins. Corp. v. Merrill, 332 U.S. 380, 385 (1947) (‚‚Congress has 
provided that the appearance of rules 
and regulations in the Federal Register 
gives legal notice of their contents.™™). 
The Federal Register, within the National Archives and Records 
Administration, is the official 
publication for all Federal agency rules, 
proposed rules, and notices of Federal 
agencies and organizations, as well as 
for Executive Orders and certain other 
presidential documents. Individuals 
interested in obtaining more 
information regarding HHS/CDC™s 
regulatory processes, including input 
provided by persons and organizations, 
may examine the regulatory docket or 
submit a request through the Freedom of 
Information Act. HHS/CDC received a comment stating that HHS/CDC should, by regulation, 
provide sufficient public health 
justification for screening practices to 
support its proposed public health 
prevention measures at ports of entry. 
While HHS/CDC agrees that it should 
provide sufficient public health 
justification for large-scale screening 
practices, HHS/CDC disagrees that this 
justification should be formalized in 
regulations. During the 2014Œ2016 Ebola 
epidemic, HHS/CDC issued Interim U.S. Guidance for Monitoring and Movement 
of Persons with Potential Ebola Virus 
Exposure to assist HHS/CDC staff and public health partners engaged in the 
response. The guidance provided public 
health authorities and partners with 
recommendations for monitoring people 
potentially exposed to Ebola and for 
evaluating their intended travel, 
including the application of movement 
restrictions when necessary. From 
August 2014ŒDecember 2015, the 
guidance was accessed online 
approximately 334,000 times, with more 
than 88,000 views during the first 4 
days after the October 2014 update that 
added recommendations for active 
monitoring and clarified travel and 
movement restriction recommendations. 
Updates to the guidance to 
accommodate new information and 
changes in the outbreak situation 
continued through 2015. The guidance 
was retired on February 19, 2016, when 
more than 45 days had passed since 
Guinea was declared free of Ebola virus 
transmission, signaling widespread 
human-to-human transmission in the VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00008Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6897 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
affected countries was at an end. Formalizing this guidance in regulation 
would have deprived HHS/CDC of the 
needed flexibility to respond to public 
health events as they occurred, would 
have proved administratively 
burdensome and unnecessary, and 
would have potentially delayed 
prevention measures therefore resulting 
in a less effective response. HHS/CDC 
will consider the need for similar 
guidance during future outbreaks taking 
into account the extent of the outbreak 
and the risk of importation and spread 
of disease into the United States. HHS/CDC received several comments suggesting that the proposed regulations 
were not written in plain language and 
were therefore difficult to understand. 
One commenter also noted errors in the 
document such as hyperlinks, 
references, and footnotes. This 
commenter also reviewed the NPRM for 
inconsistencies, conflicts, missing 
definitions, misleading language, and 
ambiguities. HHS/CDC thanks these 
commenters for the input. We have 
developed communication materials 
and published them to our Web site to 
help facilitate the review and 
comprehension of these documents. 
Interested persons should see http://
www.cdc.gov/quarantine/notice- 
proposed-rulemaking-control- 
communicable-diseases.html. One commenter opposed the rule because of a perceived negative social 
impact upon individuals placed under a 
public health order. We respond that 
one compelling reason for the 
publication of this final rule is to make 
the public aware of these measures so 
that the words, purposes, and meanings 
of ‚‚quarantine™™ and ‚‚isolation™™ become 
more familiar and less likely to cause 
public anxiety and stigmatization. HHS/CDC received comments suggesting that, to best prevent the 
introduction of communicable diseases 
into the U.S., individuals who travel to 
or originate in countries with high risk 
of communicable disease should not be 
allowed to enter (or return to) the 
United States. On March 27, 2015, HHS/ CDC published a Notice in the Federal Register titled Criteria for Recommending Federal Travel 
Restrictions for Public Health Purposes, 
Including for Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers. 
See 80 FR 16400 (Mar. 27, 2015). The Notice describes the tools the Federal government has to ensure that people 
who pose a public health risk do not 
board flights or enter the United States 
without a public health evaluation. See 
80 FR 16400 (Mar. 27, 2015). It is the 
policy of HHS/CDC to work with the 
Department of State, and any other 
relevant Federal and State agencies to ensure infected U.S. citizens seeking to return to the U.S. do so in a manner that 
does not place the public at risk. A few commenters expressed concern, as parents or guardians, about their 
rights with respect to children or 
minors. Specifically, these commenters 
wondered whether children/minors 
would be separated from parents/
guardians during a public health risk 
assessment. HHS/CDC thanks the 
commenters for these questions and 
appreciates the opportunity to respond. 
In response, HHS/CDC notes that these 
regulations do not limit the rights that 
parents or guardians may have over 
minor children, including the right to 
make medical decisions. 
Notwithstanding, children are included 
in the definition of ‚‚individuals™™ as 
used in these regulations and thus 
minor children may be subject to 
apprehension, detention, examination, 
and conditional release for 
quarantinable communicable diseases to 
the same extent as adults. In such rare 
circumstances, HHS/CDC will work 
with the child™s parent or guardian to 
ensure that the rights accorded to any 
individual subject to Federal isolation 
or quarantine, such as the opportunity 
for an administrative medical review, 
are adequately protected. In addition, and in keeping with standard public health practice, parents 
or guardians while in the presence of 
infected minor children may be required 
to adhere to infection control 
precautions for their own protection. 
Such protections may include wearing 
personal protective equipment (such as 
a mask) while in close proximity to the 
child/minor to avoid further 
transmission of the illness. In extremely 
rare circumstances, such as a child 
infected with Ebola, the risk may be too 
great to allow a parent to remain with 
a child; however, every effort will be 
made to facilitate communication 
between a parent and a minor child 
through the least restrictive means, for 
example, through the use of technology. One commenter asked about HHS/CDC obtaining the consent of a parent 
or legal guardian prior to the medical 
examination, quarantine, or treatment of 
minors. We respond that HHS/CDC will 
adhere to all applicable laws regarding 
the medical examination or treatment of 
minors. If minors are traveling unaccompanied by a parent or legal 
guardian and are believed to be infected 
with or exposed to a quarantinable 
communicable disease, HHS/CDC will 
use its best efforts to contact a parent or 
guardian to obtain consent prior to 
medical examination. In addition, HHS/ CDC will not restrict a minor™s ability to communicate with family or legal counsel hired by the minor™s parent or legal guardian. As explained further 
below, HHS/CDC will appoint 
representatives, including a medical 
representative and an attorney, if the 
individual (including a minor™s parent 
or legal guardian) is indigent and 
requests a medical review. HHS/CDC 
clarifies, however, that the public health 
measures included in this final rule, 
including apprehension, examination, 
quarantine, and isolation, do not require 
a parent or legal guardian™s consent as 
a prerequisite to their application. 
However, in response to concerns about 
informed consent, HHS/CDC has added 
regulatory language requiring that the 
Director advise the individual that if a 
medical examination is required as part 
of a Federal order that the examination 
will be conducted by an authorized and 
licensed health worker with prior 
informed consent. b. Scope and Authority HHS/CDC received comments from the public questioning whether HHS/CDC is a part of the Federal government 
and has the authority to propose and 
promulgate regulations, or whether the 
Agency is a private entity. The 
‚‚Communicable Disease Center™™ 
became part of the U.S. Public Health 
Service on July 1, 1946 and is an 
Agency within the U.S. Department of 
Health and Human Services. For more 
information on the history of CDC, 
please see http://www.cdc.gov/museum/ timeline/index.html. HHS/CDC received numerous comments from the public seeking 
clarity on the scope of authority the 
Agency has to take actions described in 
this regulation. Specifically, HHS/CDC 
received comments questioning whether 
the authority to detain an individual 
may be exercised by a Federal agency of 
government, instead of the U.S. 
President or Congress. Several 
commenters specifically questioned 
whether the wording of the regulation 
was too ‚‚general™™ and expressed 
concern over its potential for abuse. A 
public health organization 
recommended that HHS/CDC™s 
authority should be limited only to 
those diseases listed by Executive Order as quarantinable communicable 
diseases. An association suggested that 
the proposed rule would vastly increase 
the authority of HHS/CDC. One 
individual stated that this regulation is 
an attempt by HHS/CDC to evade 
Congress. One organization speculated 
that HHS/CDC plans to request that the 
list of quarantinable communicable 
diseases be expanded ‚‚to include 
measles and other vaccine targeted 
diseases for the purpose of VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00009Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6898 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
apprehending and quarantining travelers entering the US or traveling 
between States, who have not been 
vaccinated with MMR (measles-mumps- 
rubella vaccine) and other Federally 
recommended vaccines.™™ In response, HHS/CDC first notes that it cannotŠand will notŠact beyond the 
scope of authority granted by Congress 
in statute; HHS/CDC offers the following 
clarifications. Under section 361(a) of 
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
264(a)), the HHS Secretary is authorized 
to make and enforce regulations as in 
the Secretary™s judgment are necessary 
to prevent the introduction, 
transmission, or spread of all 
communicable diseases from foreign 
countries into the States or possessions 
of the United States and from one State 
or possession into any other State or 
possession. Under section 361(b)(42 
U.S.C. 264(b)), the authority to issue 
regulations authorizing the 
apprehension, examination, detention, 
and conditional release of individuals is 
limited to those communicable diseases 
specified in an Executive Order of the 
President, i.e., ‚‚quarantinable communicable diseases.™™ The authority 
for carrying out these regulations has 
been delegated from the HHS Secretary 
to the CDC Director, who in turn 
delegated these authorities to HHS/
CDC™s Division of Global Migration & 
Quarantine (DGMQ). These 
quarantinable communicable diseases 
are currently limited to cholera, 
diphtheria, infectious tuberculosis (TB), 
plague, smallpox, yellow fever, and 
viral hemorrhagic fevers (such as 
Marburg, Ebola, Lassa fever, and 
Crimean-Congo), severe acute 
respiratory syndromes, and influenza 
caused by novel or re-emergent 
influenza viruses that are causing or 
have the potential to cause a pandemic. 
See Executive Order 13295 (April 4, 2003), as amended by Executive Order 
13375 (April 1, 2005) and Executive 
Order 13674 (July 31, 2014). Changes to 
the list of quarantinable communicable 
diseases are beyond the scope of this 
regulation. And again, we reemphasize 
that HHS/CDC does not intend, through 
these regulations, to mandate 
vaccination or compulsory medical 
treatment of individuals. One commenter supported the international proposals (part 71), but 
urged HHS/CDC to remove the domestic 
portion (part 70) of this regulation. We 
disagree. HHS/CDC™s authorities apply 
to all travelers in the United States, 
regardless of citizenship or residency, 
and are intended to complement State 
authorities within their jurisdictions by providing a mechanism to prevent 
importation of communicable disease from other countries as well as spread 
of communicable disease between States 
and between States and territories. 
Thus, HHS/CDC™s and States™ 
authorities together create a 
comprehensive system to protect the 
public from communicable disease 
threats including in situations such as 
interstate travel when a single State™s 
authorities may be inadequate to 
address the communicable disease 
threat. Several commenters suggested that HHS/CDC has the authority to 
unilaterally change or update the list of 
quarantinable communicable diseases. 
Other commenters requested that the 
list be narrowed to only those diseases 
with a ‚‚high mortality rate.™™ HHS/CDC 
reemphasizes that, as prescribed by 
statute, the list of quarantinable 
communicable diseases may only be 
changed by Executive Order of the 
President and that such suggestions are 
beyond the scope of this final rule. HHS/CDC received several comments on the Agency™s accountability system, 
encouraging that a ‚‚strong system of 
checks and balances™™ should be in place 
for this regulation to be implemented. 
HHS/CDC agrees that there should be 
accountability and oversight regarding 
the agency™s activities. We note that 
these regulations do not affect the 
ability of Congress to conduct its 
oversight activities or affect the 
jurisdiction of federal courts to review 
federal agency actions under the 
Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 
704). HHS/CDC received a comment that there is no court supervision of HHS/
CDC activities. We disagree. These 
regulations do not affect the jurisdiction 
of the Federal courts or the statutory 
rights of individuals to obtain judicial 
review of CDC™s actions and decisions 
through appropriate mechanisms such 
as the habeas corpus statute (28 U.S.C. 
2241) or the Administrative Procedure 
Act (5 U.S.C. 704). Some commenters questioned the need for HHS/CDC to use its authorities 
if the threat of death is minimal 
compared with the size of the 
population, listing illnesses such as 
chickenpox, pertussis, Zika, the 
common cold and flu, and leprosy. One 
organization suggested that, through the 
language of the NPRM, HHS/CDC was 
‚‚equating™™ non-quarantinable diseases 
with quarantinable diseases. Another 
commenter suggested that HHS/CDC™s 
authority to act should be based on the 
mortality of the illness, rather than 
whether or not it appears on the list of 
quarantinable communicable diseases. 
HHS/CDC thanks the commenters for consideration of the proposal as well as the input provided. First, we note that HHS/CDC only has authority to quarantine or isolate 
individuals who have illnesses that are 
listed by Executive Order of the 
President as quarantinable 
communicable diseases. HHS/CDC does 
not have the ability or authority to 
unilaterally modify the list of 
quarantinable communicable diseases. 
Second, because HHS/CDC also has 
statutory authority to prevent the 
‚‚introduction, transmission, and 
spread™™ of communicable diseases, 
HHS/CDC may take actions other than 
quarantine or isolation to protect the 
public™s health. These other actions may 
include contact tracing investigations to 
notify individuals to seek proper 
treatment if they have been exposed to 
a communicable disease, even if the 
disease is not listed by Executive Order 
as quarantinable. HHS/CDC does not 
seek to compel vaccination or medical 
treatment. In keeping with current 
practice, HHS/CDC recommends certain 
vaccines for post-exposure prophylaxis 
and individuals may choose to follow 
these recommendations as they deem 
appropriate. Other commenters questioned why diseases such as Ebola, measles, and 
ZikaŠthree very different diseases with 
three very different effects on 
individualsŠare used to support the 
same regulatory provisions. One 
organization quoted the NPRM, citing 
correctly that while measles is not a 
quarantinable communicable disease, it 
was used in the NPRM to support the 
need for this updated regulation. HHS/ 
CDC welcomes the opportunity to 
provide further clarification. The proposed rule provides HHS/CDC with a number of options for public 
health interventions based on a public 
health risk assessment of the 
communicable disease in question and 
the situation at hand. These 
interventions could include conducting 
a contact investigation on an airplane or 
vessel if a person with a serious 
communicable disease was known to 
have traveled on the airplane or vessel. 
These contact investigations are similar 
to those conducted by health 
departments in community settings. In 
addition to these interventions, for the 
nine communicable diseases currently designated by Executive Order as 
quarantinable communicable diseases, 
HHS/CDC may apprehend, detain, 
examine, quarantine, isolate, or 
conditionally release individuals for 
purposes of preventing communicable 
disease spread. Ebola and infectious 
tuberculosis are examples of 
quarantinable communicable diseases. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00010Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6899 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
HHS/CDC also provides the public with recommendations to address other communicable diseases of public health 
concern. Zika is a good example of a 
disease of public health concern 
because of the ways it can be spread, 
e.g., through mosquitoes, sexual transmission, and maternal-fetal 
transmission. Therefore, HHS/CDC has 
recommended avoiding mosquito bites, 
protecting against sexual transmission, 
and for pregnant women to avoid travel 
to areas where Zika is spreading. 
Another example is seasonal influenza, 
which is very contagious but also very 
common; therefore, HHS/CDC makes 
recommendations for people sick with 
flu-like symptoms to stay home from 
work or school and take basic 
precautions such as covering their 
coughs and sneezes and washing their 
hands. In all situations, HHS/CDC 
considers how common and severe the 
communicable disease is, how it is 
transmitted, and what interventions are 
available and appropriate before making 
recommendations or taking action to 
protect the health of the public. One commenter questioned why HHS/CDC was not able to currently 
control all communicable diseases, 
specifically leprosy. While HHS/CDC 
works regularly and continuously with 
other Federal, State, local and tribal 
health departments to eliminate the 
introduction, transmission and spread 
of all communicable disease, outbreaks 
can and do still occur. HHS/CDC staff 
have experienced first-hand the impact 
of globalization on public health. The 
rapid speed and tremendous volume of 
international and transcontinental 
travel, commerce, and human migration 
enable microbial threats to disperse 
worldwide in 24 hoursŠless time than 
the incubation period of most 
communicable diseases. These and 
other forces intrinsic to modern 
technology and ways of life favor the 
emergence of new communicable 
diseases and the reemergence or 
increased transmission of known 
communicable diseases. HHS/CDC received many comments regarding measles and the need to apply 
public health measures to prevent the 
transmission and spread of the disease. 
We note also that while measles may be 
transmissible during travel, it is not one 
of the quarantinable communicable 
diseases listed by Executive Order of the 
President. Therefore, while HHS/CDC 
may recommend post-exposure 
prophylaxis, or other ways to manage 
and prevent spread, we do not have the 
authority to apprehend, examine, 
detain, or conditionally release individuals who may have measles, nor 
those who may have been exposed. See 80 FR 16,400 (Mar. 27, 2015)(describing air travel restrictions that may be 
applicable to a passenger who would 
represent a threat to public health). HHS/CDC believes that requesting that DHS restrict the air travel of 
persons with measles is warranted 
because measles is a serious and highly 
contagious communicable disease that 
would pose a public health threat 
during travel. People exposed to 
measles who are not immune to the 
infection and have not been vaccinated 
following the exposure are advised to 
delay their travel voluntarily until they 
are no longer at risk of becoming 
infectious. A number of commenters suggested that the proposed regulations are 
unconstitutional or in violation of the 
‚‚Nuremberg Code,™™ the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
Organization (UNESCO), the Universal 
Declaration on Bioethics and Human 
Rights, the Geneva Convention, human 
rights in general, and/or civil liberties in 
general because they ostensibly 
authorize compulsory medical treatment 
without informed consent. Commenters 
also cited numerous Supreme Court 
cases purportedly in support of these 
claims, such as Mills v. Rogers, 457 U.S. 291 (1982), (curtailing the involuntary 
administration of anti-psychotic drugs 
to mental patients); Vacco v. Quill, 521 U.S. 793 (1997) (constitutionality of an 
assisted suicide ban); Washington v. Harper, 494 U.S. 210 (1990) (involuntary administration of anti- 
psychotic drugs to prison inmates); Sell 
v. United States, 539 U.S. 166 (2003)(upholding certain strict due 
process protections before any 
involuntary administration of anti- 
psychotic drugs to incarcerated 
prisoners can be made); and Canterbury 
v. Spence, 409 U.S. 1064 (1972)(duty of doctors to obtain informed consent). 
HHS/CDC disagrees and re-asserts that 
this final rule does not authorize 
compulsory medical treatment, 
including compulsory vaccination, 
without informed consent. These regulations do not violate or take away any recognized rights 
guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution or 
applicable international agreements. 
While HHS/CDC has successfully 
responded to outbreaks of 
communicable diseases, such as Ebola, these regulations will improve HHS/
CDC™s future ability to prevent the 
introduction, transmission, and spread 
of communicable diseases, through such 
mechanisms as improved reporting of 
illnesses and public health prevention 
measures at airports. While many of 
these activities have been carried out in 
the past through internal operating procedures, these regulations improve the public™s awareness and 
understanding of HHS/CDC™s activities 
to protect the public™s health. One commenter expressed concerns about religious exemptions for 
mandatory vaccination or treatment. In 
response, HHS/CDC notes that these 
regulations do not authorize compulsory 
vaccinations or medical treatment. 
While HHS/CDC will implement these 
regulations in a manner consistent with 
respecting the religious rights of 
individuals, religion is not a basis for 
exempting individuals from the 
provisions of these regulations, 
including those provisions relating to 
quarantine and isolation. One commenter raised similar concerns that the regulations may lead 
to apprehensions based on factors 
unrelated to public health such as 
wearing of religious garb or reading of 
certain newspapers. HHS/CDC agrees 
that public health actions should not be 
taken based on factors unrelated to 
protecting the public™s health and these 
regulations do not authorize such 
actions. Additionally, these regulations 
strike the appropriate balance between 
individual liberties and public health 
protection. Several commenters questioned whether quarantine and isolation may 
be carried out consistent with the 
Fourth Amendment to the U.S. 
Constitution. One commenter also 
suggested that implementation of public 
health prevention measures at airports 
would lead to ‚‚unreasonable searches 
and seizures™™ under the Fourth 
Amendment. HHS/CDC disagrees with 
these assertions. The Fourth 
Amendment protects the rights of 
persons to be free in their persons, 
houses, papers, and effects, against 
unreasonable government searches and 
seizures. HHS/CDC notes that at ports of 
entry, routine apprehensions and 
examinations related to quarantine and 
isolation may fall under the border- 
search doctrine, which provides that, in 
general, searches conducted by CBP 
officers at the border are not subject to 
the requirements of first establishing 
probable cause or obtaining a warrant. 
See United States v. Roberts, 274 F.3d 1007, 1011 (5th Cir. 2001); see also 
United States v. Bravo, 295 F.3d 1002, 1006 (9th Cir. 2002) (noting that only in circumstances involving extended 
detentions or intrusive medical 
examinations have courts required that 
border searches be premised upon 
reasonable suspicion). Similarly, 
apprehensions and examination of 
persons traveling interstate under this 
rule are authorized under the special- 
needs doctrine articulated by the VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00011Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6900 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
Supreme Court in Skinner v. Railway Labor Executives™ Ass™n, 489 U.S. 602 (1989) because of the ‚‚special need™™ in 
preventing communicable disease 
spread. Furthermore, to the extent that 
‚‚probable cause,™™ rather than ‚‚special 
needs,™™ would be the applicable Fourth 
Amendment standard, HHS/CDC 
contends that meeting the requirements 
of 42 U.S.C. 264 satisfies this standard. 
See Villanova v. Abrams, 972 F.2d 792, 795 (7th Cir.1992)(noting that probable 
cause for emergency civil commitment 
exists where ‚‚there are reasonable 
grounds for believing that the person 
seized is subject to the governing legal 
standard.™™). HHS/CDC further 
acknowledges that any searches and 
seizures of individuals must be 
reasonable under the circumstances. 
HHS/CDC reiterates that this final rule 
does not authorize compulsory medical 
treatment, including vaccination, 
without informed consent. HHS/CDC received a comment citing Missouri v. McNeely, where the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that police must 
generally obtain a warrant before 
subjecting a drunken-driving suspect to 
a blood test, and that the natural 
metabolism of blood alcohol does not 
establish a per se exigency that would 
justify a blood draw without consent. In 
response, HHS/CDC notes that courts 
have recognized that while the 
requirements for probable cause and a 
warrant generally apply in a criminal 
context, these standards do not apply 
when the government is conducting a 
non-law enforcement related activity. 
See Nat™l Treasury Employees Union v. 
Von Raab, 489 U.S. 665 (1989) 
(reaffirming the general principle that a 
government search may be conducted 
without probable cause and a warrant 
when there is a special governmental 
need, beyond the normal need for law 
enforcement). HHS/CDC reiterates that 
the special-needs doctrine articulated by 
the Supreme Court in Skinner v. Railway Labor Executives™ Ass™n., 489 
U.S. 602 (1989) provides the appropriate 
legal standard under the Fourth 
Amendment for apprehensions and 
detentions under this final rule. Several commenters also questioned whether the regulations are consistent 
with the requirements of the Fifth and 
Sixth Amendments to the U.S. 
Constitution. We note at the outset that 
the Sixth Amendment only applies to 
criminal proceedings and thus would be 
inapplicable to isolation and quarantine 
decisions which are public health 
protection measures unrelated to the 
normal needs of law enforcement. 
Furthermore, HHS/CDC asserts that this final rule is consistent with the 
requirements of due process embodied in the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Specifically, procedural 
safeguards contained in the final rule 
include: (1) A requirement for written 
orders of quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release, including 
translation or interpretation services as 
needed; (2) mandatory review of the 
Federal order after the first 72 hours; (3) 
notifying individuals through the 
written order of their right to request a 
medical review; (4) an opportunity at 
the medical review for the detained 
individual to be heard through an 
attorney or other advocate hired at their 
own expense, present experts or other 
witnesses, submit documentary or other 
evidence; and confront and cross- 
examine any government witnesses; (5) 
a decision-maker independent of those 
who authorized the original isolation, 
quarantine, or conditional release; (6) a 
written statement by the fact-finder of 
the evidence relied upon and the 
reasons for the decision; (7) 
appointment of representatives, 
including a medical representative and 
an attorney, if the individual is indigent 
and requests a medical review; and (8) 
timely notice of the preceding rights. 
See Vitek v. Jones, 445 U.S. 480 (1980); Matthews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319 (1976). HHS/CDC also received a comment that quarantine violates the guarantees 
of substantive due process under the 5th 
Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. 
HHS/CDC disagrees. In addition to a 
guarantee of fair procedures, the U.S. 
Supreme Court has interpreted the Fifth 
Amendment™s Due Process Clause as 
containing a substantive component 
barring certain arbitrary, wrongful 
government actions regardless of the 
fairness of the procedures used to 
implement them. See Zinermon v. 
Burch, 494 U.S. 113, 125 (1990). HHS/ CDC notes that the quarantine of individuals who have been exposed to 
a communicable disease, but are not yet 
capable of transmission is a well-known 
and accepted public health strategy of 
long standing. See Jacobson v. 
Massachusetts, 197 U.S. 11, 25 (1905) (recognizing the power of States to issue 
‚‚quarantine laws and health laws of 
every description™™); Compagnie 
Francaise de Navigation a Vapeur v. 
State Bd. of Health, Louisiana, 186 U.S. 
380, 396 (1902) (discussing the 1893 
Federal quarantine statute). The 
restrictions on individuals authorized 
under this regulation are justified by the 
benefits to the public health. HHS/CDC received a comment that quarantine and isolation are State police 
powers that should not be exercised at the Federal level. While HHS/CDC 
acknowledges that the States have primary authority for quarantine and isolation within their borders, the 
Federal government has an important 
and longstanding role in preventing 
communicable disease spread at ports of 
entry and interstate. This authority is 
reflected in 42 U.S.C. 264 and consistent 
with principles of Federalism. HHS/CDC received one comment stating that it should conduct a 
Federalism analysis because 
implementing the rule will require 
working with State health officials and 
resources. Under Executive Order 
13132, a Federalism analysis is required 
if a rulemaking has federalism 
implications, would limit or preempt 
State or local law, or imposes 
substantial direct compliance costs on 
State or local governments. Under such 
circumstances, a Federal agency must 
consult with State and local officials. 
Federalism implications is defined as 
having substantial direct effects on State 
or local governments, on the 
relationship between the national 
government and the States, or on the 
distribution of power and 
responsibilities among the various 
levels of government. Under 42 U.S.C. 
264(e), Federal public health regulations 
do not preempt State or local public 
health regulations, except in the event 
of a conflict with the exercise of Federal 
authority. Other than to restate this 
statutory provision, this rulemaking 
does not alter the relationship between 
the Federal government and State/local 
governments as set forth in 42 U.S.C. 
264. While HHS/CDC acknowledges that 
portions of this rule may involve HHS/ CDC ‚‚working with State health officials™™ to better coordinate public 
health responses, the rule is consistent 
with 42 U.S.C. 264(e) and there are no 
provisions that impose direct 
compliance costs on State and local 
governments. The longstanding 
provision on preemption in the event of 
a conflict with Federal authority (42 
CFR 70.2) is left unchanged by this 
rulemaking. Therefore, HHS/CDC 
believes that the rule does not warrant 
additional consultation under Executive 
Order 13132. HHS/CDC received several questions asking who would be responsible for the 
enforcement of these regulations. One 
commenter questioned whether HHS/
CDC would use ‚‚militarized police or 
create [an] armed Federal police force to 
carry out these actions.™™ As explained 
elsewhere, in keeping with current 
practice and existing law, law 
enforcement support for quarantine or 
isolation orders will generally be 
provided by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Coast Guard, or other 
Federal law enforcement programs, but VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00012Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6901 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
HHS/CDC may also accept voluntary State and local assistance in enforcing 
its Federal orders. HHS/CDC will also 
continue to enforce its regulations in a 
manner consistent with the Fourth 
Amendment and other provisions of the 
U.S. Constitution. c. Definitions 
Agreements HHS/CDC received many comments on the definition of Agreement, largely expressing confusion and concern that such agreements would not be truly 
voluntary. The intent of this provision 
was to provide HHS/CDC with an 
additional tool to facilitate cooperation 
from individuals in regard to 
recommended public health actions. In 
response to public comments, however, 
HHS/CDC has withdrawn this definition 
and will not issue the proposed 
provisions on ‚‚Agreements.™™ Airline HHS/CDC did not receive public comment on the proposed definition of Airline. However, consistent with HHS/ CDC™s intent that this definition apply to common air carriers, to improve 
clarity, we have removed the phrase 
‚‚including scheduled or public charter 
passenger operations operating in air 
commerce within the United States™™ 
and removed the reference to 49 U.S.C. 
40102(a)(3). Apprehension HHS/CDC received many comments on the proposed definition and provision regarding Apprehension; a discussion of these comments is in the 
section below titled, ‚‚Apprehension 
and Detention of Persons with 
Quarantinable Communicable 
Diseases.™™ The definition is finalized as 
proposed. Commander HHS/CDC did not receive public comment on the proposed definition of Commander. Therefore, this definition is finalized as proposed. Communicable Stage HHS/CDC received a comment seeking clarity regarding the definition of Communicable Stage. The commenter stated that the definition for 
communicable stage may unnecessarily 
restrict social distancing powers 
because it appears limited to human-to- 
human transmission and does not 
include human transmission via an 
intermediate vector, such as mosquitoes 
or flea bites. HHS/CDC disagrees. The 
definition of communicable stage 
includes transmission of an infectious 
agent either ‚‚directly or indirectly from an infected individual to another 
individual.™™ Thus, HHS/CDC clarifies 
that indirect transmission of an 
infectious agent may include 
transmission via an insect vector as 
described by the commenter. This 
definition is finalized as proposed. Conditional Release HHS/CDC received many comments on the proposed definition and provision regarding Conditional 
Release; a substantive discussion of these comments is presented in the 
section below titled Requirements 
Relating to Issuance of a Federal Order 
for Quarantine, Isolation, or Conditional 
Release. HHS/CDC is modifying the definition of Conditional Release under section 70.1 to remove the cross-reference to the 
definition of surveillance as that term 
appears in current section 71.1. The 
definition of Conditional Release under 
section 70.1 tracks the definition of 
surveillance under section 71.1 and 
means ‚‚the temporary supervision by a 
public health official (or designee) of an 
individual or group, who may have been 
exposed to a quarantinable 
communicable disease to determine the 
risk of disease spread and includes 
public health supervision through in- 
person visits, telephone, or through 
electronic or internet-based 
monitoring.™™ HHS/CDC is making this 
change to improve clarity and remove 
the need for the public to cross- 
reference the definition of surveillance 
to understand the definition of 
Conditional Release as used in section 
70.1. This definition of Conditional Release under section 71.1 is finalized as 
proposed. Contaminated Environment HHS/CDC did not receive public comment on the proposed definition of Contaminated Environment. Therefore, 
this definition is finalized as proposed. Conveyance HHS/CDC did not receive public comment on the proposed definition of Conveyance. Therefore, this definition is finalized as proposed. Electronic or Internet-Based Monitoring HHS/CDC received many comments on the proposed definition and provision regarding Electronic or 
Internet-based monitoring. We have 
modified this definition as follows: 
‚‚mechanisms or technologies allowing 
for the temporary public health 
supervision of an individual under 
conditional release and may include 
communication through electronic mail, SMS texts, video or audio conference, webcam technologies, integrated voice- 
response systems, or entry of 
information into a web-based forum; 
wearable tracking technologies; and 
other mechanisms or technologies as 
determined by the Director or 
supervising State or local health 
authority.™™ Several commenters expressed privacy concerns because conditional 
release of exposed or ill individuals may 
be accomplished over the internet or 
through electronic monitoring. Other 
commenters expressed concerns about 
privacy, having misunderstood the 
proposed rule as authorizing HHS/CDC 
to conduct invasive surveillance of 
personal communications such as 
emails, text messages, and telephone 
calls. Commenters also expressed 
concerns related to the use of webcams 
and wearable tracking technologies as 
an option for monitoring of exposed 
people. One association viewed this 
proposed provision as an expansion of 
CDC™s ‚‚electronic monitoring of 
personal information, under the guise of 
protecting the public against rare, 
isolated outbreaks of disease.™™ HHS/CDC appreciates the opportunity to address these concerns. CDC™s intent 
was to describe mechanisms that HHS/ 
CDC or other public health authorities 
can use to communicate with 
individuals for the purpose of 
conducting monitoring following 
exposure to a quarantinable 
communicable disease. These 
mechanisms are intended as alternatives 
to in-person interviews because of the 
inconvenience and logistical problems 
that may arise when meeting in-person. During the 2014Œ2016 Ebola response, HHS/CDC recommended ‚‚active 
monitoring™™ defined as daily 
communication between public health 
authorities and the individuals being 
monitored. HHS/CDC did not specify 
how this communication should occur, 
and health departments used a variety 
of electronic technologies for this 
purpose including those listed in the 
regulation. HHS/CDC also 
recommended ‚‚direct active 
monitoring™™ for people with certain 
higher levels of exposure. This involved 
having a public health official check in 
with the person through direct 
observation rather than relying on phone calls or electronic 
communications. Webcams were used 
by some health departments as an 
alternative to in-person visits to observe 
the person taking his or her 
temperature. The webcam was only 
operational during this scheduled 
public health ‚‚visit.™™ The use of 
webcams proved convenient for both VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00013Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6902 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
the health departments and the people being monitored, especially if the 
people lived in remote areas. Webcams 
are also used routinely by health 
departments for ‚‚directly observed 
therapy™™ for diseases like tuberculosis 
(TB), in order to watch patients take 
their TB medications. HHS/CDC has 
clarified the regulatory text to state that 
these technologies will be used for 
communicating with the individual and 
not as a means of monitoring the 
individual™s personal communications. One commenter asked whether HHS/ CDC would ‚‚assist with payment for 
internet services™™ if webcam 
communications was required. In 
keeping with current practice, if an 
individual does not have access to 
internet services, HHS/CDC may use 
alternative methods to assist with 
communication, such as the issuance of 
a cellular phone. Some organizations 
also expressed concerns about the use of 
technologies such as cellular phones or 
wearable tracking technologies for the 
purpose of electronic monitoring. HHS/ 
CDC acknowledges that the use of 
wearable tracking technology may be 
necessary in rare situations when a 
person does not comply with the 
required monitoring or when it is 
necessary to know the physical 
whereabouts of the person to ensure that 
they are not in a public place. While 
HHS/CDC acknowledges that public 
health surveillance of ill or exposed 
individuals through electronic 
monitoring may raise some privacy 
concerns, HHS/CDC believes that 
protecting the public™s health outweighs 
these concerns. HHS/CDC is committed to protecting the privacy of personally identifiable 
information collected and maintained 
under the Privacy Act of 1974. As 
detailed in the preamble of the proposed 
rule, on December 13, 2007, HHS/CDC 
published a notice of a new system of 
records under the Privacy Act of 1974 
for its conduct of activities under this 
final rule (72 FR 70867). HHS/CDC 
accepted public comment on its 
proposed new system of records at that 
time. As required under the Privacy Act, 
HHS/CDC described in its notice the 
proposed system of records, the purpose 
for the collection of the system data, the 
proposed routine uses (i.e., disclosures of system data that are compatible to the 
purpose for the data collection), the 
benefits and need for the routine use of 
this data, our agency™s policies, 
procedures, and restrictions on the 
routine use disclosure of this 
information, and, most importantly, our 
safeguards to prevent its unauthorized 
use. Under this system of records, CDC will only release data collected under 
this rule and subject to the Privacy Act 
to authorized users as legally permitted. 
HHS/CDC will take precautionary 
measures including implementing the 
necessary administrative, technical and 
physical controls to minimize the risks 
of unauthorized access to medical and 
other private records. In addition, HHS/ 
CDC will make disclosures from the 
system only with the consent of the 
subject individual or, in accordance 
with the routine uses published at 72 FR 
70867, or as allowed under an exception 
to the Privacy Act. Furthermore, HHS/ 
CDC will apply the protections of the 
SORN to all travelers regardless of 
citizenship or nationality. Finally, such 
records will be stored and maintained in 
keeping with the official Records 
Control Schedule as set forth by the 
National Archives and Records 
Administration. For more information, 
please see https://www.archives.gov/
records-mgmt/rcs. Ill Person We have modified the definition of Ill person under 71.1 to include a person who ‚‚(b)(2) Has a fever that has 
persisted for more than 48 hours; or 
(b)(3) Has acute gastroenteritis, which 
means either diarrhea, defined as three 
or more episodes of loose stools in a 24- 
hour period or what is above normal for 
the individual, or vomiting 
accompanied by one or more of the 
following: One or more episodes of 
loose stools in a 24-hour period, 
abdominal cramps, headache, muscle 
aches, or fever (temperature of 100.4°F [38 °C] or greater).™™ This language was quoted verbatim in the preamble of the 
NPRM at 81 FR 54305 but was 
inadvertently omitted from the 
proposed regulatory text. HHS/CDC received comments regarding the updated definition of Ill 
person which flight crews use to report to the CDC occurrences of illnesses in 
passengers or crew during travel. 
Specifically, commenters expressed 
concern that ‚‚non-medical personnel™™ 
such as flight attendants would report 
such observations; others questioned 
whether the definition is too broad and 
may result in over-reporting of non- 
threatening illnesses; others worried 
that it could lead to unnecessary 
apprehensions of individuals. One 
commenter claimed to be ‚‚chemical 
sensitive,™™ and worried that he or she 
may be penalized for having a reaction 
from sitting next to someone on a plane 
wearing a ‚‚strong fragrance.™™ HHS/CDC 
thanks the commenters for considering 
the proposal and providing feedback. HHS/CDC clarifies that the purpose of the ill person definition is to align with current global and accepted detection and reporting practices so that onboard 
deaths and illnesses are reported by 
airlines and, where necessary, 
investigated by HHS/CDC. We note that 
the ill person definition in this final rule is consistent with the internationally 
recognized and accepted illness 
reporting guidelines published by the 
International Civil Aviation 
Organization (ICAO). This practice is 
not new, but has been used successfully 
for many years by aircraft and vessel 
crews to assist public health officials in 
preventing further transmission and 
spread of communicable disease. HHS/CDC also does not intend to apprehend individuals based solely on 
their meeting the definition of an ill 
person. The purpose of an illness report is to allow trained HHS/CDC public 
health and medical officers to determine 
whether an illness occurring onboard a 
flight or voyage necessitates a public 
health response. In contrast, an 
apprehension of an individual is based 
on a variety of criteria in addition to an 
illness report including: Clinical 
manifestations, contact or suspected 
contact with infected individuals, host 
susceptibility, travel to affected 
countries or places, or other evidence of 
exposure to or infection with a 
quarantinable communicable disease. 
Thus, HHS/CDC disagrees that the ill 
person definition will lead to 
unnecessary apprehensions of 
individuals. Several commenters noted that the symptoms listed in HHS/CDC™s 
definition of an ill person are common 
symptoms of many non-threatening 
conditions, and thus questioned their 
inclusion in the definition. HHS/CDC 
appreciates the opportunity to respond 
to these concerns. The symptoms listed 
in HHS/CDC™s ill person definition are provided for airlines and vessels to 
report to HHS/CDC so that HHS/CDC 
can make a public health risk 
assessment; the symptoms alone would not result in issuance of a public health 
order. In making such an assessment, HHS/CDC medical and public health 
officers consider the symptoms as well 
as the medical history of the person and 
any possible exposures that could indicate that the person may be infected 
with a quarantinable communicable 
disease. A few commenters stated that the definition of ill person appears to expand the scope of HHS/CDC™s 
authority beyond the list of 
quarantinable communicable diseases 
specified through an Executive Order of 
the President. HHS/CDC disagrees. The VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00014Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6903 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
purpose of the ill person definition is to help facilitate the identification, 
particularly by flight crews, of 
communicable diseases of public health 
concern. Thus, HHS/CDC has defined ill 
person in such a way that the term may be understood by non-medically trained 
crewmembers. While the reporting of an 
ill person onboard a flight may trigger 
a public health evaluation by a trained 
quarantine officer in consultation with 
an HHS/CDC medical officer, such 
reporting does not expand the basis 
upon which an ill person may be subject 
to apprehension, detention, or 
conditional release. As noted by the 
commenter, such public health actions 
are limited to those quarantinable 
communicable diseases specified 
through an Executive Order of the 
President (e.g., cholera, diphtheria, infectious tuberculosis, yellow fever, 
viral hemorrhagic fevers, Severe Acute 
Respiratory Syndromes, and pandemic 
influenza). A public health association suggested that any changes to the list of signs and 
symptoms within the definition of ill 
person should be made available for public comment. HHS/CDC assumes 
this comment is in reference to section 
(3) of the definition which provides for 
reporting of ‚‚symptoms or other 
indications of communicable disease, as 
the HHS/CDC may announce through 
posting of a notice in the Federal 
Register.™™ HHS/CDC appreciates the 
opportunity to clarify the purpose of 
this section. Section (3) of the ill person 
definition is intended to apply only to 
new, emerging, and imminent threats to 
public health. We expect it will only be 
relied on in emergency situations where 
a quick response is required to protect 
the public. Other circumstances, where 
the list of signs and symptoms may 
change due to evolving science or 
technology, will be made available for 
public comment, through a similar 
process as this rulemakingŠNotices in 
the Federal RegisterŠand may also request input from the public. A number of commenters noted that symptoms listed in HHS/CDC™s 
definition of an ill person are common 
symptoms of many conditions, 
particularly ‚‚appears obviously unwell™™ 
which many commenters requested be 
removed from the definition. HHS/CDC 
appreciates the opportunity to clarify 
that, with the exception of acute 
gastroenteritis on vessels, HHS/CDC 
only requires reporting of an ill traveler 
on an aircraft or vessel if fever 
‚‚accompanied by one or more of the 
following™™ other symptoms listed are present. Therefore, as an example, headache alone would not be sufficient to require reporting, but rather fever plus headache, fever plus cough, fever plus persistent vomiting, fever plus 
persistent diarrhea, etc. These 
symptoms combined with fever are 
frequently seen in communicable 
diseases that could pose a public health 
risk to others during travel. Because a 
person with fever who also appears 
obviously unwell could have a serious 
communicable disease, HHS/CDC feels 
it is appropriate to retain this symptom, 
and further notes that its inclusion 
better aligns with Note 1 to the 
guidelines set forth by the International 
Civil Aviation Organization in 
paragraph 8.15 of Annex 9 to the 
Convention on International Civil 
Aviation. One public health organization commented that the definition of ill 
person was broad and would be better issued through agency guidance rather 
than a rule. In response, HHS/CDC notes 
that the existing regulation contains an 
outdated and overly narrow definition 
of ill person that does not reflect current knowledge of communicable diseases, 
and that the reporting of ill travelers has 
been managed through a combination of 
regulation and agency guidance. This 
combination of ‚‚required™™ and 
‚‚requested™™ reporting has proven 
confusing to some airline and vessel 
employees and this rule seeks to 
mitigate such confusion by including all 
relevant symptom clusters in the rule. 
Further, HHS/CDC notes that the change 
in the ill person definition better aligns 
with guidelines set forth by the 
International Civil Aviation 
Organization and is supported in 
comments received from the airline 
industry. One public health organization commented on the different definitions 
of ill person for aircraft and vessels and recommended that the definitions be 
combined and not depend on the mode 
of transport. In response, HHS/CDC 
wishes to point out three crucial 
differences between aircraft and vessels 
which HHS/CDC feels justify the 
different definitions. One difference, 
additionally noted by the commenting 
organization, is the difference in time 
that a traveler spends on an aircraft and 
a vessel which makes the time frame (24 
hours) specified in the definition of 
acute gastroenteritis for vessels relevant 
and minimizes the reporting of travelers 
with a single episode of loose stool that 
subsequently resolves, a common 
occurrence. The second is the high risk 
of spread of gastrointestinal infections 
onboard vessels that is unlikely to occur 
on aircraft; for this reason, reporting of 
diarrheal illnesses on aircraft includes the presence of fever which is more 
likely to indicate a serious communicable disease, whereas the definition on vessels includes diarrheal 
illness without fever to allow for the 
reporting of viral gastrointestinal 
illnesses that typically do not cause 
fever but have been known to cause 
large outbreaks on cruise vessels. The 
third difference is the presence onboard 
cruise vessels of medical facilities 
capable of making a diagnosis of 
pneumonia which allows the inclusion 
of pneumonia in the vessel definition. 
In all other respects, the definitions are 
the same. HHS/CDC adds that 
combining the definitions would be 
confusing to industry professionals 
responsible for conducting this 
reporting. One public health organization provided a recommendation to modify 
the description of the ‚‚rash™™ component 
in the definition of ill person to ensure 
that the term fully encompassed the 
range of potential skin rash symptoms. 
The organization™s recommendation for 
revisions was as follows: ‚‚The 
individual has areas on the skin that are 
red or purple, flat or bumps; with 
multiple red bumps; red, flat spots; or 
blister-like bumps filled with fluid or 
pus that are intact, draining, or partly 
crusted over; or dry and scaling patches. 
The rash may be discrete or run 
together, and may include one area of 
the body, such as the face, or more than 
one area.™™ HHS/CDC responds that it will not change the regulatory text of the ill 
person definition with this language because we are concerned that this 
might add too much complexity to the 
regulatory definition. However, 
consistent with the regulatory definition 
of ‚‚ill person,™™ HHS/CDC will update 
its reporting guidance for aircraft and 
vessels to include this revised 
description. Current guidance may be 
found at: http://www.cdc.gov/
quarantine/air/reporting-deaths-illness/
guidance-reporting-onboard-deaths- 
illnesses.html. An air industry commenter suggested another change to the ill person 
definition. The proposed definition 
included ‚‚headache with stiff neck,™™ 
and the commenter suggested that this 
be modified to ‚‚severe headache of 
recent onset with stiff neck.™™ While 
HHS/CDC will not change the regulatory 
definition of ill person to accommodate 
this change, HHS/CDC believes this is a 
useful modification to make in ill 
person reporting guidance to aircraft 
and vessels. Incubation Period HHS/CDC did not receive any comments on the proposed definition of Incubation period. However, upon a VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00015Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6904 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
review of the definition, we have decided that the definition should more 
closely track the definition of 
Precommunicable stage. For 
quarantinable communicable diseases, 
the Incubation period is defined as the Precommunicable stage of the disease. 
Thus, we have determined that the two 
definitions should more closely align. A 
substantive discussion of comments 
received concerning the definition of 
Precommunicable stage appears below. Accordingly, we have modified the definition of Incubation period to add 
‚‚or, if signs and symptoms do not 
appear, the latest date signs and 
symptoms could reasonably be expected 
to appear.™™ Other aspects of this 
definition are finalized as proposed. Indigent HHS/CDC received comments relating to the proposed definition of Indigent which is used to determine whether a 
detained individual qualifies for 
appointment at government expense of 
representatives to assist him/her during 
a medical review. One comment from a 
public health department suggested 
raising the threshold for indigent status 
to at least 200% of the applicable 
poverty guideline. HHS/CDC agrees and 
has made this change in the final 
regulation. One commenter opposed including a definition for indigents and indicated 
that HHS/CDC should assume all costs 
whenever an individual is placed into 
Federal isolation or quarantine. HHS/ 
CDC disagrees that assuming such costs 
without regard to indigence is necessary 
or appropriate. Other substantive comments relating to the appointment at government 
expense of representatives to assist 
detained indigent individuals during a 
medical review are discussed below. Master or Operator HHS/CDC did not receive any comments on the definition of Master or operator. Accordingly, this definition is finalized as proposed. Medical Examination In response to comments received regarding medical examinations under sections 70.12 and 71.36, we have 
modified the definition of Medical 
Examination to indicate that the health worker conducting the assessment must 
be ‚‚licensed.™™ Comments regarding 
sections 70.12 and 71.36 are addressed 
below. HHS/CDC received a comment regarding the definition of Medical 
Examination. The commenter stated that the definition of medical 
examination should include a mental health assessment because a mental 
health condition may impact an 
individual™s appreciation of his or her 
public health risk to others. While HHS/ 
CDC acknowledges that a mental health 
assessment may be useful as part of an 
individual™s medical care and treatment 
and that such an assessment may be 
ordered as needed by a treating 
clinician, HHS/CDC declines to make 
such assessments a formal part of the 
medical examination process. 
Specifically, because a mental health 
assessment is not generally needed to 
diagnose or confirm the presence or 
extent of infection with a quarantinable 
communicable disease, HHS/CDC 
disagrees that it is necessary or 
appropriate to require such an 
assessment as part of a Federal public 
health order. Medical Representative HHS/CDC received several comments relating to the proposed definitions of Medical Representative and Medical Reviewer as well as the potential use of HHS/CDC employees as representatives 
or medical reviewers. One commenter 
suggested that it would be less 
problematic for HHS/CDC to allow and 
pay for outside participants to serve in 
these capacities. First, HHS/CDC notes 
that the definition of Medical 
representative has been changed to Representatives and revised as detailed below. HHS/CDC disagrees with this 
comment and notes that the definition 
of both Representatives and Medical reviewer would in fact allow for the appointment of non-HHS/CDC 
employees in these capacities as 
suggested by the commenter. For this 
reason, both Representatives and Medical reviewer are broadly defined in 
terms of the occupational qualifications 
of these individuals. HHS/CDC also 
does not consider it problematic to rely 
on internal reviewers and notes that it 
is not unusual, for instance, for 
hospitals to rely on internal decision- 
makers when determining whether to 
commit a mental health patient on an 
emergency basis. HHS/CDC received a comment that the ‚‚definition of medical exemption is 
not apparent.™™ In response, HHS/CDC 
notes that no clarification of what is 
meant by ‚‚medical exemption™™ is 
provided by the commenter and that 
HHS/CDC did not propose adding such 
a definition. While these regulations do 
not authorize compulsory vaccination or 
medical treatment, there is no 
recognized ‚‚medical exemption™™ from 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release and HHS/CDC declines to create 
one. Non-Invasive HHS/CDC received several comments concerning the definition of Non- invasive, including support from a public health association regarding the 
definition. However, several individuals disagreed with the proposed definition. 
In response to public comment that the 
definition of ‚‚non-invasive™™ allowed 
too much physical contact between the 
individual and public health officer, 
HHS/CDC has replaced ‚‚physical™™ with 
‚‚visual™™ and removed ‚‚auscultation; 
external palpation; external 
measurement of blood pressure™™ from 
the definition. While HHS/CDC 
continues to believe that these 
procedures qualify as Non-invasive 
under the definition, after considering 
public comment and a review of 
standard operating procedures, HHS/ 
CDC finds such procedures to be 
unlikely to be conducted during a 
public health risk assessment. Such 
procedures may be conducted at a port 
of entry by emergency medical service 
personnel as part of a medical 
assessment to determine the need for 
emergency medical care. We also 
modified the definition to clarify that 
the individual conducting the public 
health risk assessment will be a ‚‚public 
health worker.™™ Public health workers 
are individuals who have education and 
training in the field of public health. One commenter mentioned that the new definition of Non-invasive states that the HHS/CDC could order 
laboratory testing under certain 
conditions. The commenter further 
asserted that forced laboratory testing, 
without the option of quarantine 
instead, is an invasive measure, and 
questioned how this could be in line 
with the concept of non-invasive. HHS/ 
CDC responds that the definition of non- 
invasive applies to procedures 
conducted during a public health risk 
assessment at a port of entry and that 
this definition does not authorize 
forcible or invasive procedures to 
extract human biological samples for 
laboratory testing. Should laboratory 
testing be needed for a person 
reasonably believed to be infected with 
a quarantinable communicable disease, 
such testing would be done as part of a 
medical examination conducted at a 
healthcare facility and performed with 
the patient™s informed consent. HHS/ 
CDC has added language to the 
regulatory text requiring that the 
Director advise individuals of their right 
to have medical testing and examination 
conducted by an authorized and 
licensed health worker and with prior 
informed consent. While this regulation 
does not authorize forcible testing, VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00016Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6905 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
HHS/CDC may require laboratory test results demonstrating that a 
symptomatic individual is no longer 
infectious prior to rescinding a Federal 
isolation order. Precommunicable Stage HHS/CDC received comments relating to the definition of Precommunicable stage. One commenter suggested that persons in the ‚‚precommunicable 
stage™™ of a quarantinable communicable 
disease pose no direct threat to the 
public™s health. A public health 
organization also stated that this 
definition should not apply to non- 
symptomatic people who have been 
exposed to Ebola. HHS/CDC disagrees 
with both comments. For instance, a 
patient diagnosed with multidrug- 
resistant or extensively drug-resistant 
tuberculosis who is not currently 
infectious, but who has not been 
adequately treated and is thus at high 
risk for relapse would be considered to 
be in the ‚‚precommunicable stage™™ of 
the disease and pose a direct threat to 
the public™s health. Similarly, an 
individual who is reasonably believed 
to have been exposed to Ebola poses a 
direct threat. Several public health organizations additionally expressed concerns 
regarding the use of the 
‚‚precommunicable stage™™ definition to 
justify quarantine of healthcare workers 
caring for patients with quarantinable 
communicable diseases such as Ebola or 
severe acute respiratory syndromes, 
including healthcare workers providing 
care in the United States or in other countries. One such organization further 
requested clarification of whether the 
rule provides for the needs and 
protection of healthcare workers who 
voluntarily self-quarantine while 
providing care for patients with the 
quarantinable communicable diseases 
noted above. In response, HHS/CDC states that it does not recommend quarantine or 
occupational restrictions of healthcare 
workers who follow recommended 
infection control precautions while 
providing care for patients with 
quarantinable communicable diseases. 
Healthcare workers who do not follow 
infection control precautions or who 
have had unprotected exposures to 
patients with a quarantinable 
communicable disease may be subject to 
quarantine or occupational restrictions; 
these individuals would be afforded the 
same due process protections as other 
exposed individuals. Several commenters also questioned CDC™s proposed definition for 
Precommunicable stage stating that it 
may result in an apprehension of an individual who displays no symptoms of a communicable illness. In response, 
HHS/CDC states that it has defined 
Precommunicable stage consistent with 
the public health practice of quarantine. 
Quarantine refers to the public health 
practice of separating and restricting the 
movement of individuals who are 
reasonably believed to have been 
exposed to a communicable disease, but 
are not yet ill. In contrast, isolation 
refers to the public health practice of 
separating and restricting the movement 
of individuals who have been exposed 
to a communicable disease and are 
symptomatic from those who are not 
sick. The definition of Precommunicable stage is finalized as proposed. Public Health Emergency HHS/CDC received several comments relating to the definition of Public 
health emergency. One commenter 
stated that use of the term is duplicative 
and unnecessary because the term is 
used elsewhere in the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d) and 
appears in State-based legislation based 
on the Model State Emergency Health 
Powers Act. This commenter suggested 
that to avoid confusion the term should 
be renamed ‚‚Public Health Exigency.™™ 
HHS/CDC disagrees. Section 361(d) of 
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
264(d)(1)) authorizes the apprehension 
and examination of individuals 
traveling interstate who are in the 
‚‚precommunicable stage™™ of a 
quarantinable communicable disease, 
but only if the disease ‚‚would be likely 
to cause a public health emergency if 
transmitted to other individuals.™™ Thus, 
section 361(d) is unique and differs 
from how the term public health 
emergency is used in other statutes or 
provisions of the Public Health Service 
Act because it authorizes application of 
specific public health measures (apprehension and examination) to 
specific individuals (those in the 
precommunicable stage of a 
quarantinable communicable disease), 
but only if the disease would be likely 
to cause a public health emergency. 
Thus, HHS/CDC considers it essential to 
define public health emergency because 
the existence of such an emergency is a 
necessary prerequisite to the 
apprehension and examination of 
individuals in the precommunicable 
stage of a quarantinable communicable 
disease. This commenter also suggested that the definition of public health 
emergency contains an oversight 
because it does not mention the 
potential for an infectious condition 
being highly likely to cause ‚‚short- or long-term disability.™™ HHS/CDC disagrees because the definition 
includes infectious diseases that are 
highly likely to cause ‚‚serious illness™™ 
if not properly controlled. HHS/CDC 
clarifies that ‚‚short- or long-term 
disability™™ caused by an infectious agent 
would be considered a ‚‚serious illness.™™ This commenter further suggested that in addition to referencing a public 
health emergency declaration by the 
HHS Secretary, the definition should 
also include similar declarations by the 
President under the Stafford Act or 
under the National Emergencies Act. 
HHS/CDC disagrees. We note first that 
the definition of public health 
emergency is not limited to those 
emergencies declared by the HHS 
Secretary. Second, in the event of a 
man-made or natural disaster that also 
affects public health, the HHS Secretary 
may issue a separate declaration under 
the Public Health Service Act as was 
done in response to the terrorist attacks 
of September 11, 2001 and in response 
to Hurricane Katrina. Thus, HHS/CDC 
does not see a need to also reference 
Presidential declarations as suggested 
by the commenter. This commenter also requested clarification concerning whether the 
World Health Organization™s (WHO) 
declaration of a Public Health 
Emergency of International Concern 
(PHEIC) could continue to serve as the 
basis for a ‚‚public health emergency™™ if 
the President or HHS Secretary 
disagreed with the declaration of a 
PHEIC on legal, epidemiologic, or policy 
grounds. In response, HHS/CDC notes 
that the scenario proposed by the 
commenter is unlikely, but that CDC 
remains a component of HHS, subject to 
the authority and supervision of the 
HHS Secretary and President of the 
United States. HHS/CDC also received a comment objecting to referencing the WHO™s 
declaration of a Public Health 
Emergency of International Concern 
(PHEIC) in the definition of ‚‚public 
health emergency™™ because this 
ostensibly relinquishes U.S. sovereignty. 
HHS/CDC disagrees. By including 
references to a PHEIC, HHS/CDC is not 
constraining its actions or makings its 
actions subject to the dictates of the 
WHO. Rather, the declaration or 
notification of a PHEIC is only one way for HHS/CDC to define when the 
precommunicable stage of a 
quarantinable communicable disease 
may be likely to cause a public health 
emergency if transmitted to other 
individuals. While HHS/CDC will give 
consideration to the WHO™s declaration 
of a PHEIC or the circumstances under 
which a PHEIC may be notified to the VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00017Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6906 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
WHO, HHS/CDC will continue to make its own independent decisions 
regarding when a quarantinable 
communicable disease may be likely to 
cause a public health emergency if 
transmitted to other individuals. Thus, 
HHS/CDC disagrees that referencing the 
WHO determination of a PHEIC results 
in any relinquishment of U.S. 
sovereignty. The International Health Regulations are an international legal instrument 
that sets out the roles of WHO and State 
parties in identifying, responding to, 
and sharing information about public 
health emergencies of international 
concern. HHS/CDC believes that it 
would be unlikely for the United States 
to formally object to the WHO™s 
declaration of a PHEIC, but that CDC 
remains a component of HHS, subject to 
the authority and supervision of the 
HHS Secretary and President of the 
United States. Also regarding the definition of ‚‚public health emergency,™™ one public 
health association expressed concern 
that any disease considered to be a public health emergency may qualify it 
as quarantinable. Another commenter 
noted that some PHEICs ‚‚most certainly 
do not qualify as public health 
emergencies™™ under the proposed 
definition. HHS/CDC appreciates the 
opportunity to clarify. Only those 
communicable diseases listed by 
Executive Order of the President may 
qualify as quarantinable communicable 
diseases. For example, Zika virus 
infection, which although the current 
epidemic was declared a PHEIC by 
WHO, is not a quarantinable 
communicable disease. The definition 
of Public health emergency is finalized as proposed. Public Health Prevention Measures HHS/CDC received one comment relating to the definition of Public health prevention measures. The commenter stated that the second use of 
‚‚and other non-invasive means™™ should 
be deleted from the definition of public 
health prevention measures as 
redundant. HHS/CDC disagrees because 
‚‚observation, questioning, review of 
travel documents, and records review™™ 
as cited in the definition appears to 
materially differ from ‚‚other non- 
invasive means™™ that may be used as a 
part of public health prevention 
measures such as temperature checks, 
visual observation, or visual 
examination of the ear, nose, or mouth. 
Accordingly, HHS/CDC believes that the 
updated definition provides greater 
clarity as written. Further information, 
including a discussion regarding 
comments received on these proposed provisions, is discussed in the section below titled Public Health Prevention 
Measures to Detect Communicable 
Disease. The definition is finalized as proposed. Qualifying Stage HHS/CDC received several comments relating to Qualifying stage. Several commenters, including one public 
health organization, expressed concern 
that the definition was either too vague, 
too broad, or too confusing. One 
commenter suggested that the definition 
for Qualifying stage is confusing because it splits communicable diseases 
into a ‚‚precommunicable stage™™ and a 
‚‚communicable stage™™ and that a 
communicable disease would not be on 
the list of Federal quarantinable 
communicable diseases if its spread did 
not already have some potential to cause 
a public health emergency. In response, 
HHS/CDC notes that the term 
‚‚qualifying stage™™ is defined under 42 
U.S.C. 264(d)(2) to include both a 
‚‚precommunicable stage™™ and a 
‚‚communicable stage™™ and that this 
definition explicitly references diseases 
‚‚likely to cause a public health 
emergency.™™ Thus, while HHS/CDC may 
clarify and explain statutory terms 
through regulation, it has no authority 
to change the language of the statute. One public health organization recommended that HHS/CDC policy 
implementing the Qualifying stage 
definition acknowledge that a one-size 
fits all protocol is not appropriate 
because different diseases have different 
transmission patterns and the need for 
isolation and quarantine may differ. 
HHS/CDC agrees that the need for 
isolation and quarantine may differ 
based on the disease and adds that it 
conducts a public health risk 
assessment before issuing Federal 
public health orders. For example, HHS/ 
CDC does not typically issue Federal public health orders for cholera, a 
quarantinable communicable disease as 
defined by Executive Order because the 
sanitation infrastructure in the United 
States makes cholera transmission 
unlikely. HHS/CDC further notes that it 
typically conducts the public health risk 
assessment in coordination with the 
State or local health department of 
jurisdiction before issuing a Federal 
public health order. Public health organizations and other commenters cautioned against 
apprehending individuals or issuing 
public health orders when the risk of 
communicable disease spread during 
the precommunicable period is low. 
HHS/CDC agrees and further adds that 
it will typically conduct a public health 
risk assessment in coordination with State and local public health officials to ensure that any restrictions imposed on 
an individual are commensurate with 
the degree of risk and using the least 
restrictive means available. The definition of Qualifying stage is finalized as proposed. Reasonably Believed To Be Infected, as Applied to Individuals HHS/CDC received several comments regarding the definition of Reasonably 
believed to be infected, as applied to an 
individual. Several public health organizations expressed concern there 
could be undue burden placed on 
healthcare facilities or health 
departments by greatly expanding the 
number of individuals requiring health 
screening, medical examination and 
testing, or placed under Federal 
isolation of quarantine orders. HHS/ 
CDC disagrees. This rule represents a 
codification of current practice and 
decisions regarding the need for medical 
examination of individuals suspected of 
being infected with a quarantinable 
communicable disease, including 
during an outbreak or public health 
emergency, will generally be based on 
published disease-specific case 
definitions for PUIs (persons under 
investigation) that incorporate clinical 
and epidemiologic factors. Furthermore, 
decisions regarding the issuance of 
Federal public health orders or medical 
examination for a suspected 
quarantinable communicable disease 
would typically be made in 
coordination with a State or local health 
department of jurisdiction. Therefore, HHS/CDC does not anticipate placing an 
undue burden on healthcare facilities or 
health departments as a result of these 
definitions. One commenter stated that the Reasonably believed to be infected, as 
applied to an individual definition 
allows for apprehension, quarantine, or 
isolation based solely on reasonable 
inferences that the person was exposed 
somehow or in some way to infectious 
agents. HHS/CDC disagrees because as 
stated in the definition reasonable 
inferences may only be drawn from 
‚‚specific articulable facts™™ that an 
individual has been exposed to an 
infectious agent such as through 
‚‚contact with an infected person or an 
infected person™s bodily fluids, a 
contaminated environment, or through 
an intermediate host or vector.™™ Thus, 
HHS/CDC disagrees that this standard 
does not comport with standard public 
health practice. HHS/CDC received a comment from a public health agency expressing concern 
that travel to other countries where 
transmission of a quarantinable VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00018Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6907 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
communicable disease has likely occurred would be the sole basis upon 
which HHS/CDC would form a 
reasonable belief that an individual may 
be infected with a quarantinable 
communicable disease. In response, 
HHS/CDC clarifies that travel to other 
countries was simply used as an 
illustrative example. The decision to 
place an individual into isolation or 
quarantine will ordinarily be based on 
several factors, including travel, contact 
with an infected person or an infected person™s bodily fluids, host 
susceptibility, and clinical 
manifestations. HHS/CDC believes that 
this definition is clear and that no 
further changes are necessary. The definition of Reasonably believed to be infected as applied to an 
individual is finalized as proposed. Secretary HHS/CDC has added a definition for Secretary meaning the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) or 
any other officer or employee of that 
Department to whom the authority 
involved has been delegated. We note 
that while the NPRM did not propose 
this definition, the NPRM referenced the 
Secretary in defining Public Health Emergency. Thus, HHS/CDC considers it useful to also define the term Secretary. After consideration of comments regarding Definitions, HHS/CDC has made the following changes in the final 
rule: •The definition of Agreements has been withdrawn. •The definition of Conditional Release under section 70.1 has been modified to remove the internal cross- 
reference to the definition of 
surveillance under section 71.1. The 
definition of Conditional Release under 
section 70.1 has been further modified 
to align with the definition of 
surveillance under section 71.1 and 
means ‚‚the temporary supervision by a 
public health official (or designee) of an 
individual or group, who may have been 
exposed to a quarantinable 
communicable disease to determine the 
risk of disease spread and includes 
public health supervision through in- 
person visits, telephone, or through 
electronic or internet-based 
monitoring.™™ •The definition of Electronic or internet-based monitoring has been 
modified to indicate ‚‚communication 
through™™ such means, and include 
‚‚audio™™ conference. •The definition of Incubation period has been modified to add ‚‚or, if signs 
and symptoms do not appear, the latest 
date signs and symptoms could 
reasonably be expected to appear.™™ This aligns the definition with the Precommunicable stage definition. •The definition of Indigent has been modified to increase the threshold to 
200% of the applicable poverty 
guidelines. •The definition of Medical Examination has been modified to indicate that the health worker 
conducting the assessment must be 
‚‚licensed.™™ •The definition of Medical Representative has been changed to Representatives and now includes in addition to the appointment of a 
medical professional, the appointment of ‚‚an attorney who is knowledgeable of 
public health practices.™™ •The definition of Non-invasive has been modified to (1) replace ‚‚physical 
examination™™ with ‚‚visual 
examination,™™ (2) specify that the 
individual performing the assessment 
must be a ‚‚public health worker (i.e., an individual with education and training 
in the field of public health)™™ and (3) 
remove ‚‚auscultation, external 
palpation, external measurement of 
blood pressure.™™ •A definition for Secretary has been added and means ‚‚the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services (HHS) or 
any other officer or employee of that 
Department to whom the authority 
involved has been delegated.™™ d. Public Health Prevention Measures To Detect Communicable Disease HHS/CDC received support from commenters on screening individuals 
entering the U.S. from parts of the world 
where highly infectious diseases are 
common. One such commenter 
requested to know the criteria HHS/CDC 
uses when deciding whether to detain 
an individual. Another commenter 
stated that travel history ‚‚should be a 
prerequisite for Federal orders to 
quarantine™™ and ‚‚medical exam should 
be a prerequisite for Federal orders to 
isolate.™™ HHS/CDC thanks these 
commenters and welcomes the 
opportunity to explain this process. HHS/CDC™s decision to detain an individual is based on several criteria, 
including: Clinical manifestations: Signs 
and symptoms consistent with those of 
a quarantinable communicable disease; 
known or suspected contact with cases, 
i.e., patients either confirmed or suspected to be infected with a 
quarantinable communicable disease; 
epidemiologic information/evidence 
(travel history, exposure to animals); 
other documentary or physical evidence 
in the individual™s possession, such as 
a physician™s note documenting 
infection with or medication for 
treatment of a quarantinable disease; and/or public health authorities having notified HHS/CDC that the individual is 
known or suspected to be infected with 
a quarantinable communicable disease 
and likely non-adherent with public 
health recommendations. HHS/CDC has modified paragraph (b) of the provisions relating to public 
health prevention measures to detect 
communicable disease (§§70.10 and 

71.20) to include information about 
‚‚known or possible exposure,™™ in 
response to comments requesting 
further clarity of CDC™s criteria. One organization from the airline industry was generally supportive of 
70.10 and 71.20, public health 
prevention measures to detect 
communicable disease, and requested 
that any measures, such as screening, occur prior to individuals boarding an 
aircraft, and preferably prior to arrival at 
the gate. HHS/CDC thanks these 
commenters for their support. In 
response, while an operational plan for 
each location has not yet been finalized, 
HHS/CDC expects such measures to 
occur prior to the boarding of an 
aircraft, and to the extent possible, prior 
to arrival at the gate. One airline 
organization insisted that airline 
operators should not be financially 
responsible for any costs associated 
with screening. HHS/CDC responds that 
it does not expect airlines and airline 
operators to assume direct costs 
associated with public health screening, 
such as providing additional personnel 
to conduct the screening. However, 
indirect costs such as missed flights of 
passengers who are detained may occur. Another airline organization requested that HHS/CDC ensure wait- 
times in lines are not impacted by 
screening, and encouraged HHS/CDC to 
take into account the needs of all 
stakeholders. HHS/CDC feels strongly 
that in these rare circumstances, which 
would only occur should a threat to 
public health exist, preventing airline 
employees and other passengers from 
being exposed to a detained or delayed 
individual provides a greater benefit 
than the monetary loss of airfare. In 
keeping with current practice, HHS/ 
CDC will work together with public 
health partners, carriers, and all who 
have equities, to ensure insofar as 
possible that the least restrictive and 
time-consuming measures are implemented. Finally, commenters 
requested that individuals who refuse to 
undergo a public health risk assessment 
prior to travel be denied boarding of an 
aircraft. In response, HHS/CDC notes 
that individuals may be denied boarding 
for public health reasons pursuant to the 
criteria published at 80 FR 16,400 (Mar. 
27, 2015) titled Criteria for Requesting VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00019Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6908 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
Federal Travel Restrictions for Public Health Purposes, Including for Viral 
Hemorrhagic Fevers. HHS/CDC received a comment expressing concern about conducting 
public health prevention measures at 
‚‚other locations™™ besides U.S. ports of 
entry because the commenter found this 
language vague. HHS/CDC clarifies that 
this term is meant to include all 
locations where individuals may enter 
the United States from a foreign country 
(i.e., border crossings) or gather for the purposes of engaging in interstate travel 
(e.g., airports, seaports, railway stations, bus terminals), regardless of whether 
such places are formally designated as 
such. One public health organization requested clarification regarding what 
information or event would justify 
triggering the screening of travelers. 
CDC™s response is that, while specific 
triggers cannot be defined at this time, 
screening of travelers may generally be 
conducted during a public health 
emergency if HHS/CDC determined that 
monitoring of potentially exposed 
travelers was needed to protect the 
public™s health. One public health organization and many individual commenters asserted 
that people exposed to measles should 
not be ‚‚tracked™™ through the use of 
Federal public health orders. First, we 
reiterate that because measles is not a 
quarantinable communicable disease, 
HHS/CDC does not have the authority to 
issue a public health order for this 
illness. Second, it is not HHS/CDC™s 
policy to monitor people following 
measles exposures. Rather, HHS/CDC 
notifies State or local health 
departments regarding people in their 
jurisdictions who may have been 
exposed to measles. The State or local 
health departments, in turn, choose to 
notify people regarding their measles 
exposure, assess their immunity to 
measles and, if they are not immune, 
offer vaccination with MMR vaccine to 
prevent infection. State or local health authorities may choose to monitor 
people following exposures to measles 
based on their own criteria. One commenter asked whether mandatory health screenings at airports 
would be conducted privately, whether 
processes would comply with HIPAA, 
and how data would be protected at 
airports. In response, HHS/CDC states 
that, in all situations, HHS/CDC strives 
to protect the privacy of individuals 
subject to screening, collection of 
information, or the issuance of Federal 
public health orders under HHS/CDC™s 
authority. While some aspects of the 
entry risk assessment process conducted 
during the 2014Œ2016 Ebola epidemic were performed in areas of the airport that are not considered private, these 
were limited to collection of contact 
information, noncontact temperature 
measurement, observation for visible 
signs of illness, and superficial 
screening questions that did not collect 
sensitive information. Any more 
detailed public health assessment 
would be done in a private area. HHS/CDC is bound by the Privacy Act to protect personally identifiable data 
collected and maintained in accordance 
with that Act. Furthermore, HHS/CDC 
will apply the protections of the SORN 
to all travelers regardless of citizenship 
or nationality. Personally identifiable 
data collected by HHS/CDC at airports 
are maintained in a secure database and 
shared only for official purposes on a 
need to know basis using secure 
methods as described in CDC™s System 
of Records Notice published at 72 FR 
70867. HHS is also a hybrid entity 
under HIPAA, but only those parts of 
HHS that have been determined to be 
health care components are subject to 
the HIPAA Privacy Rule. CDC is 
generally not a health care component 
treated as a ‚‚covered entity™™ under the 
HIPAA Privacy Rule. However, certain 
specific offices of HHS, CDC, and the 
National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health (NIOSH) performing 
activities related to the World Trade 
Center Health Program are considered 
health care components of HHS and 
must comply with HIPAA and the 
Privacy Rule. One public health organization recommended that the rulemaking 
specify that individuals undergoing a 
public health risk assessment only be 
asked to provide contact tracing 
information if the risk assessment leads 
to a reasonable belief that the individual 
may become infected. It is CDC™s policy 
to conduct conveyance-related contact 
investigations for confirmed cases of 
communicable diseases. In instances 
when confirmation cannot be obtained, 
HHS/CDC may investigate contacts 
based on reasonable belief of infection 
following a public health risk 
assessment which is typically 
conducted in coordination with the 
State or local health department of 
jurisdiction. Such operational details 
are generally defined in internal protocols. State or local authorities may 
conduct community-based contact 
investigations within their jurisdictions 
based on their own criteria. After consideration of these comments, HHS/CDC has modified 
paragraph (b) the provisions relating to 
Public Health Prevention Measures to 
Detect Communicable Disease (§§70.10 

and 71.20) to include information about ‚‚known or possible exposure™™ in the list of information that may be collected. e. Apprehension and Detention of Persons With Quarantinable 
Communicable Diseases HHS/CDC received several comments relating to the ‚‚apprehension™™ of an 
individual. One public health 
association and a public health 
department suggested that HHS/CDC 
not use the term ‚‚apprehension™™ 
because this may create social stigma. 
HHS/CDC uses this term in these 
regulations to align with the statutory 
terminology used in 42 U.S.C. 264(b) 
which authorizes the ‚‚apprehension, 
detention, or conditional release™™ of 
individuals coming into a State or 
possession from a foreign country or 
possession for purposes of preventing 
the introduction, transmission, and 
spread of quarantinable diseases. 
Similarly, 42 U.S.C. 264(d) authorizes 
the ‚‚apprehension and examination™™ of 
any individual in the qualifying stage of 
a quarantinable communicable disease 
who is moving or about to move 
between States or constitutes a probable 
source of infection to individuals 
moving between States. While HHS/ 
CDC can clarify and explain this term, 
only Congress has the authority to 
change statutory language. In addition 
to being a term specifically used in 
statute under 42 U.S.C. 264, HHS/CDC 
has determined that this term best 
conveys that HHS/CDC may, based on 
public health grounds, assume physical 
custody of individuals. Furthermore, 
using alternative terminology, may 
reduce public understanding and 
transparency regarding HHS/CDC™s legal 
authorities. One commenter stated that not every social distancing technique needs to 
involve taking physical custody of 
individuals and that using more 
voluntary-based options would be 
advisable. HHS/CDC agrees that 
attempting to obtain voluntary 
compliance with public health measures 
is more advisable than assuming legal 
custody, but believes that maintaining 
the authority to apprehend individuals 
who may pose a public health risk is a 
necessary tool to protect the public™s health. HHS/CDC received a comment 
regarding the ‚‚burden of proof™™ for an 
apprehension. In response, HHS/CDC 
notes that the applicable standard for an 
apprehension of an interstate traveler is 
‚‚reason to believe™™ that the individual 
is in the qualifying stage of a 
quarantinable communicable disease. 
HHS/CDC notes that Reasonably 
believed to be infected as applied to an 
individual is defined under this final rule. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00020Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6909 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
Several commenters expressed concern that because the ‚‚apprehension™™ period is not explicitly 
time-limited, that HHS/CDC may 
‚‚apprehend™™ an individual indefinitely 
without providing the individual with a 
written public health order or a medical 
review. One commenter noted that 
HHS/CDC used the term ‚‚generally™™ in 
the preamble of the NPRM and felt it 
was too vague, stating ‚‚setting a firm 
timeframe is vital.™™ A partnership of 
public health legal scholars and 
organizations stated that because HHS/ 
CDC did not explicitly limit how long 
an individual could remain 
apprehended that such apprehensions 
could turn into the functional 
equivalent of a quarantine thus 
potentially raising Fourth and Fifth 
Amendment concerns. In response to 
these concerns, HHS/CDC has added 
language requiring that it serve an 
apprehended individual with a public 
health order within 72 hours of that 
individual™s apprehension. HHS/CDC received several other comments relating to the sections 
authorizing the apprehension and 
detention of persons with quarantinable 
communicable diseases. A partnership 
of public health legal scholars and 
organizations suggested two public 
health frameworks for apprehension and 
detention, one for implementation 
during non-exigent circumstances and a 
second for exigent circumstances. As 
described, the primary distinction 
between the non-exigent and exigent 
framework, is that in the former HHS/ 
CDC would be required to hold a due 
process hearing prior to the imposition 
of an isolation or quarantine, while in 
the latter HHS/CDC may briefly detain 
the individual prior to holding a 
hearing. While HHS/CDC appreciates 
the input provided by this partnership, 
HHS/CDC declines to adopt this 
suggestion. Importantly, unlike State 
and local public health authorities who 
have primary responsibility for the 
imposition of public health measures 
occurring within their jurisdictions, 
HHS/CDC acts in time-sensitive 
circumstances to prevent communicable 
disease spread, such as at ports of entry, 
upon the request of a State or local 
public health authority of jurisdiction, 
or when State or local control is 
inadequate. Furthermore, unlike State 
and local public health authorities who 
generally have broad police-power 
authority to protect the public™s health, 
HHS/CDC™s statutory authority with 
respect to isolation and quarantine is 
limited to only those small, subset of 
communicable diseases specified 
through an Executive Order of the President as quarantinable. Accordingly, HHS/CDC does not foresee sufficient 
‚‚non-exigent™™ circumstances where it 
would be necessary for it to issue a 
Federal isolation or quarantine order 
and thus declines to establish the 
suggested alternative framework on this 
basis. The circumstances under which HHS/ CDC may apprehend and detain 
individuals is limited by the terms of 42 
U.S.C. 264. HHS/CDC may only isolate, 
quarantine, or conditionally release an 
individual if it reasonably believes that 
the individual is infected with a 
quarantinable communicable disease 
and the individual is either arriving into 
the U.S. from a foreign country, moving 
between States, or constitutes a probable 
source of infection to others who may 
then move between States. Accordingly, the circumstances under which CDC is would issue a quarantine 
or isolation order are ‚‚exigent™™ because 
the individual constitutes a 
communicable disease risk and is 
actively engaged in travel or constitutes 
a source of infection to others engaged 
in travel. It is thus unnecessary and 
impractical to provide a ‚‚pre- 
deprivation™™ hearing prior to 
quarantining or isolating the individual 
because he/she if released from custody 
may be lost to public health follow-up 
and may expose others. HHS/CDC 
would not quarantine or isolate an 
arriving traveler from a foreign country 
where a single case of a communicable 
disease such as Ebola exists unless it 
reasonably believes that the traveler 
arriving into the U.S. is infected with a 
quarantinable communicable disease. Commenters stated that individuals must receive notice of their suspected 
exposure and be permitted to speak 
with legal counsel or have legal counsel 
appointed to them. HHS/CDC agrees 
that individuals should be adequately 
notified of the basis for their detention 
and directs this commenter to sections 
70.14 and 71.37, which detail the 
specific factual content that must be included in a Federal order for 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release. We have also modified these 
sections to explicitly require that the 
federal order include an explanation of 
the right to request a medical review, 
present witnesses and testimony at the 
medical review, and to be represented at 
the medical review by either an 
advocate (e.g., family member, physician, or attorney) at the 
individual™s own expense, or, if 
indigent, to have representatives 
appointed at the government™s expense. As previously stated, consistent with principles of preventing communicable 
disease spread, HHS/CDC will also take measures (such as ensuring phone access) to allow apprehended 
individuals to have contact with family 
or legal counsel whom they hire at their 
own expense. As explained further 
below, HHS/CDC will also appoint 
representatives, including a medical 
representative and an attorney, if the 
individual is indigent and requests a 
medical review. Individuals who do not 
qualify as indigent may also choose to 
be represented at the medical review by 
an advocate (e.g., an attorney, physician, family member) and present a 
reasonable number of medical experts, 
of their own choosing and at their own 
expense. HHS/CDC, however, rejects as 
impractical the notion that indigent 
individuals should have representatives 
appointed to them at the moment of 
apprehension because most illnesses of public health concern can be ruled out 
based on a short interview with a 
quarantine officer involving an 
assessment of symptoms and travel 
history. Thus, the expected length of an 
apprehension will be very short and not 
justify the appointment of 
representatives. This commenter also requested clarity on what legal recourse may be available 
to apprehended individuals. While 
HHS/CDC does not express an opinion 
regarding what form of legal action an 
aggrieved individual should pursue, we 
note that these regulations do not 
impact the constitutional or statutory 
rights of individuals to seek judicial 
redress for detention. HHS/CDC received comments from the public regarding HHS/CDC™s 
authority to ‚‚arrest™™ individuals. One 
commenter stated that individuals 
should only be detained when a crime 
has been committed. One association 
objected to HHS/CDC™s ‚‚power to detain 
an individual for 72 hours and longer 
without any Federal court order.™™ Some 
commenters also worried that any 
person showing signs of a ‚‚common 
cold™™ may be held. To be clear, HHS/ 
CDC is not a law enforcement agency, it 
has no legal authority to ‚‚arrest™™ 
individuals, but rather has been granted 
the authority by Congress to ‚‚apprehend 
and detain™™ individuals for the 
purposes of preventing the introduction, 
transmission and spread of 
quarantinable communicable disease as 
specified in an Executive Order of the 
President. 42 U.S.C. 264(b). This 
provision further provides that 
‚‚regulations may provide that if upon 
examination any such individual is 
found to be infected, he may be 
detained for such time and in such 
manner as may be reasonably necessary.™™ 42 U.S.C. 264(d)(1). HHS/ 
CDC strongly believes that these VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00021Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6910 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
authorities may be implemented in a manner consistent with the U.S. 
Constitution. Furthermore, during the 
period of apprehension, HHS/CDC will 
arrange for adequate food and water, 
appropriate accommodation, 
appropriate medical treatment, and 
means of necessary communication. HHS/CDC received comments from the public inquiring about the criteria 
that HHS/CDC uses to determine 
whether an individual should be 
detained and assessed. As provided for 
in the regulation, HHS/CDC may 
apprehend, examine, isolate, and 
quarantine such individuals to protect 
the public™s health. In determining 
whether an individual poses a threat to 
public health, HHS/CDC has developed 
and uses the following criteria: Clinical 
manifestations: Signs and symptoms 
consistent with those of a quarantinable 
disease; known or suspected contact 
with a case, i.e., patients either confirmed or suspected to be infected 
with a quarantinable disease; 
epidemiologic information/evidence 
(travel history, exposure to animals); 
other documentary or physical evidence 
in the individual™s possession, such as 
a physician™s note documenting 
infection with or medication for 
treatment of a quarantinable 
communicable disease; and/or public 
health authorities have notified HHS/ 
CDC that the individual is known or 
suspected to be infected with a 
quarantinable communicable disease 
and non-adherent with public health 
recommendations. This determination is 
typically made in consultation and 
coordination with State and local public 
health authorities, as well as the treating 
health care physician (when available). 
One public health association agreed 
that travel history (entering the U.S. 
from a country where quarantinable 
diseases occur) made sense for 
screening, but not for a quarantine or 
isolation order. HHS/CDC responds that 
the criteria listed above, as well as those 
within the NPRM, are examples of 
factors that HHS/CDC takes into 
consideration when determining the 
totality of the circumstancesŠnot one 
criterion does, should, or will, decide if 
the individual requires a public health 
order. One commenter questioned whether, regarding the list of quarantinable 
communicable diseases listed by 
Executive Order of the President, a 
‚‚common cold™™ would qualify as a 
‚‚severe acute respiratory syndrome™™ 
and therefore subject the ill individual 
to a public health order. In response, we 
note that Executive Order 13295 (April 4, 2003), as amended by Executive 
Order 13375 (April 1, 2005) and Executive Order 13674 (July 31, 2014), explicitly excludes ‚‚influenza™™ from the 
definition of severe acute respiratory 
syndrome. HHS/CDC received several comments from a flight attendant union relating to 
apprehension and detention of a flight 
crew. These comments include that the 
flight attendant™s employer should be 
made aware of the apprehension, that 
HHS/CDC should limit the personal 
health information that is shared with 
the employer, that the employer should 
treat this information as confidential, 
and that those apprehended should be 
able to notify families and their union. 
In response, HHS/CDC notes that it 
works closely with the airline industry 
regarding potential occupational 
exposures to communicable diseases. 
Furthermore, HHS/CDC notes that 
personally identifiable health 
information collected and maintained 
under the Privacy Act will be disclosed 
only with the consent of the subject 
individual, in accordance with the 
routine uses published in HHS/CDC™s 
system of records notice (72 FR 70867), 
or under an applicable exception to the 
Privacy Act. While these regulations do 
not mandate how employers should 
treat the personal health information of 
their employees, HHS/CDC agrees that 
such information should be treated as 
confidential. Lastly, consistent with 
principles of preventing communicable 
disease spread, HHS/CDC will allow 
persons detained in accordance with 
these regulations to communicate with 
family, union representatives, legal 
counsel whom they hire at their own 
expense, and others of their choosing. 
HHS/CDC will also appoint 
representatives, including a medical 
representative and an attorney, if the 
individual is indigent and requests a 
medical review. One commenter asked about provisions for people detained under 
HHS/CDC™s authority who require 
emergency medical care, and whether 
the need to conduct a public health 
assessment could impede such care 
resulting in harm to the individual. In 
response, HHS/CDC states that public 
health officers at ports of entry work 
closely with emergency medical service 
(EMS) personnel and that emergency 
medical care takes precedence over the 
public health risk assessment. When an 
individual suspected of being infected 
with a quarantinable communicable 
disease requires emergency care, the 
individual would be transported 
immediately by EMS to a medical 
facility, using appropriate infection 
control precautions. The public health risk assessment would be completed 
subsequently using information provided by the examining health care provider in coordination with the health 
department of jurisdiction. After consideration of these comments, HHS/CDC has finalized the 
Apprehension and Detention of Persons 
With Quarantinable Communicable 
Diseases (§70.6) provision as proposed, 
with the exception that Federal public 
health orders must be served on the 
individual within 72 hours of an 
apprehension. As further detailed 
below, the 72-hour period was 
determined based on public comment 
from health departments familiar with 
the process, as well as CDC™s previous 
experience of the time necessary to 
conduct a medical examination, collect 
and package laboratory specimens, 
transport the specimens to an 
appropriate laboratory (when 
necessary), and conduct the testing. f. Medical Examinations HHS/CDC received several comments relating to medical examinations. HHS/ CDC received a comment from a public 
health agency stating that when an 
individual agrees to submit to a medical 
examination, it may be more 
appropriate to medically examine the 
patient during the ‚‚apprehension™™ 
period. In response, HHS/CDC notes 
that these regulations do not prohibit 
voluntary compliance with public 
health recommendations in the absence 
of a public health order. 
Notwithstanding, HHS/CDC believes 
that the ability to order a medical 
examination as part of an order for 
isolation, quarantine, or conditional 
release is an important tool to protect 
the public™s health. This agency also 
stated that the definitions of ‚‚health 
status™™ and ‚‚public health risk™™ should 
be modified to ensure that the medical 
examination contains the minimum 
requirements needed to assess the 
communicable disease of public health concern. In response, HHS/CDC clarifies 
that its sole purpose in ordering a 
medical examination would be to 
determine the presence, absence, or 
extent of infection with a quarantinable 
communicable disease. HHS/CDC notes, 
however, that the medical examination 
is conducted by clinical staff who have 
primary responsibility for the patient™s 
medical care and treatment and that a 
medical examination would thus 
ordinarily include the taking of a 
medical history and physical 
examination. HHS/CDC believes that 
this definition is clear and that no 
further modifications are needed. HHS/CDC received a comment expressing concern that an individual 
would not be able to choose his or her 
own clinical healthcare provider if VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00022Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6911 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
ordered to undergo a medical examination. One commenter raised 
concerns about the possibility of 
medical examinations being conducted 
by ‚‚unqualified™™ or ‚‚non-medical 
personnel.™™ In response, HHS/CDC 
clarifies that, in keeping with current 
practice, any medical evaluation 
required by HHS/CDC would be 
conducted at a healthcare facility by a 
licensed healthcare practitioner. 
Furthermore, HHS/CDC has determined 
that it would be impractical to allow 
individuals to choose their own medical 
examiners. HHS/CDC notes that among 
other considerations, it must ensure that 
the healthcare facility where the 
medical examination will be conducted 
has appropriate containment facilities, 
that necessary laboratory samples will 
be properly collected, and that it is 
HHS/CDC™s practice to coordinate 
closely with State and local public 
health authorities in the choosing of 
clinical healthcare providers. 
Accordingly, we have concluded that 
the public interest is best served by 
having HHS/CDC, in coordination with 
the local health authority and EMS, 
choose the healthcare facility where the 
medical examination will be conducted 
and not the detained individual. One commenter expressed concern that nonmedical personnel may be 
allowed to make a determination of 
illness resulting in actions being taken 
based on potential misdiagnosis. HHS/ 
CDC appreciates the opportunity to 
clarify this point. Decisions to issue 
Federal public health orders are based 
on the assessment of qualified and 
licensed physicians. These decisions are 
based on all available evidence, 
including clinical presentation, medical 
and exposure history, and the results of 
medical evaluation and laboratory 
testing. Treatment decisions are made 
by the individual™s treating physician 
with guidance from public health 
subject-matter experts. One commenter suggested that medical examinations should be 
conducted only with the informed 
consent of the individual and should 
not ‚‚forcibly™™ be required. HHS/CDC 
clarifies that it may require a medical 
examination under 42 U.S.C. 264(d) 
because this section, among other 
things, authorizes the ‚‚apprehension 
and examination™™ of individuals 
reasonably believed to be infected with 
quarantinable communicable diseases in 
a qualifying stage. CDC, however, agrees 
that medical examinations may not be 
conducted ‚‚forcibly.™™ Furthermore, 
because medical examinations will 
typically occur in a hospital setting and be performed by clinical staff, it will be 
incumbent upon clinical staff to obtain the patient™s informed consent consistent with established standards of 
medical practice. Public health organizations provided several comments regarding medical 
examinations, including that they be 
performed promptly so as not to curtail 
liberty, include only minimal 
components necessary to establish the 
diagnosis of or rule out the 
quarantinable communicable disease of 
concern, and that specimens obtained 
during such examinations not be used 
for purposes other than diagnostic 
testing without informed consent. In 
response, HHS/CDC states that it agrees 
with all of these points and that CDC, 
in keeping with current practice, has a 
commitment to upholding the highest 
ethical standards for both medical care 
and research. One public health organization asked for clarification of whether hospital staff 
would be involved in obtaining consent 
for medical examinations authorized 
under this rule. In response, HHS/CDC 
states that, while a public health order 
authorizes that a medical examination 
be conducted, should any invasive 
procedures be determined by the 
treating clinician to be necessary for 
diagnostic or treatment purposes, 
consent for such procedures should be 
obtained by medical staff in accordance 
with established standards. One organization asked for clarification of the location where 
medical examinations would be 
conducted, including whether inpatient 
or ambulatory-care facilities would be 
included. HHS/CDC responds that it 
will coordinate with State or local 
health departments of jurisdiction 
concerning such operational details as 
the exact locations where medical 
examinations may be conducted. Several public health organizations commented on whether the issuance of 
public health orders is needed prior to 
medical examination if individuals 
agree voluntarily to such examinations, 
noting that a requirement for the 
issuance of orders could impede or delay the medical examination and that 
the examination, itself, could determine 
whether such orders are needed. In 
response, HHS/CDC notes that it may 
choose not to exercise its authority to 
issue public health orders if an 
individual complies voluntarily with 
HHS/CDC™s requirements, including the 
requirement of a medical examination. 
However, HHS/CDC retains the right to 
issue an order requiring a medical 
examination should an individual not 
comply voluntarily. Of note, one public 
health organization supported the use of 
Federal public health orders in 
requiring medical examinations, stating that such orders had been used effectively in the past to facilitate timely 
examination. One public health organization requested that language be added to the 
rule stating that medical examinations 
will be performed with proper 
adherence to worker safety and health 
policies and protocols. HHS/CDC 
responds that such occupational health 
protections are beyond the scope of this 
regulation and are covered by 
regulations of the Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration (OSHA). HHS/CDC received several comments from a flight attendant union relating to 
medical examinations. This 
organization stated that the regulations 
should mandate that an employer pay a 
flight attendant™s salary and per diem 
and that no flight attendant should 
incur discipline as a result of being 
absent from work. This organization 
further commented that any changes in 
the employer-employee relationship 
should be addressed through joint 
guidance between government and 
industry groups. This group also 
commented that ‚‚promptly™™ should be 
defined in terms of the length of time 
that may be needed to arrange for a 
medical exam and that no more than 
five hours would be reasonable. This 
group further stated that ‚‚reasonably 
believed™™ should be defined to require 
specific, articulable facts that a trained 
medical professional can articulate. HHS/CDC responds that these regulations do not alter, define, or 
mandate the employer-employee 
relationship between flight attendants 
and their employers. In regard to the 
timeframe for arranging a medical 
examination, HHS/CDC rejects a 
specific 5-hour timeframe as too 
prescriptive, but agrees that the medical 
examination should be arranged as 
quickly as possible based on the 
circumstances of the event. HHS/CDC 
further notes that the definition of 
‚‚reasonably believed to be infected™™ 
already requires the existence of ‚‚specific articulable facts™™ articulated 
by a public health officer. Such specific, 
articulable facts would, for instance, 
include ‚‚contact with an infected 
person or an infected person™s bodily 
fluids, a contaminated environment, or 
through an intermediate host or vector.™™ HHS/CDC received a comment from a partnership of public health legal 
scholars and organizations expressing 
concern that the regulations do not 
appear to limit the invasiveness of a 
medical examination, so long as the 
examination itself is needed to diagnose 
or determine the presence or extent of 
infection with a quarantinable 
communicable disease. HHS/CDC VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00023Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6912 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
welcomes this opportunity to provide further clarifications. HHS/CDC notes 
that because medical examinations will 
occur in a hospital setting and be 
performed by the hospital™s clinical 
staff, it will be incumbent upon clinical 
staff to obtain the patient™s informed 
consent consistent with established 
standards of medical practice prior to 
any examination occurring and that 
such examinations may not be forcibly 
conducted. HHS/CDC has also added a 
requirement that the Director, as part of 
the Federal order, the individual that 
the medical examination shall be 
conducted by an authorized and 
licensed health worker with prior 
informed consent. Furthermore, HHS/ 
CDC will implement this provision 
consistent with U.S. constitutional 
requirements and Articles 23 and 31 of 
the International Health Regulations, 
which requires that parties apply ‚‚the 
least intrusive and invasive medical 
examination that would achieve the 
public health objective.™™ After consideration of these comments, HHS/CDC has finalized the 
provisions relating to Medical 
Examination (§§70.12 and 71.36) as 
proposed, with the exception that the 
Director as part of the Federal order 
must advise the individual that the 
medical examination will be conducted 
by an authorized and licensed health 
worker with prior informed consent. g. Requirements Relating to Issuance of a Federal Order for Quarantine, 
Isolation, or Conditional Release HHS/CDC received several comments relating to the issuance of Federal orders 
for isolation or quarantine. A flight 
attendant union commented that crew 
lists should not be published as part of 
a quarantine order posted in a 
conspicuous location. This group 
further stated that quarantine orders for 
flight attendants should be treated 
differently than those applicable to 
passengers or other airline personnel 
because flight attendants are health and 
safety personnel trained in how to 
perform CPR and operate defibrillators. 
In response, HHS/CDC notes that if a 
public health order is publicly posted, 
the order will be written to refer to a group of individuals, such as all 
individuals onboard a particular 
affected interstate or international flight. 
Under such circumstances, HHS/CDC 
expects that all members of the group 
will receive individual copies of the 
public health order. In some 
circumstances, CDC anticipates that 
issuance of a group federal order to an 
individual may not be feasibleŠsuch as 
when the location of the individual is 
unknown. Thus, HHS/CDC does not expect to publish the names of individual passengers or crew as part of 
a publicly posted quarantine order. 
Furthermore, while HHS/CDC agrees 
that flight attendants provide an 
important public health and safety role, 
HHS/CDC disagrees that acknowledging 
this role requires the issuance of 
different public health orders than those 
issued to other affected persons. HHS/CDC received several comments requesting the ‚‚least restrictive™™ means 
with respect to quarantine and isolation. 
HHS/CDC agrees and clarifies that in all 
situations involving quarantine, 
isolation, or other public health 
measures, it seeks to use the least 
restrictive means necessary to prevent 
spread of disease. Regarding quarantine, 
as an example, during the 2014Œ2016 
Ebola epidemic, HHS/CDC 
recommended monitoring of potentially 
exposed individuals rather than 
quarantine. Most of these people were 
free to travel and move about the 
community, as long as they maintained 
daily contact with their health 
department. For some individuals with 
higher levels of exposure, HHS/CDC 
recommended enhanced monitoring 
(involving direct observation) and, in 
some cases restrictions on travel and 
being in crowded places, but did not 
recommend quarantine. HHS/CDC has 
the option of ‚‚conditional release™™ as a 
less restrictive alternative to issuance of 
an order of quarantine or isolation. 
Under a conditional release order, the 
person would not be confined as long as 
the terms of the order were followed. 
Should a quarantine or isolation order 
be deemed necessary, home quarantine 
or isolation would be considered as a 
less restrictive option to confinement in 
a guarded facility as long as this was 
determined to be safe for other 
household members, appropriate based 
on the individual™s ability and 
willingness to follow all necessary 
precautions, and based on the 
individual™s history of compliance with 
public health recommendations. One public health organization requested that HHS/CDC specify the 
types of locations of Federal quarantine 
and asked clarification of whether this 
would occur on lands or property under 
Federal jurisdiction, and whether 
Federal or State standards would apply 
to an individual quarantined on lands or 
property not under Federal control. In 
response, HHS/CDC notes that 
operational issues such as the exact 
location of a quarantine and whether 
Federal, State, and local orders would 
be issued separately or concurrently 
would depend on individual facts and circumstances unique to each case. 
HHS/CDC notes, however, that it is not unusual for the Federal government to exercise jurisdiction concurrently with 
State and local governments. One public health organization noted the longstanding difficulties faced by 
Federal, State and local authorities in 
identifying suitable facilities for 
quarantining of large groups of people 
(approximately 350, representing the 
potential complement of travelers 
onboard an international flight), 
including the immediate availability of 
such facilities in the event of an 
emergency. HHS/CDC acknowledges 
these difficulties and affirms that it is 
actively working with Federal partners 
to identify suitable locations to 
accommodate large groups of people 
while under a Federal public health 
order. One commenter stated, ‚‚If this is enacted ... everyone who works with 

diseases ... CDC, WHO, Labs, Drs., 

nurses etc. would have to be arrested as 
potential carriers.™™ HHS/CDC disagrees 
with this assertion. HHS/CDC is not a 
law enforcement agency and does not 
have authority to arrest individuals. 
HHS/CDC™s authority to issue Federal 
public health orders is limited to those 
diseases defined by Executive Order as 
quarantinable communicable diseases. 
Furthermore, HHS/CDC does not 
recommend restriction of movement for 
healthcare workers, laboratory workers, 
or others whose occupations involve 
working with infectious pathogens as 
long as the recommended infection 
control precautions are followed. 
Workers who do not take the necessary 
precautions or have unprotected 
exposures to a quarantinable 
communicable disease may be subject to 
restrictions if they meet the 
requirements for issuance of Federal 
public health orders. Some commenters indicated that vaccination or treatment should not be 
‚‚conditions™™ under ‚‚conditional 
release.™™ HHS/CDC confirms that this 
final rule does not compel mandatory 
vaccination or medical treatment of individuals. HHS/CDC clarifies that 
when medically appropriate, 
vaccination or treatment, may be 
‚‚conditions™™ of an individual™s release 
from quarantine or isolation. 
Individuals consent to these conditions. A public health agency commented that HHS/CDC should consider the 
conditions of confinement to ensure that 
certain minimum requirements, such as 
access to telephones, and reasonable 
accommodation of dietary restrictions, 
are observed. Specifically, such 
conditions should be considered at 
different stages including as part of the 
issuance of an order, during the 
mandatory reassessment, and as a part VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00024Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6913 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
of the medical review. In response, HHS/CDC notes that in addition to 
implementing these regulations 
consistent with U.S. constitutional 
requirements, CDC™s implementation 
will also be consistent with Article 32 
of the International Health Regulations 
which, among other things, requires that 
in implementing health measures under 
the IHR the gender, sociocultural, ethnic 
and religious concerns of the traveler be 
taken into consideration. Furthermore, 
Article 32 requires arranging for 
adequate food and water, protection for 
baggage and other possessions, 
appropriate accommodation, 
appropriate medical treatment, and 
means of necessary communication for 
those subject to public health orders. 
Furthermore, as stated in the 
regulations, as part of a mandatory 
reassessment and medical review, HHS/ CDC will consider whether the least restrictive means are being used to 
protect the public health. HHS/CDC, 
however, does not believe that it is 
necessary for ‚‚conditions of 
confinement™™ to be formally considered 
as part of an administrative review 
because many conditions of 
confinement, such as availability of 
entertainment or other amenities, may 
be raised through informal means such 
as making one™s concern known to the 
facility where the individual is being 
housed. HHS/CDC received a comment from a public health agency noting that it 
should assume the responsibility of 
providing translation and interpretation 
services when issuing an order for 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release, or when conducting a medical 
review. HHS/CDC agrees and has 
incorporated these changes into the 
regulatory text. HHS/CDC received a comment from a partnership of public health legal 
scholars and organizations requesting 
clarification as to whether personal 
service will occur when a quarantine 
order is issued on a group basis and 
posted in a conspicuous location. In 
response, HHS/CDC notes that if a 
public health order is publicly posted, 
the order will be written to refer to a 
group of individuals, such as all 
individuals onboard a particular 
affected interstate or international flight. 
Under such circumstances, HHS/CDC 
expects that all members of the group 
will receive individual copies of the 
public health order, thus addressing any 
concerns about adequacy of notice. 
Because HHS/CDC, however, cannot 
foresee all of the circumstances that may 
arise in an emergency situation, HHS/CDC believes that it is appropriate for 
these regulations to authorize service through posting or publication, but only when individual service is 
‚‚impracticable.™™ After consideration of these comments, HHS/CDC has modified the 
provisions regarding requirements 
relating to issuance of a Federal order 
for quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release (§§70.14 and 71.37). Paragraphs 
(a)(5) and (4) of these provisions have 
been modified, respectively, to require 
that the federal order include an 
explanation of the right to request a 
medical review, present witnesses and 
testimony at the medical review, and to 
be represented at the medical review by 
either an advocate (e.g., family member, physician, or attorney) at the 
individual™s own expense, or, if 
indigent, to have representatives 
appointed at the government™s expense. 
Paragraph (b) of these provisions has 
been modified to require that a Federal 
public health order be served within 72 
hours of an individual™s apprehension. 
A new provision, paragraph (c), has 
been added requiring that the Director 
arrange for translation and 
interpretation services of the Federal 
order as needed. h. Mandatory Reassessment of a Federal Order for Quarantine, Isolation, or 
Conditional Release A number of commenters were confused regarding the 72-hour period, 
believing this period referred to the 
period of apprehension pending the 
issuance of a Federal public health 
order and asked why 72 hours were 
needed. The 72-hour period proposed 
referred to the timeframe in which HHS/ CDC must conduct a mandatory reassessment of the continued need for 
isolating or quarantining an individual 
following the service of a Federal public 
health order. However, in response to 
public comments HHS/CDC has also 
added in sections 70.14(b) and 71.37(b) a requirement that it serve the 
individual with a Federal public health 
order within 72 hours of that 
individual™s apprehension. Some commenters, including a public health association, supported the 
mandatory 72-hour reassessment 
provision guaranteed by these 
regulations. One of these commenters 
also suggested the time be re-evaluated 
periodically in the event that technology 
provides a way of speeding up the 
diagnosis process; another suggested the 
time frame be expanded to five days to 
account for weekends; one more 
commenter noted that circumstances 
may arise where an additional 72 hours 
may be needed; and another commenter 
stated that a second 72-hour 
reassessment should be required. HHS/ CDC is committed to performing a reassessment within 72 hours of the federal public health order being served 
on the individual. If, at that time, HHS/ CDC determines that the order was properly issued and that a public health 
risk continues to exist, the order would 
either be continued or HHS/CDC would 
work with the State and local health 
department to transfer custody. In the 
event that HHS/CDC continues the 
order, the individual may request a 
medical review at that time. A few commenters stated that the reassessment of HHS/CDC™s orders 
should be conducted in a shorter time 
period than 72 hours such as within 12 
hours, performed electronically and 
conducted by a 3rd party. While HHS/ CDC appreciates the input provided by these commenters, HHS/CDC finds 
these suggestions impractical. Medical 
examination to confirm or rule out 
infection with a quarantinable 
communicable disease may require up 
to 72 hours to allow for laboratory 
testing. While some communicable 
diseases (typically viral infections) may 
be diagnosed using molecular tests such 
as polymerase chain reaction (PCR) that 
take several hours to perform, others 
require that the organism be cultured to 
make a confirmed diagnosis or to 
conduct antimicrobial sensitivity testing 
in order to provide appropriate 
treatment. This is typically needed for 
bacterial infections, such as diphtheria 
or plague, and may take 48Œ72 hours (or 
longer) to complete. For some infectious 
tuberculosis cases, laboratory 
confirmation may take several weeks 
although preliminary molecular testing 
may assist in conducting an assessment 
of risk sufficient to continue or rescind 
the order. Specimen transportation time 
may also need to be factored in as 
testing for certain diseases is only 
available at state public health 
laboratories or CDC. While HHS/CDC is required by this provision to reassess the need for a 
Federal public health order within 72 
hours, HHS/CDC will immediately 
release individuals from detention if at 
any time it receives information 
confirming the absence of infection with 
a quarantinable communicable disease. 
We note that while the medical 
assessment is intended primarily as a 
review of available medical records and 
other relevant information, these 
regulations do not prohibit HHS/CDC 
from conducting the review 
electronically, for instance by relying on 
electronic medical records. 
Furthermore, HHS/CDC disagrees that 
relying on internal decision-makers for the reassessment is inappropriate or 
undesirable and thus does not consider VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00025Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6914 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
it necessary to rely on a ‚‚3rd party.™™ However, the CDC official or employee 
conducts the reassessment will not be 
the same person who issued the 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release order. Following the 
reassessment, the detained individual 
may also request a medical review as 
described in these regulations. HHS/CDC received a comment from a public health agency requesting 
clarification as to whether all 
individuals within a group will receive 
individual due process when a group 
order is issued. This agency also 
questioned the feasibility of providing a 
mandatory reassessment and medical 
review for large groups. In response, 
HHS/CDC confirms that if a group order 
is issued, all individuals within that 
group will be accorded due process. 
Furthermore, HHS/CDC has provided 
flexibility in the regulations to allow for 
a mandatory reassessment of the group 
order and consolidation of medical 
reviews where appropriate. HHS/CDC received a comment from a partnership of public health legal 
scholars and organizations stating that 
while the rule requires consideration of 
least restrictive means upon 
reassessment of an order and as part of 
the medical review, HHS/CDC must also 
consider least restrictive means prior to 
the issuance of a quarantine or isolation 
order. HHS/CDC agrees that all means 
short of assuming legal custody of the 
individual including attempting to 
obtain voluntary compliance with 
public health measures should be 
explored. HHS/CDC notes, however, 
that an isolation or quarantine order is 
typically issued in time-sensitive 
situations where because of the exigent 
circumstances surrounding the risk of 
communicable disease spread it is not 
immediately possible to explore all 
available less restrictive means, 
including the appropriateness of a home 
environment, instead of a hospital. For 
this reason, HHS/CDC has chosen the 
mandatory reassessment and medical 
review as the appropriate time to 
conduct a formal assessment of least 
restrictive means. To the extent that the 
commenters suggest that due process 
requires more, we disagree. See Yin v. California, 95 F.3d 864, 870 (9th Cir. 1996) (recognizing that in searches and 
seizures justified by special needs, the 
government does not have to use the 
least restrictive means to further its 
interests); Stockton v. City of Freeport, Texas, 147 F.Supp.2d 642, 647 (S.D. Tex. 2001) (recognizing that the Fourth 
Amendment does not require that a 
search or seizure be conducted through the least restrictive means, but rather 
that the alleged personal invasion be reasonable under all of the circumstances). After consideration of these comments, HHS/CDC has finalized the 
provisions relating to mandatory 
reassessment of a Federal order for 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release (§§70.15 and 71.38) as 
proposed. i. Medical Review of a Federal Order for Quarantine, Isolation, or Conditional 
Release HHS/CDC received several comments arguing that its proposed medical 
review procedures are deficient. 
Specifically, one commenter stated that 
assessment procedures should be clearly 
communicated to all affected persons; 
that HHS/CDC should more clearly 
delineate ‚‚less restrictive alternatives;™™ 
that affected individuals should have a 
right to legal representation; and that 
access to independent judicial review is 
essential. HHS/CDC agrees that it should clearly communicate review procedures to 
individuals subject to Federal isolation, 
quarantine, or conditional release. We 
note that sections 70.14 and 71.37 have 
been modified to require that the federal 
order authorizing isolation, quarantine, 
or conditional release include an 
explanation that the federal order will 
be reassessed 72 hours after it is served 
on the individual and of the right to 
request a medical review, present 
witnesses and testimony at the medical 
review, and to be represented at the 
medical review by either an advocate 
(e.g., family member, physician, or attorney) at the individual™s own expense, or, if indigent, to have 
representatives appointed at the 
government™s expense. We further note 
that the provisions relating to medical 
reviews, sections 70.16 and 71.39 have 
been revised to include new paragraphs 
(q) which states that ‚‚The Director shall 
arrange for translation or interpretation 
services as needed for purposes of this 
section.™™ Similarly, in regard to minor children or adults with a cognitive disability, 
HHS/CDC will work with a competent 
guardian to ensure that procedures are 
clearly communicated. In regard to less 
restrictive alternatives, HHS/CDC 
believes that it is not possible to 
delineate with specificity all of the less 
restrictive options that may be available 
because such determinations will 
inevitably be based on the individual 
circumstances of each case, including 
the severity of the particular disease- 
causing agent, availability of treatment 
options should the disease not be 
adequately contained, the patient™s 
particular level of infectivity or communicability, appropriateness of the home environment, and the individual 
patient™s understanding, ability, and 
willingness to comply with less 
restrictive alternatives. For this reason, 
HHS/CDC has made consideration of 
less restrictive alternatives a part of the 
medical review proceeding where 
evidence may be submitted into the 
record, testimony obtained, and a 
recommendation provided by the 
medical reviewer. As a general matter, 
however, HHS/CDC clarifies that less 
restrictive alternatives would refer to 
reasonable and available alternatives 
that are adequate to protect the public™s 
health other than confinement in a 
guarded facility, such as home 
quarantine, directly observed therapy, 
or other forms of supervised release. In response to concerns about legal representation, HHS/CDC has amended 
the definition of ‚‚Medical 
representative™™ to ‚‚Representatives™™ 
and will now appoint ‚‚an attorney 
knowledgeable of public health 
practices™™ in addition to a ‚‚physician, 
nurse practitioner, or similar medical 
professional qualified in the diagnosis 
and treatment of infectious diseases.™™ 
HHS/CDC hopes that by appointing both 
an attorney and a qualified medical professional for indigent individuals it 
will alleviate concerns expressed by the 
public regarding the medical review 
process. We note that an attorney may 
become ‚‚knowledgeable of public 
health practices™™ in a number of ways, 
for instance, through prior 
representation of a public health agency 
or advocacy organization, training 
provided by a public health or advocacy 
organization or other training that 
would ordinarily occur through a 
Continuing Legal Education (CLE) 
event, law school coursework, or 
through independent study. We further 
note that for individuals qualifying as 
indigent, HHS/CDC intends to provide 
independent legal counsel from outside 
of the agency. In doing so, HHS/CDC 
may employ a variety of mechanisms, 
such as through agreements or 
memorandums of understanding with 
law school legal clinics, State or local 
bar associations, or public interest 
groups representing indigent clients. 
Individuals who do not qualify as 
indigent may choose to be represented 
at the medical review by an advocate 
(e.g., an attorney, physician, family member) and present a reasonable 
number of medical experts, of their own 
choosing and at their own expense. HHS/CDC also agrees that access to independent judicial review is essential 
and assures the public that this final rule does not affect the constitutional or 
statutory rights of individual to seek VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00026Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6915 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
judicial review through such traditional mechanisms as a petition for a writ of 
habeas corpus under 28 U.S.C. 2241. As 
a Federal agency, however, HHS/CDC 
would lack the legal authority through 
regulation to grant Federal courts with 
jurisdiction that they would not 
otherwise possess because only 
Congress may expand a Federal court™s 
jurisdiction. HHS/CDC received a comment from a partnership of public health legal 
scholars and organizations stating that 
the CDC Director should not have 
unfettered discretion to accept or reject 
the medical reviewer™s decision, but 
rather should only be allowed to reject 
a decision based on lack of substantial 
evidence. HHS/CDC believes that it 
would be inappropriate to mandate 
through regulation that the decision of 
a medical reviewer (which may include 
an HHS or CDC employee) should 
displace the decision of the CDC 
Director, particularly where the statute 
and delegation of authority have 
provided otherwise. HHS/CDC received several comments stating that a medical representative 
should be appointed to anyone 
regardless of their ability to pay. HHS/ CDC disagrees and notes that appointment of a representative at the 
government™s expense without regard to 
the patient™s indigence is not required. 
The status of ‚‚indigent™™ is self-reported 
as HHS/CDC will not require access to 
an individual™s financial records. Those 
who self-identify as indigent may be 
required to sign an affidavit or 
declaration under penalty of perjury 
stating they meet the threshold of at 
least 200% of the applicable poverty 
guidelines. HHS/CDC received a comment from a non-profit organization contending that 
the medical review does not comport 
with due process because there is no 
limit on the number of reviews that may 
be consolidated into a single 
proceeding, no access to legal counsel, 
no independence of the reviewer from the initial decision-maker, no 
confrontation or cross-examination of 
witnesses, no compulsory process for 
obtaining evidence or testimony, and no 
judicial review. This group contends 
that any detention that is non-exigent 
should occur only based on the 
‚‚informed explicit written consent™™ of 
the patient or ‚‚utilize the existing legal 
procedures for involuntary commitment 
of persons.™™ HHS/CDC disagrees that the medical review as described and set forth in the 
regulations does not comport with due 
process. While HHS/CDC acknowledges 
that there is no numerical limit to the 
number of medical reviews that may be consolidated, HHS/CDC believes that the circumstances giving rise to the 
need for consolidation will be 
exceedingly rare and that medical 
reviews will generally be conducted on 
an individual basis. HHS/CDC also disagrees that there is no access to legal counsel because HHS/ CDC will, consistent with principles of preventing communicable disease 
spread, allow persons subject to public 
health orders to communicate with 
family and legal counsel whom they 
hire at their own expense. Furthermore, 
as described above, the regulations have 
been amended to require the 
appointment of both an attorney and a medical professional if the detained 
individual qualifies as an indigent and 
requests a medical review. Individuals 
who do not qualify as indigent may also 
choose to be represented at the medical 
review by an advocate (e.g., an attorney, physician, family member) and present 
a reasonable number of medical experts, 
of their own choosing and at their own 
expense. HHS/CDC further believes that reliance on internal reviewers does not 
violate due process and notes that it is 
not unusual, for instance, for hospitals 
to rely on internal decision-makers 
when determining whether to commit a 
mental health patient on an emergency 
basis. The regulations, moreover, 
explicitly state that the medical 
reviewer will not be the same individual 
who initially authorized the quarantine 
or isolation order. We note further that 
the definition of both ‚‚representatives™™ 
and ‚‚medical reviewer™™ would in fact 
allow for the appointment of non-HHS/ CDC employees in these capacities because both terms are broadly defined 
in terms of the professional 
qualifications and not employment 
status of these individuals. Thus, these 
regulations do not prohibit the CDC 
Director from appointing personnel 
from outside of the agency to assist in 
conducting a medical review. For 
individuals qualifying as indigent, HHS/ CDC intends, generally, to provide independent legal counsel from outside 
of the agency. HHS/CDC also clarifies that during the course of a medical review, a 
detained individual will be permitted to 
present witnesses and question any 
witnesses offered by HHS/CDC. Any ‚‚confrontation™™ of witnesses, however, 
will be conducted in a manner 
consistent with principles of preventing 
communicable disease spread. HHS/
CDC, as a Federal agency, however lacks 
the legal authority to allow a detained 
individual to use compulsory processes, 
such as a subpoena, to compel the 
presence of witnesses. HHS/CDC will nevertheless make reasonable efforts to produce any HHS/CDC employees that 
would be critical to a detained 
individual™s presentation of evidence 
during a medical review. HHS/CDC also disagrees that there is no judicial review and notes that these 
regulations do not impact an 
individual™s constitutional or statutory 
rights to contest their Federal detention 
through such traditional mechanisms as 
a petition for a writ of habeas corpus 
under 28 U.S.C. 2241. To the extent, 
however, that the commenter contends 
that HHS/CDC should follow legal 
procedures other than those set forth 
through the Federal quarantine statute 
at 42 U.S.C. 264, we disagree. HHS/CDC 
notes that as a Federal agency it lacks 
the ability to rewrite Federal statutes or 
grant Federal courts with legal 
jurisdiction that they do not already 
possess. HHS/CDC also rejects as 
impractical and as insufficient to protect 
public health, the notion that isolation 
or quarantine should only occur based 
upon the consent of the subject 
individual. HHS/CDC received a comment from a flight attendant union that as an 
important ‚‚safety net™™ HHS/CDC should 
pay for ‚‚second medical opinions.™™ 
HHS/CDC declines to extend payment 
to medical examinations beyond those 
required as part of a public health order, 
but notes that as part of a medical 
review individuals may submit 
additional evidence into the record 
concerning their health status and 
potential public health risk to others. One commenter noted language in the NPRM stating that the ‚‚medical review 
is not intended to address the concerns 
of individuals who take issue with 
amenities of their confinement ...,™™ 

interpreting this to mean that ‚‚no 
provision is made for those who must 
use a CPAP (continuous positive airway 
pressure) at night or who need 
orthopedic appliances, or who have 
food allergies, to name a few.™™ In 
response, HHS/CDC states that, when 
confinement of an individual under 
Federal public health authorities is 
needed, HHS/CDC will ensure that such 
confinement will occur in a location 
and with necessary amenities to ensure 
the health and safety of the individual, 
including provision for medical or 
dietary requirements. Issues related to health and safety will be addressed at 
the time of the issuance of the order, or 
as soon as HHS/CDC is made aware of 
them, but are beyond the scope of the 
medical review which is intended to re- 
evaluate the continued need for the 
Federal public health order based on a 
review of the medical and other 
evidence submitted into the record. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00027Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6916 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
HHS/CDC received a comment from a partnership of public health legal scholars and organizations stating that it 
should provide for an oral hearing 
whenever practical. HHS/CDC agrees 
that an oral hearing is appropriate and 
has modified the language to state: ‚‚The 
medical review shall be conducted by 
telephone, audio or video conference, or 
through other means that the medical 
reviewer determines in his/her 
discretion are practicable for allowing 
the individual under quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release to 
participate in the medical review.™™ HHS/CDC received a comment from a partnership of public health legal 
scholars and organizations that the CDC 
Director™s written order, which 
constitutes final agency action, must 
advise individuals of their rights to 
appeal to Federal court. We note that 
the commenters specifically cite the 
Administrative Procedures Act (APA, 5 
U.S.C. 704), which provides that ‚‚final 
agency action for which there is no 
other adequate remedy in a court are 
subject to judicial review.™™ While HHS/ CDC agrees that independent judicial review of agency decisions is available, 
it takes no position as to whether such 
reviews should occur under the APA (as 
suggested by the commenters) or 
through other traditional mechanisms as 
a petition for a writ of habeas corpus 
under 28 U.S.C. 2241. For this reason, 
HHS/CDC believes that due process is 
satisfied by designating the Director™s 
written order as ‚‚final agency action™™ 
without further speculation as to the 
exact form of further legal review. 
However, to clarify HHS/CDC™s 
intended we have added the following 
language to the regulatory text: 
‚‚Nothing in these regulations shall 
affect the constitutional or statutory 
rights of individuals to obtain judicial 
review of their federal detention.™™ Accordingly, after consideration of these comments, HHS/CDC has 
modified paragraph (f) of the provisions 
regarding medical review of a Federal order for quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release (§§70.16 and 71.39) 

to include the revised definition of 
‚‚Representatives,™™ which now requires 
HHS/CDC to appoint both a medical 
professional and an attorney ‚‚to assist 
the individual for purposes of the 
medical review upon a request and 
certification, under penalty of perjury, 
by that individual that he or she is 
indigent and cannot afford a 
representative.™™ j. Administrative Records Relating to a Federal Order for Quarantine, Isolation, 
or Conditional Release HHS/CDC received a comment from a flight attendant union concerning 
whether an overlap existed between 
CDC™s maintenance of administrative 
records relating to the issuance of 
Federal public health orders and an 
employee™s access to exposure and 
medical records under OSHA (29 CFR 
1910.1020). We note that since HHS/
CDC is not a flight attendant™s employer, 
HHS/CDC would not be covered by this 
particular OSHA standard under these 
circumstances. Furthermore, because 
these regulations do not alter, define, or 
mandate the employer-employee 
relationship between flight attendants 
and their employers, to the extent that 
this question seeks input regarding an 
employer™s obligations under OSHA, 
HHS/CDC views the question as outside 
the scope of the rulemaking. HHS/CDC received a comment from a partnership of public health legal 
scholars and organizations stating that 
the regulations should require quarterly 
reporting to Congress to facilitate 
transparency and oversight. While CDC 
recognizes the additional transparency 
that direct reporting of details related to 
quarantine activities may provide to the 
public, CDC notes that historically, the 
issuance of Federal orders is rare (i.e., 
one to two orders issued per year). 
Thus, publication of the specifics 
surrounding individual quarantine cases 
may raise significant privacy concerns 
related to the individuals placed under 
federal orders. CDC does routinely describe its practices in published Morbidity and 
Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) 
when new methods, technologies, or 
other changes make it possible to revise 
and improve programs (e.g. DNB, M&M guidance, change in air contact 
investigation algorithms), which all 
serve to enhance transparency. Such 
information is also found on CDC™s Web 
site and publicly available standard 
operating procedures. After consideration of comments received and as further explained 
below, HHS/CDC has modified the 
provisions regarding Administrative 
Records relating to a Federal order for quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release (§§70.17 and 71.29) to remove 

paragraphs (5) regarding agreements 
entered into between HHS/CDC and the 
individual. k. Other Due Process Concerns HHS/CDC received many additional comments from the public concerned over whether this regulation violates rights guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution, such as Due Process and 
specifically during the medical review 
process. HHS/CDC disagrees that the 
regulations are insufficient to protect 
the constitutional rights of individuals. 
In regard to medical reviews, HHS/CDC 
asserts that allowing individuals to 
choose at the government™s expense 
who will conduct the medical review is 
not required by due process and that 
there is no conflict of interest in 
allowing the CDC Director to appoint 
who will conduct the medical review on 
the agency™s behalf. HHS/CDC asserts, 
however, that individuals will be 
allowed to submit relevant information, 
including information provided by 
outside doctors or other medical 
specialists during the medical review. 
HHS/CDC will further preserve relevant 
agency documents for purposes of 
ensuring a competent legal review in the 
event that the individual seeks judicial 
redress of their quarantine or isolation. 
As explained elsewhere, law 
enforcement support for quarantine or 
isolation orders will generally be 
provided by U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection, U.S. Coast Guard, or other 
Federal law enforcement programs, but 
HHS/CDC may also accept voluntary 
state and local assistance in enforcing 
its Federal orders. HHS/CDC received public comment expressing concern with regard to 
potential language barriers experienced 
by foreign nationals during travel. HHS/ CDC responds that it has revised those sections of the regulations dealing with 
issuance of Federal orders to require 
that HHS/CDC arrange for translation or 
interpretation services of the Federal 
order as needed. In circumstances 
where it would be impractical to 
provide a line-by-line translation of the 
order, HHS/CDC may take other steps to 
reasonably apprise individuals of the 
contents of the order, for example, by 
arranging for oral translation services. One public health organization questioned the feasibility of CDC™s 
conducting the mandatory reassessment 
or medical review of a group quarantine 
order within the specified time frame. In 
response, HHS/CDC states that a group 
quarantine order would be issued on the 
basis of a shared exposure for all 
individuals in the group; therefore, the 
mandatory reassessment or medical 
review could be conducted based on the 
shared exposure, unless certain 
individuals in the group were 
determined to be immune to the 
quarantinable communicable disease in 
question. Part of the reassessment 
would include a determination of whether the group order should be 
revised as individual orders. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00028Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6917 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
HHS/CDC also received a comment that the duration of a quarantine, isolation, or conditional release period 
is not adequately defined. HHS/CDC 
disagrees because the regulations limit 
these actions to only those who would 
pose a public health threat, for instance, 
by being in the ‚‚qualifying stage™™ or a 
quarantinable communicable disease. 
The ‚‚qualifying stage™™ of the disease is 
defined as a communicable stage of the 
disease or a precommunicable stage, but 
only if the disease would be likely to 
cause a public health emergency if 
transmitted to other individuals. We 
note that HHS/CDC™s ‚‚Health 
Information for International Travel™™ 
(also known as the Yellow Book) 
provides the public with general 
guidance regarding the expected length 
of communicability for many 
quarantinable communicable diseases. 
For more information, please see http:// wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/yellowbook/2016/table-of-contents. HHS/CDC received a comment that the qualifications of who may issue a 
quarantine or isolation order are not 
defined leading to concerns that such 
orders will be issued by non-medically 
trained personnel. In regard to the 
qualifications of who may issue a 
Federal public health order, HHS/CDC 
notes that all orders are issued under 
the authority of the CDC Director, but 
that in practice such determinations are 
made only by personnel trained in 
public health and licensed to practice 
medicine in the United States. One organization requested that HHS/ CDC provide notification to the appropriate embassy if a foreign 
national is placed under a Federal order. 
In regard to non-resident foreign 
nationals, HHS/CDC clarifies that it will 
coordinate closely with the U.S. 
Department of State to ensure that all 
rights and obligations under the Vienna 
Convention on Consular Relations and 
bilateral agreements will be observed. 
Because of the complexity of this issue, 
including reliance on the interpretation 
of treaties and bilateral agreements, 
HHS/CDC believes that it is best to 
ensure compliance through operational 
procedures, rather than to formalize 
such obligations through regulatory text. One commenter requested that HHS/ CDC clarify its handling of issues relating to diplomatic immunity. HHS/ CDC recognizes that under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, diplomats are not liable to any form of 
‚‚detention.™™ It is HHS/CDC™s policy to 
coordinate closely with the U.S. 
Department of State regarding any 
public health issues arising in regards to 
diplomats and HHS/CDC will continue 
to do so under these regulations. One public health organization recommended that HHS/CDC include 
written notification to individuals under 
public health orders of the duration that 
the order will be in effect. HHS/CDC 
responds that it will provide 
information on the incubation and 
communicability period of the 
quarantinable communicable disease, if 
known, but that the duration of the 
public health order may depend on a 
variety of factors, such as demonstration 
of non-infectiousness through repeated 
laboratory testing. Thus, HHS/CDC is 
unable to provide an exact numerical 
limit (in terms of days or hours) that a 
public health order will remain in 
effect. HHS/CDC received a comment from a partnership of public health legal 
scholars and organizations stating that 
in exigent circumstances HHS/CDC may 
isolate or quarantine an individual, but 
should then be required to hold a 
mandatory due process hearing within 
48 hours before a neutral decision- 
maker. At the outset, HHS/CDC agrees 
with the commenters that the 
appropriate framework for determining 
the adequacy of due process procedures 
are the factors articulated by the 
Supreme Court in Matthews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319 (1976). These factors 
include: (1) The private interest affected 
by the government™s actions; (2) the risk 
of erroneous deprivation of such private 
interest through the procedures used 
and the probable value, if any, of 
additional or substitute procedures; and 
(3) the government™s interest, including 
the function involved and the fiscal and 
administrative burden of proposed 
additional or substitute procedures. 
Concerning the private interest at stake, 
HHS/CDC disagrees that this interest 
should be measured solely in terms of 
the physical liberty of the individual, 
but notes that the private interest also 
includes an interest in receiving 
medical treatment and in not harming 
others, as would occur if the individual 
was communicable. The Federal 
government™s interest, moreover, is 
particularly strong because it is not 
simply guarding the welfare of a single 
individual or even a small group of 
individuals, but rather protecting the 
public at large against the spread of a 
quarantinable communicable disease. 
Most importantly, HHS/CDC believes 
that mandatory administrative hearings 
are unlikely to significantly guard 
against erroneous deprivations. Unlike 
subjective determinations of behavior 
which typically form the basis of a 
mental health ‚‚civil commitment,™™ 
isolation and quarantine decisions are 
based on objective criteria such as manifestations of physical illness or laboratory test results. Thus, weighing 
these factors, HHS/CDC disagrees that 
due process requires it to adopt a system 
of mandatory administrative hearings in 
the absence of the individual requesting 
a medical review. Regarding the use of a ‚‚neutral™™ decision maker, HHS/CDC restates that 
the definition of both ‚‚representatives™™ 
and ‚‚medical reviewer™™ would in fact 
allow for the appointment of non-HHS/ CDC employees in these capacities. The regulations, moreover, explicitly state 
that the medical reviewer will not be the 
same individual who initially 
authorized the quarantine or isolation 
order. Accordingly, HHS/CDC has 
determined that the procedures it has 
adopted for medical reviews comport 
with due process. l. Privacy Several people commented on the private nature of the doctor-patient relationship. HHS/CDC appreciates the 
opportunity to respond to this concern. 
HHS/CDC is charged with protecting the 
health of the public. At times, this 
requires obtaining private information 
about people™s health or exposure 
history and taking certain actions to 
protect others from becoming sick with 
a communicable disease. HHS/CDC 
works closely with State and local 
health departments to ensure that ill 
people detained or isolated under 
Federal orders receive appropriate care 
and treatment. HHS/CDC is also bound 
by the Privacy Act to protect personally 
identifiable information collected and maintained under that Act. For a more 
detailed explanation of how such 
information is protected, please see 
http://www.cdc.gov/sornnotice/09-20- 
0171.htm. For information on the 
retention and maintenance of such 
records, please see https://
www.archives.gov/records-mgmt/rcs. HHS/CDC received a comment from a professor of public health law and 
ethics stating that HHS/CDC should 
address how the HIPAA Privacy Rule, 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), 
and Administrative Procedure Act 
(APA) counterbalance the powers set 
forth in the proposal and reflect 
‚‚appropriate social distancing 
practices.™™ The commenter did not 
highlight which specific provisions of 
these laws HHS/CDC should address or 
the relationship that these laws have to 
social distancing. Notwithstanding, 
HHS/CDC may generally state that these 
regulations will be carried out 
consistent with Federal law. We note that HHS is a hybrid entity under HIPAA, but only those parts of 
the Department that have been VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00029Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6918 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
determined to be health care components are subject to the HIPAA 
Privacy Rule. CDC is generally not a 
health care component treated as a 
‚‚covered entity™™ under the HIPAA 
Privacy Rule. However, certain specific 
offices of HHS, CDC, and the National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and 
Health (NIOSH) performing activities 
related to the World Trade Center 
Health Program are considered health 
care components of HHS and must 
comply with HIPAA and the Privacy 
Rule. CDC most often acts as a public health authority under the HIPAA Privacy 
Rule. During the course of a public 
health investigation it may seek the 
support of a covered entity, such as a 
hospital or private physician. The 
HIPAA Privacy Rule permits the 
disclosure of public health information 
to public health authorities, such as the 
CDC, and their authorized agents for 
public health purposes including but 
not limited to public health 
surveillance, investigations, and 
interventions. More information 
concerning the HIPAA Privacy Rule 
may be found here: http://www.cdc.gov/ mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/m2e411a1.htm. Similarly, we note that this final rule while formalizing administrative 
policies and practices, does not affect 
the rights of individuals under the ADA 
or APA, which are statutes enacted by 
Congress. One commenter opined that 
collection of contact information as part 
of public health prevention measures 
and maintenance of administrative 
records raise privacy concerns and that 
HHS/CDC should consider ‚‚super- 
enhanced privacy protections™™ 
consistent with the Model State Public 
Health Privacy Act of 1999. HHS/CDC 
disagrees. As a Federal agency, HHS/CDC must abide by the laws established 
by Congress for the protection of 
records, specifically the Privacy Act of 
1974, 5 U.S.C. 552. On December 13, 
2007, HHS/CDC published a system of 
records notice (72 FR 70867) under the 
Privacy Act describing, among other 
things, safeguards for preventing the 
unauthorized use of information 
collected from travelers. HHS/CDC will 
make disclosures from this system only 
with the consent of the subject 
individual, in accordance with routine 
uses published in its system notice, or 
in accordance with an applicable 
exception under the Privacy Act. m. Payment for Care and Treatment HHS/CDC received several comments relating to payment for medical expenses. One commenter stated that 
HHS/CDC should assume payment for all related medical expenses, housing costs, and other necessities for 
individuals or groups subject to 
deprivations of liberty and that it is 
‚‚ethically unfair™™ for HHS/CDC to be 
the ‚‚payer of last resort.™™ Another 
commenter stated that ‚‚CDC must 
guarantee financial help after third party 
payments are exhausted.™™ While HHS/
CDC acknowledges that it has an ethical, 
moral, and legal obligation to provide 
care and treatment for individuals under 
a Federal quarantine or isolation order, 
HHS/CDC disagrees that it is ‚‚ethically 
unfair™™ to excuse a medical insurer or 
other entity with a contractual 
obligation from paying for medical 
expenses. Accordingly, HHS/CDC has 
determined that it is appropriate for it 
to maintain and affirm its status as a 
‚‚payer of last resort.™™ Two public health organizations asked whether nonmedical costs such as 
training of staff, replenishing of 
personal protective equipment, 
managing and disposing of biological 
waste and contaminated supplies, etc., 
are also subject to HHS/CDC payment 
authorization. While the costs of care 
and treatment of individual patients 
under Federal public health orders are 
authorized by this rule, these additional 
costs to the extent that they are 
unrelated to the individual patient™s 
treatment and care would not be 
covered by this rule. HHS/CDC received a comment suggesting that the regulations allow for 
charging detainees the medical and 
hospital costs of nonconsensual 
treatment. HHS/CDC disagrees and first, 
clarifies that these regulations do not 
authorize compulsory medical 
treatment. HHS/CDC further 
acknowledges that constitutional 
principles and medical ethics require 
that those detained under isolation or 
quarantine have access to adequate 
nourishment, appropriate 
accommodation, and medical treatment. 
However, HHS/CDC has determined 
that its obligation to pay for medical 
care and treatment should be secondary 
to the obligation of any third party, such 
as a medical insurer that may have a 
pre-existing contractual obligation with 
the patient to pay for hospital expenses. 
Accordingly, HHS/CDC declines to 
make any changes to the provisions authorizing payment for medical care 
and treatment. A flight attendant union commented that HHS/CDC should pay for any 
outside costs that the flight attendant 
would normally incur relating to 
medical treatment, e.g., copayments, deductibles. HHS/CDC declines this 
suggestion and notes that while it is not 
HHS/CDC™s intent to unduly burden individuals with the costs of their own isolation or quarantine, payment for 
expenses will be made consistent with 
constitutional and ethical obligations to 
provide for the basic necessities, e.g., 
food, medical treatment, for those 
subject to such public health orders. 
Furthermore, these regulations do not 
alter, define, or modify the contractual 
relationship between insurance 
companies and the insured. After consideration of these comments, HHS/CDC has finalized the 
provisions relating to payment for care 
and treatment (§§70.13 and 71.30) as 

proposed. n. Agreements HHS/CDC received comments relating to the intention and use of agreements. Commenters worried that such ‚‚agreements™™ may be coerced, and 
individuals would be compelled to 
submit to involuntary testing or 
‚‚research projects.™™ One commenter 
stated that the definition of agreement is 
circular and confusing because the word 
‚‚agreement™™ appears in the definition. 
This commenter also suggested that 
what HHS/CDC proposes should more 
aptly be labeled as an ‚‚Affidavit™™ or 
‚‚Affirmation™™ because the definition as 
proposed by HHS/CDC lacks bilateral 
obligations on both parties. Due to the number of public comments received expressing 
confusion over this public health 
measure, HHS/CDC has removed the 
provisions on Agreements (70.18 and 71.40), and modified other provisions of 
the final rule (70.1, 71.1(b), and 70.5) to 
remove references to ‚‚agreements.™™ o. Penalties Many commenters expressed concern over the penalties provisions contained within the proposed regulation. 
Specifically, one association objected to 
‚‚CDC™s proposed increase in penalties.™™ 
Another stated that ‚‚CDC is not 
qualified to decide upon the 
punishment.™™ HHS/CDC takes this time 
to better explain that the penalties listed 
in today™s final rule, which have been 
codified as proposed, are set forth by 
Congress via statutory language and 
codified into regulation to reflect 
current practice. This regulation serves 
to notify the public of the existing 
statutory penalties for violation of 
quarantine regulations, which HHS/CDC 
has no authority to change. One organization requested that language be added to rules regarding the 
issuance of penalties if an employer 
provides an ‚‚unsafe work or 
unhealthful working condition.™™ HHS/
CDC responds that such penalties are 
beyond the scope of this rule and refers VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00030Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6919 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
the commenter to regulations of the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration. HHS/CDC received a comment from a flight attendant union regarding 
criminal penalties stating that HHS/CDC 
should provide further clarification as to 
what constitutes a violation and clarify 
that flight attendants who act in 
accordance with their company™s 
practices, policies, or procedures should 
not be held criminally liable. In 
response, HHS/CDC notes that while the 
text of the regulation is being updated, 
these regulations do not increase the 
criminal penalties that may be imposed 
for violations of quarantine regulations 
or alter the manner in which liability 
may be assessed. Rather, these 
regulations serve to inform the public of 
the criminal penalties that currently 
exist in statute (42 U.S.C. 271 and 18 
U.S.C. 3571). Furthermore, HHS/CDC 
clarifies that criminal penalties, if any, 
would be assessed by a court of law 
based on an indictment or information 
filed by an Assistant U.S. Attorney 
based on individualized facts and 
circumstances, and would not be 
determined administratively by the 
CDC. HHS/CDC offers the following explanation to inform the public 
regarding this section. As prescribed in 
section 368 (42 U.S.C. 271) and under 
18 U.S.C. 3559 and 3571(c), criminal 
sanctions exist for violating regulations 
enacted under sections 361 and 362 (42 
U.S.C. 264 and 265). 18 U.S.C. 3559 
defines an offense (not otherwise 
classified by letter grade) as a ‚‚Class A 
misdemeanor™™ if the maximum term of 
imprisonment is ‚‚one year or less but 
more than six months.™™ 18 U.S.C. 3571 
provides that individuals found guilty 
of an offense may be sentenced to a fine. 
Specifically, an individual may be fined 
‚‚not more than the greatest of™™Š(1) the 
amount specified in the law setting forth 
the offense; or (2) for a misdemeanor 
resulting in death, not more than 
$250,000; or (3) for a Class A 
misdemeanor that does not result in 
death, not more than $100,000. 
Similarly, an organization, found guilty 
of an offense may be fined ‚‚not more 
than the greatest of™™Š(1) the amount 
specified in the law setting forth the 
offense; or (2) for a misdemeanor 
resulting in a death, not more than 
$500,000; or (3) for a Class A 
misdemeanor that does not result in 
death, not more than $200,000. 42 
U.S.C. 271 sets forth statutory penalties 
of up to 1 year in jail and a fine of 
$1,000. Therefore, it is classified as a 
Class A misdemeanor under 18 U.S.C. 3559. Because the alternate fines set 
forth under 18 U.S.C. 3571 are greater than the $1,000 set forth under 42 U.S.C. 271 (which sets a maximum 
penalty of not more than $1,000 or one 
year of jail, or both for violation of 
quarantine laws), and because 42 U.S.C. 
271 does not exempt its lower penalties 
from 18 U.S.C. 3571(e), HHS/CDC has 
chosen to codify the greater penalties of 
18 U.S.C. 3571(b)(5) and (c)(5) and to 
remove the lower penalties as stated in 
42 CFR 71.2 from the regulation. After consideration of these comments, HHS/CDC has finalized the 
provisions relating to Penalties (70.18 and 71.2) as proposed. Penalties has been moved to section 70.18, since 
proposed 70.18 Agreements has been removed from this final rule. p. Economic Impact Within the analysis published with the NPRM, HHS/CDC solicited public comment regarding the cost and benefit 
estimates for airlines and vessel 
operators associated with improved 
provision of traveler contact data. While 
HHS/CDC received support for the data 
collection from two public health 
associations, HHS/CDC received a 
comment from industry who misread 
the proposals to mean that aircraft 
operators would be required to develop 
new capacity and processes to capture 
and store a comprehensive set of 
sensitive data, archive this data, and 
then provide it to CDC. HHS/CDC restates and clarifies that today™s final rule does not impose any 
new burdens upon the airline industry 
but rather, codifies the current practice 
of receiving a passenger manifest order 
(if needed, as CDC currently collects passenger information from CBP via 
APIS and PNR) and providing HHS/CDC 
with any data in an airline™s possession. 
This regulatory impact analysis has 
been revised to clarify that the rule does 
not require an airline to solicit or store 
additional data. Therefore, HHS/CDC 
does not expect that formalizing its 
current data collection practices will 
increase costs. Neither airlines nor U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection (CBP) 
will need to develop new data systems 
nor will travelers need to provide data 
as part of the ‚‚check in process.™™ The same industry organization also commented that they have been 
complying effectively with the existing 
requirements, but have, on occasion 
found it difficult to locate, extract, 
compile, format and transmit available 
information within the timeframe 
specified in orders from HHS/CDC. 
They note that delays sometimes arise 
because the manifest order may contain 
incorrect flight or passenger 
information. The discussion in the 
regulatory impact analysis section has been revised to note that delays in compliance with manifest order 
requirements may result from HHS/CDC 
having incorrect traveler information in 
the manifest order. The same industry organization also reports that all of the data available to 
them related to passengers are currently 
transmitted as Advance Passenger 
Information System (APIS), and 
potentially under Passenger Name 
Record (PNR), data to the Department of 
Homeland Security (DHS) and that there 
is no reason to burden airlines with an 
order for passenger data. HHS/CDC 
recognizes that industry does submit 
certain passenger data to DHS and it is 
not our intent to burden industry with 
duplicative requirements, but rather to 
effectively and efficiently protect public 
health. In the experience of the HHS/
CDC, queries from APIS/PNR rarely 
result in full sets of contact information 
(i.e. the record includes all five additional data fields as outlined in the 
final rule). The data fields that are most 
commonly missing from the records are 
email addresses (missing 90 percent of 
the time), secondary phone number 
(missing 90 percent of the time), and 
street addresses (missing or insufficient 
for public health contact tracing up to 
50 percent of the time). These data 
elements are vital to a contact tracing 
investigation. In looking at a random 
sample of 20% of the compiled 
international air travel manifests for 
2015, those including a compiled data 
set from NTC and the airlines, 100% 
were missing at least one of the 5 data 
fields. Email address and secondary 
phone number were among those most frequently missing. For context, there 
were approximately 760,000 scheduled 
flights that arrived into the United 
States in 2015. In 2015, CDC issued 
passenger manifest requests for 64 
international flights arriving into the 
United States. As noted in the RIA of 
the final rule, from 2010 to 2015, CDC 
conducted an average of 77 contact 
investigations per year involving 
arriving international flights. Airlines are contacted for the majority of contact investigations using a 
manifest order document. At a 
minimum, CDC needs to confirm the ill 
traveler was on the flight and where the 
individual sat in relation to other 
travelers to determine risk of exposure. In CDC™s experience the following has been true: •Only airlines can quickly and efficiently produce a partial manifest 
targeting affected rows; •only airlines can confirm identity of ‚‚babes in arms™™ and their co-travelers 
(Parent); this is important for measles 
cases; VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00031Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6920 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
•only airlines can quickly confirm whether an individual actually flew (in instances where individuals deplane 
and do not re-board during a layover); 
and •only airlines can confirm a plane™s configuration if there is a question with 
the provided row numbers. Different 
aircraft have different seating 
arrangements depending on carrier and 
layout. It is important to know if a 
certain seat is separated by a bulkhead 
or is a window seat. In addition, HHS/CDC only requires a partial manifest, e.g. 5 rows for travelers with infectious tuberculosis, so that 
NTC and HHS/CDC staff can limit the 
investigation to only those passengers at 
risk and supplement/cross reference 
with APIS and PNR data. If a partial 
manifest is not available from the 
airlines, then each passenger record 
must be researched individually to find 
a seat number, and then the 
configuration of an entire plane must be 
populated to determine where the index 
case sat in relation to other at-risk 
passengers. For large flights from Asia, 
this can pose a tremendous burden to 
NTC and CDC staff while slowing the 
ability of CDC to provide important 
contact information to state and local 
health departments. Manually 
populating multiple 300+ person flights 
is not feasible in a timely manner. As part of its plan for retrospective analysis under E.O. 13563, HHS/CDC 
intends to synthesize, analyze, and 
report within the next two years on 
strategies to reduce duplication of the 
collection of passenger/crew manifest 
information in coordination with DHS/ CBP. The report will include any recommendations (e.g., IT systems improvements to facilitate enhanced 
search capabilities of passenger data, 
increased efficiency to relay passenger 
data, improvements to the existing 
CDCŒCBP MOU) to ensure that the 
collection of passenger or crew manifest 
information do not unduly burden 
airlines, vessels, and other affected 
entities. HHS/CDC intends to seek 
public comment on the report and any 
recommendations regarding the costs 
and benefits of activities implemented 
in 42 CFR parts 71.4 and 71.5. Estimates 
of both costs and benefits in the NPRM 
regulatory impact analysis were not very 
large because HHS/CDC is not implementing a new data collection 
requirement. The regulatory impact 
analysis for the final rule has been 
revised to reflect that HHS/CDC will 
work with CBP to search for responsive 
data to avoid duplicative data 
requirements. Estimates of costs in the 
revised regulatory impact analysis have 
not been revised because the airline industry did not provide any new information regarding costs to search for 
responsive data when receiving 
manifest orders. The benefit estimate 
has been revised and is lower than the 
estimate for the NPRM to indicate that 
the airlines may not have any more 
contact data than is already provided in 
APIS or PNR data submitted to DHS. HHS/CDC received a number of comments from the general public that 
compared the relatively small number of 
measles cases in any given year to the 
total numbers of vaccine-associated 
adverse events and health department 
spending to contain measles outbreaks. 
Based on this comparison, commenters 
believed that HHS/CDC and health 
departments spend too much money on 
communicable disease control and that 
resources would be better allocated to 
other activities. Some commenters 
suggested that the costs of these adverse 
events should be included in a Small 
Business Regulatory Enforcement 
Fairness Act analysis. In general, this 
type of analysis is outside the scope of 
this regulatory impact analysis because 
this final rule does not require measles 
vaccination. HHS/CDC™s recommended 
vaccine schedule will not be affected by 
this final rule. Although HHS/CDC 
recommends that health departments 
offer measles vaccine to non-immune 
individuals exposed during travel, 
measles is not a quarantinable 
communicable disease and this final 
rule does not require any individual to 
receive a measles vaccine. Because 
health departments offer measles 
vaccines to exposed, non-immune 
travelers, HHS/CDC estimates that the 
final rule will only result in a small 
number (6) of additional measles 
vaccines. The costs of procuring and 
administering these vaccines is 
included in the analysis. As noted in the regulatory impact analysis, there are only 564 travelers 
exposed to measles during international 
travel in a given year. Most of these 
travelers will already have immunity to 
measles and the final rule is only 
expected to have a small impact on the 
ability of health departments to contact 
travelers. The total costs of all measles 
vaccine-associated adverse events is 
outside the scope of the analysis for this 
final rule as mentioned above. One commenter suggested that the cost estimates for the NPRM were too low because the analysis did not 
account for reduced willingness to 
travel if vaccines against measles and 
other communicable diseases are 
required to travel. HHS/CDC disagrees 
with this suggestion because 
vaccination is not a requirement in this 
final rule. HHS/CDC has on occasion requested that DHS/TSA restrict interstate or international air travel for 
people known to be infectious with 
measles who were noncompliant with 
public health recommendations not to 
travel. However, HHS/CDC does not 
recommend restricting the air travel of 
persons who have not received the 
measles vaccine. One commenter questioned whether the estimated value of statistical life 
($9.4 million) should be multiplied by 
the total number of measles vaccine- 
associated adverse events in the United 
States. HHS/CDC appreciates this 
thoughtful comment. This would result 
in a larger estimate in the cost of 
measles vaccine-associated adverse 
events. However, this is not a correct 
usage of the value of statistical life, 
which should only be multiplied by an 
estimated number of deaths. The 
regulatory impact analysis has been 
revised to better explain this distinction. Another commenter suggested that public health department measles 
response costs were overestimated by 
using a model-based approach rather 
than estimating the cost of hiring of 
additional staff to deal with measles 
outbreaks. HHS/CDC addressed the 
comment in the regulatory impact 
analysis by clarifying that the analysis is 
a published model-based analysis and 
that the cost estimate is based on the 
opportunity cost of public health 
personnel and is not based on the cost 
of hiring additional staff. HHS/CDC received comments from the airline industry indicating that the 
definition of ill person under 71.1 does 
align with Note 1 to Standard 8.15 of 
ICAO™s Annex 9 to the Convention on 
International Civil Aviation. HHS/CDC 
also received comments from the airline 
industry regarding the change to the 
definition of ill person under 70.1 for 
interstate flights contending that these 
changes would increase costs. 
Specifically, the airline industry 
reported that not only does the 
expansion of the definition of ill person 
place a greater burden on airline staff, 
the ambiguity of that definition 
amplifies the burden or at least raises 
questions as to the particular obligations 
of the flight crew to determine if 
someone is an ‚‚ill person.™™ Moreover, 
the airline industry wanted to know 
whether flight crews have an obligation to conduct a physical examination of 
the passenger to determine fever. The 
airline industry also noted that under 
the OSHA blood borne pathogens 
standard, employers are prohibited from 
exposing crewmembers to blood or 
other potentially infectious materials. 
The airline industry also questioned 
whether the fever-related illness VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00032Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6921 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
reporting in the proposal would require that all carriers have the equipment 
(thermometers) onboard to determine 
fever. The proposal, as noted, has two 
other ways to identify fever (warm to 
touch or history of fever) which the 
airline industry wanted to ensure would 
remain viable options within the final 
rule. HHS/CDC notes that there is no expectation that flight crews should 
perform physical examinations as part 
of illness reporting. HHS/CDC also notes 
that the non-thermometer (warm to 
touch or history of fever) remain in the 
final rule. Regarding the potential for 
increased costs associated with the 
change in illness reporting for interstate 
flights, HHS/CDC notes that the current 
illness reporting requirements for 
interstate travel appear in 42 CFR 70.4 
and state that ‚‚The master of any vessel 
or person in charge of any conveyance 
engaged in interstate traffic, on which a 
case or suspected case of a 
communicable disease develops shall, 
as soon as practicable, notify the local 
health authority at the next port of call, 
station, or stop, and shall take such 
measures to prevent the spread of the 
disease as the local health authority 
directs.™™ Communicable disease is 
defined in current 42 CFR 70.1 as 
‚‚illnesses due to infectious agents or 
their toxic products, which may be 
transmitted from a reservoir to a 
susceptible host either directly as from 
an infected person or animal or 
indirectly through an intermediate plant 
or animal host, vector, or the inanimate 
environment.™™ The changes in this final rule will not result in substantially increased costs 
because airlines would either: (1) Be 
complying with the current regulatory 
requirement and report all cases or 
suspected cases of communicable 
disease to local health departments; or 
(2) report illnesses according to HHS/
CDC guidance available at http://
www.cdc.gov/quarantine/air/reporting- 
deaths-illness/guidance-reporting- 
onboard-deaths-illnesses.html, which is 
codified in this final rule. HHS/CDC 
notes that changes in this final rule 
align the symptoms requested for 
international and interstate illness 
reporting. In addition, according to 
guidance, reports received by HHS/CDC 
would be considered sufficient to satisfy 
the requirement to report to local health 
departments because HHS/CDC will 
coordinate response activities with the 
local health department after receiving 
an illness report. In response to these 
comments, HHS/CDC increased the 
expected number of illness reports in the upper bound analysis regulatory 
impact analysis for the final rule. This upper bound analysis finds that a 100% increase in info-only reports and 50% 
increase in reports requiring response 
would result in a marginal cost of 
$20,573 for airlines and vessel 
operators. This cost is negligible 
compared to the annual revenue of the 
international air and maritime travel 
markets. HHS/CDC also received a 
comment to include the cost of training 
for illness reporting in the regulatory 
impact analysis. HHS/CDC notes that 
illness reporting is already required 
under existing regulations and the 
changes in this final rule more closely 
align with ICAO guidance for illness 
reporting for international flights and 
represent a reduction in burden for 
interstate flights, where reporting of all 
cases or suspected cases of 
communicable diseases is required. 
HHS/CDC added an estimate of training 
costs to the upper bound cost analysis 
for airlines (an annualized $356,000 per 
year). HHS/CDC received a comment from a local health department concerning the 
rationale for reporting all illnesses and 
deaths that occur on interstate flights. 
This health department asked whether 
evaluating illnesses and deaths that 
occur on interstate flights may lead to 
an increase in costs for State and local 
health departments. HHS/CDC does not 
anticipate an increase in costs for State 
and local health departments because 
evaluating illnesses and deaths 
occurring on interstate flights is 
consistent with existing HHS/CDC 
guidance and represents a less 
restrictive alternative compared to the 
existing reporting requirement in 42 
CFR 70.4. Furthermore, the costs to 
State and local health departments may 
decrease if HHS/CDC is able to filter out 
reports that do not require a public 
health response, which airlines would 
have previously reported directly to the 
health departments under 42 CFR 70.4. 
If there is an increase in the number of 
illness reports requiring a public health 
response, HHS/CDC believes the costs to 
health departments may decrease if the 
health department is notified earlier. A public health research center questioned the value of nonmedical 
personnel being able to differentiate 
Ebola, Middle East respiratory 
syndrome (MERS) or measles from other 
medical issues. HHS/CDC appreciates 
the concern and notes that the final rule 
aligns the illness reporting requirement 
with international guidelines and 
represents a reduced burden for illness 
reporting on interstate flights compared 
to current regulatory language as 
mentioned above. The intent of illness reporting is not to diagnose disease 
during flight, but rather to identify a limited number of instances in which it 
would be advantageous to follow up 
with ill travelers for an assessment upon 
disembarkation. The current numbers of 
illness reports received are summarized 
in the regulatory impact analysis and 
the number of reports is not expected to 
increase significantly because the 
regulatory text will better align with 
publically available HHS/CDC guidance. A number of comments from the public questioned whether there would 
be a huge cost resulting from the broad 
definition of ill person. These commenters expressed concern that 
misdiagnosis by non-medically trained 
personnel would lead to reduced travel 
based on the public™s fear of being 
wrongly detained by public health 
officials. HHS/CDC notes that illness 
reporting is already required for both 
interstate and international travel. We 
note that travelers are not placed under 
public health orders simply as a result 
of an illness report. Rather, orders are 
issued only if a licensed medical officer 
based on a public health risk assessment 
has sufficient reason to believe that the 
individual is infected with a 
quarantinable communicable disease. In 
addition, the new definition is 
consistent with existing international 
guidelines and HHS/CDC guidance. 
Thus, HHS/CDC does not believe the 
changes to illness reporting will result 
in a large burden to the general public. 
The cost analysis in the regulatory 
impact analysis has been updated to 
include the cost to travelers involved in 
public health follow-up after an illness 
report. One commenter opposed the rule because of a perceived negative 
economic and/or social impact upon 
individuals placed under a public 
health order. Regarding the social 
impact of the individual who may be 
ostracized, HHS/CDC notes that public 
health measures such as quarantine and 
isolation are not new concepts or 
practices, HHS/CDC has been 
implementing these measures to protect 
public health for many years. We 
reemphasize that one compelling reason 
for the publication of this final rule is 
to make ‚‚quarantine™™ and ‚‚isolation™™ 
better understood by the public so that 
these terms, its purposes, and meanings 
become more familiar and thereby 
decrease public anxiety over these 
important protections. For the same 
reason, HHS/CDC does not believe the 
provisions in the final rule will increase 
or decrease the cost of isolation or 
quarantine. HHS/CDC does provide an 
estimate of traveler cost in the sections 
describing Ebola entry enhanced risk 
assessment and management and illness VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00033Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6922 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
reports in the regulatory impact analysis. One commenter suggested that the costs incurred by airlines would be 
passed along to the general U.S. 
population purchasing tickets for air 
travel. HHS/CDC concurs and mentions 
this possibility in the regulatory impact 
analysis. However, changes included in 
this final rule are a codification of a 
current practice and estimated total 
costs are only $11,000 to $431,000 per 
year. Thus, significant changes in ticket 
prices are not expected. One commenter suggested that changes in infectious disease caseloads 
would not result in cost savings to 
public health agencies or individuals 
because there is already a public health 
workforce in place. HHS/CDC calculates 
such costs based on the opportunity cost 
of public health staff under the 
presumption that such staff would be 
involved in other productive activities if 
not spending time addressing outbreaks. HHS/CDC solicited comment from the public regarding potential public 
willingness to pay to be contacted in the 
event of an exposure to a communicable 
disease during travel. This was done to 
help estimate the potential benefit to the 
public of HHS/CDC™s efforts to work 
with health departments to contact 
travelers exposed to meningococcal 
disease, viral hemorrhagic fevers, MERS 
or other severe acute respiratory 
syndromes, measles, and tuberculosis, 
among other diseases. HHS/CDC 
received a number of comments from 
several individuals that they believe 
public health measures to mitigate 
measles transmission are unnecessary. 
Some individuals also noted that Ebola 
and MERS cases in the United States 
have not led to widespread 
transmission. These commenters either 
indicated or inferred that they would be 
unwilling to pay to be informed of 
potential communicable disease 
exposures during travel. The discussion 
in the regulatory impact analysis has 
been updated to incorporate this feedback. HHS/CDC solicited public comment on willingness to pay to reduce Ebola 
risk in the United States to near zero if 
another international outbreak of Ebola 
with widespread transmission occurs in 
the future. HHS/CDC received 
comments from an organization 
representing flight attendants indicating 
that they believe it is in the public 
interest to reduce Ebola risk in the 
United States to near zero in the event 
of a future outbreak. They indicated that 
there is no reason to believe that 
achieving this objective would require 
unsustainable levels of funding. HHS/
CDC incorporated this comment regarding public willingness to pay in the regulatory impact analysis. HHS/CDC also received comments from several individuals regarding the 
high cost of the measures taken to 
reduce the risk of Ebola transmission in 
the United States during the 2014Œ2016 
Ebola epidemic in West Africa. Several 
of these commenters indicated they had 
zero willingness to pay for future public 
health measures in the event of a large 
Ebola outbreak. Many commenters stressed the need to reassess whether to implement such 
activities in the event of a future Ebola 
outbreak. An example of such 
comments is provided by a research 
center studying international response 
efforts to emerging infectious disease 
threats, who noted that despite 99% 
complete active monitoring by health 
departments, there was no evidence of 
incident Ebola cases among individuals 
traveling from Ebola-affected countries. 
This does not include the two incident 
cases that preceded active monitoring. 
The commenters state that given this 
evidence it is not advisable for HHS/
CDC to recommend active monitoring in 
the event of future Ebola outbreaks. In addition, a public health research center cautioned against extrapolating 
costs and benefits calculation methods 
for measles and tuberculosis to Ebola, 
MERS, and other rare diseases. The 
research center further noted that 
countermeasures for Ebola and MERS 
do not exist (other than isolation and 
quarantine). They suggest that this 
would limit the effectiveness of point of 
entry measures. These researchers also 
point to the fact that transmission of 
Ebola and MERS has not occurred 
during air travel. They noted that point of entry risk assessment programs may 
increase anxiety (and costs) if cases are 
detected in the community after the 
implementation of point of entry 
measures. Finally, the research center 
noted that the costs for State and local 
health departments to actively monitor 
all arriving travelers for 21 days were 
not included in the analysis. In response to these comments, HHS/ CDC concurs that it would not be wise to directly extrapolate approaches for 
measles and tuberculosis to rare 
diseases and has tried to provide as 
much information as possible around 
the decision to implement the Ebola risk 
assessment program and 
recommendations for active monitoring. 
HHS/CDC did not simply extrapolate 
the analysis for measles and 
tuberculosis to Ebola. HHS/CDC does not have data on State and local spending to achieve the 
objective of the 21-day active 
monitoring program and concedes that the cost of active monitoring would likely exceed the costs incurred at the 
airports. However, HHS/CDC did 
provide an estimate of total Federal 
spending for both domestic and 
international efforts to attempt to 
quantify the cost of these efforts. Federal 
money was used to support State/local 
surveillance efforts. Federal money was 
also used to support improvements in 
laboratory capacity by States and 
hospital infection control efforts, which 
should have benefits beyond the 2014Œ 
2016 Ebola epidemic. In addition, 
Federal funding supported research into 
potential Ebola vaccines and medicines. 
The cost for the Ebola enhanced entry 
risk assessment program was just a 
portion of these costs and HHS/CDC 
acknowledges that risk assessment 
program at airports by itself would have 
limited potential to reduce risk. 
However, HHS/CDC also notes that the 
costs of Ebola entry risk assessment at 
points of entry included efforts to (1) 
stratify travelers by risk level so that 
health departments could focus more 
intense monitoring efforts on travelers at 
higher risk and (2) educate travelers on 
Ebola risk factors and symptoms and 
provide informational materials, a 
thermometer, and a telephone to all 
travelers to improve compliance with 
active monitoring efforts. This led to a 
higher cost, but more effective program 
relative to an alternative in which 
travelers would only be screened once 
at the airport, such as occurred in other 
countries implementing screening 
programs during the 2003 Severe Acute 
Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) 
epidemic. HHS/CDC believes that the risk of Ebola infection in the U.S. population 
was potentially reduced because of the 
combination of measures to protect 
against Ebola transmission in the United 
States, including risk assessment at 
ports of entry. HHS/CDC acknowledges 
the risk was probably very low in the 
absence of domestic activities. HHS/CDC further notes that it recommended active monitoring of 
travelers as a less restrictive alternative 
to more stringent measures such as 
quarantines that were being demanded 
by some members of the public. 
Widespread implementation of 
quarantine, particularly for healthcare workers crucial to the response efforts 
in West Africa and the United States, 
would have greatly hampered outbreak 
control measures by providing a strong 
disincentive to healthcare workers 
participating in the response. To estimate the potential benefits of the Ebola risk assessment program at 
ports of entry, HHS/CDC provided a cost 
comparison of the incident Ebola cases VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00034Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6923 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
that occurred in Texas compared to New York to estimate the difference in costs 
between an Ebola case that was detected 
quickly and treated in a pre-selected 
hospital identified to be capable of 
Ebola treatment in comparison to an 
Ebola infection that was not initially 
suspected to be Ebola leading to 
community exposures and hospital 
exposures in a hospital that was not a 
pre-selected hospital capable of Ebola 
treatment. HHS/CDC also examined the recent MERS outbreak in South Korea to 
demonstrate that even relatively small 
outbreaks of rare diseases such as MERS 
and Ebola can have large economic costs 
despite a relatively small number of 
cases and deaths. HHS/CDC found that 
the number of international travelers 
(non-Korean citizens traveling to South 
Korea) decreased by 40Œ50% during the 
peak months of the 2015 MERS 
outbreak. HHS/CDC further notes that 
these declines in travel occurred in the 
absence of widespread travel 
restrictions. The costs incurred by South 
Korea during the outbreak were used to 
demonstrate the potential costs of a 
larger Ebola outbreak in the United 
States. Given the evidence from the programs implemented to mitigate risk during the 
2014Œ16 Ebola epidemic, i.e., the small number of international air travelers 
from countries with widespread Ebola 
transmission that later developed Ebola 
and the very limited risk of transmission 
by asymptomatic individuals with Ebola 
infection, HHS/CDC may not elect to 
implement an Ebola entry risk 
assessment program in the event of a 
future outbreak or to recommend 21-day 
active monitoring of travelers from 
countries with widespread 
transmission. HHS/CDC emphasizes that it will continue to consider cost and work with 
multiple U.S. government agencies, as 
well as with airport authorities and 
health departments in U.S. States and 
territories, to apply the latest evidence 
to future decision-making. In addition, 
HHS/CDC will try to employ the least 
restrictive measures to achieve public 
health objectives. HHS/CDC notes that, 
during the period that the Ebola entry 
risk assessment and monitoring program 
was in effect, only 0.08% (29/38,344) of 
travelers assessed at U.S. airports were recommended for medical evaluation at 
hospitals and that no Federal quarantine 
or isolation orders were issued during 
the epidemic, although some States did 
issue such orders under their own 
authorities. These considerations have 
been added to the regulatory impact 
analysis in the final rule. Since this 
analysis concerns a codification of existing authorities, this analysis has been moved to a separate appendix after 
incorporating public feedback. A number of commenters suggested that HHS/CDC did not include the cost 
for people participating in the Ebola 
enhanced risk assessment program. 
However, HHS/CDC did provide such 
an analysis of these costs. One public 
commenter suggested that the 
psychological cost of quarantine should 
be considered in the economic impact 
analysis. Although HHS/CDC generally 
concurs with the idea of accounting for 
all of the costs associated with time 
spent in quarantine, HHS/CDC™s 
authority to issue quarantine orders will 
not change with the publication of this 
final rule. Thus, this final rule does not 
incur new psychological costs for 
persons under quarantine orders. HHS/CDC notes the opportunity costs for persons undergoing risk assessment 
at airports and/or evaluation at hospitals 
during the 2014Œ16 Ebola entry risk 
assessment and management program. 
HHS/CDC estimates their opportunity 
costs based on average wage rates, but 
did not have additional data to estimate 
a marginal psychological cost. 
Opportunity costs were also estimated 
for a more restrictive option compared 
to the Ebola entry risk assessment and 
management program, i.e. a suspension of entry for 21 days after having been in 
an Ebola-affected country. One commenter suggested that this rulemaking does not represent the ‚‚least 
burden on society™™ because HHS/CDC 
has failed to clearly identify a 
‚‚compelling public need™™ for the rule. 
HHS/CDC appreciates the comment and 
responds that the regulatory impact 
analysis cites a specific market failure 
addressed by this final rule. The market 
failure is that the costs associated with 
the spread of communicable diseases 
impacts the entire U.S. population, not 
just the group of persons currently 
infected with communicable diseases. 
Since this final rule is primarily 
implementing current practice, HHS/CDC does not anticipate major new 
benefits or costs. One commenter stated that the cost/ benefit analyses was very vague, meaning that there is no accountability 
or way to measure whether or not the 
final rule will achieve its intended 
result of preventing the spread of 
quarantinable communicable diseases 
via travel, which the commenter stated 
was already an extremely low risk. 
HHS/CDC concurs that there is 
uncertainty in the regulatory impact 
analysis. However, HHS/CDC has tried 
to indicate that one of the reasons for 
this uncertainty is that this final rule is 
primarily implementing current practice. Thus, where possible, HHS/CDC tried to provide data on the current 
burden of the provisions that are being 
updated in this final rule. HHS/CDC 
does not expect any major changes in practice as a result of this final rule. One commenter suggests that the cost/ benefit analyses was confusing because quarantinable and non-quarantinable 
diseases were not clearly identified. 
HHS/CDC appreciates this feedback and 
has updated the analyses to more clearly 
differentiate quarantinable and non- 
quarantinable diseases. One commenter suggested that HHS/ CDC took an unnecessarily extreme position in analyzing an alternative of 
removing all enforcement of current 
regulations. HHS/CDC used this as an 
alternative because this final rule is a 
codification of current practice and does 
not impose new regulatory burdens. q. Paperwork Reduction Act HHS/CDC published notices related to modifications and a new information collection in the Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking. Those information 
collections are as follows: (1) Foreign Quarantine Regulations (42 CFR part 71) (OMB Control No. 
0920Œ0134)ŠNonmaterial/non- 
substantive changeŠNational Center for 
Emerging, and Zoonotic Infectious 
Diseases (NCEZID), Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC). (2) Restrictions on Interstate Travel of Persons (42 CFR part 70) (OMB Control 
No. 0920Œ0488)ŠNonmaterial/non- 
substantive changeŠNational Center for 
Emerging, and Zoonotic Infectious 
Diseases (NCEZID), Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC). (3) Airline and Vessel and Traveler Information Collection (42 CFR part 
71)ŠNew Information Collection 
RequestŠNational Center for Emerging, 
and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases 
(NCEZID), Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention (CDC). One commenter stated that there are no estimates of additional information 
collection requirements resulting in a 
clear violation of the Paperwork 
Reduction Act. The commenter further 
stated that requesting information when 
HHS/CDC has no idea of the impact is 
not a well thought out or planned 
rulemaking. This commenter further 
questioned the value of providing 
comment when the agency purportedly 
has no idea what additional burden it is 
imposing on the public. HHS/CDC 
disagrees with these assessments. The focus of the final rule is to codify current practices and to update 
currently approved information 
collections to better align with 
operational procedures and other VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00035Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6924 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
industry guidance related to illness reporting on aircraft and vessels. Those 
information collections are currently 
approved under OMB control numbers 
0920Œ0134 (Foreign Quarantine 
Regulations), 0920Œ0488 (Restrictions 
on Interstate Travel of Persons), and the 
new information collection request 
Airline and Vessel and Traveler 
Information Collection (42 CFR part 71), 
which is currently pending OMB 
approval. The estimates of the burden 
provided in the Paperwork Reduction 
Act section of the NPRM were based on 
previous experience with particular 
information collections solicited or 
required from the public or industry in 
the past. In some cases, larger estimates 
of the burden to account for an 
increased number of reports to HHS/
CDC during disease outbreaks or public 
health emergencies were included. 
There are no information collections 
requirements that are wholly new, 
unreasonably burdensome, or outside 
the scope of historical HHS/CDC 
practices implemented to prevent the 
introduction or spread of communicable 
disease into or within the United States. Another commenter suggested that training in recognizing ill travelers is a 
burden that was not adequately 
considered. HHS/CDC disagrees because 
it does not mandate specific training for 
recognition of ill travelers. HHS/CDC is 
seeking to better align the ill person 
definition with the ICAO standard and 
thus is not the only organization that 
has this requirement. HHS/CDC 
provides specific guidance for how to 
recognize ill travelers and report to 
HHS/CDC on its Web site. HHS/CDC 
also believes this training is most likely 
already part of the training process for 
flight crews. An analysis of potential 
training costs has been added to the 
upper bound cost analysis in the 
Regulatory Impact Analysis. The upper 
bound annualized costs for additional 
training are estimated at $356,000. Finally, HHS/CDC is re-inserting ‚‚Has a fever that has persisted for more than 
48 hours™™ as a component in the 
definition of Ill person in §70.1 General 
definitions and ‚‚Has acute 
gastroenteritis, which means either 
diarrhea, defined as three or more 
episodes of loose stools in a 24-hour 
period or what is above normal for the 
individual, or vomiting accompanied by 
one or more of the following: One or 
more episodes of loose stools in a 24- 
hour period, abdominal cramps, 
headache, muscle aches, or fever 
(temperature of 100.4 °F [38 °C] or 
greater)™™ in §71.1 General definitions. 

This language was quoted verbatim in 
the preamble of the NPRM at 81 FR 54305 but was inadvertently omitted 
from the proposed regulatory text. B. Provisions Applicable Only to Part 70 Only (Domestic) a. General HHS/CDC received comments from the public asserting that State and local public health regulations already in 
place are sufficient to protect 
individuals without the need for Federal 
involvement. HHS/CDC agrees that State 
and local authorities play an integral 
role in protecting public health, but 
disagrees that there is no Federal role. 
HHS/CDC™s DGMQ maintains 
quarantine stations at major U.S. ports 
of entry that fulfill a primary purpose in 
preventing the introduction of 
communicable diseases into the United 
States, but also play an important role 
in containing the interstate spread of 
communicable disease. There are 
several broad areas of cooperation 
between quarantine field staff and State 
and local health agencies, such as 
contact tracing, which provide a 
framework for responding to 
communicable disease threats arising 
from interstate travel and at the local 
level. It is through these networks and 
established partnerships, in keeping 
with current practice, that the 
provisions of the final rule will be 
successfully implemented. HHS/CDC received a comment to the effect that quarantine specifically 
should be left to the States. HHS/CDC 
received another comment stating that 
Federal authority should not take 
precedence over State authority. In 
contrast, a public health association 
suggested that these regulations should 
indicate that Federal public health 
measures ‚‚supersede activities taken by 
States.™™ We respond that while HHS/
CDC works closely with State and local 
public health authorities, the Federal 
government has a traditional role in 
preventing introductions and spread of 
communicable diseases at ports of entry 
and interstate. HHS/CDC also disagrees 
with the suggestion that it should not 
intervene in the event of inadequate 
local control or lacks authority to 
protect the public™s health within the 
authority granted to it by Congress. 
Under 42 U.S.C. 264(e), Federal public 
health regulations do not preempt State 
or local public health regulations, 
except in the event of a conflict with the 
exercise of Federal authority. Other than 
to restate this statutory provision, this 
rulemaking does not alter the 
relationship between the Federal 
government and State/local 
governments as set forth in 42 U.S.C. 
264. Under, 42 CFR 70.2, HHS/CDC make take action to prevent the interstate spread of communicable 
diseases in the event that the CDC 
Director determines that inadequate 
local control exists. This longstanding 
provision on preemption in the event of 
a conflict with Federal authority is left 
unchanged by this rulemaking. One public health organization requested clarification of the process to 
transfer an individual from Federal to 
State custody and further stipulated that 
the State authority should require an 
independent State assessment of risk 
under State law. In response, HHS/CDC 
notes that the issuance of Federal public 
health orders is coordinated with State 
and, when appropriate, local public 
health authorities. Transfer of an 
individual from Federal to State custody 
would be similarly coordinated such 
that the State would need to agree to 
assume custody and the State™s order 
would need to be in place prior to HHS/ CDC™s rescinding the Federal order. When custody of an individual is 
transferred to a State authority, the State 
may choose, but would not be under a 
Federal mandate, to conduct an 
independent assessment of risk 
pursuant to its own policies and 
procedures. Furthermore, once the 
transfer of custody has occurred, the 
State™s laws and standards for due 
process would apply. Another public health authority asked for clarification of how jurisdictional 
issues regarding transfers of authority 
affecting more than one State would be 
handled for individuals under Federal 
quarantine. HHS/CDC responds that if 
more than one State is affected by the 
transfer of authority, HHS/CDC will 
work with all relevant States to 
determine the most appropriate State or 
local jurisdiction to accept custody of 
the individual. If it is necessary to 
transport the individual to another 
State, for example to the individual™s 
State of residence, HHS/CDC will work 
with the affected States to facilitate such a transfer under Federal orders. One public health organization requested clarification of the procedures 
HHS/CDC would use to rescind a public 
health order. HHS/CDC responds that it 
would issue the detained individual a 
written order rescinding the isolation, 
quarantine, or conditional release. This 
would be based on either one of two 
criteria: The individual is determined to 
no longer pose a public health threat or 
custody of the individual has been 
transferred to a State or local public 
health authority. HHS/CDC received a comment from a public health department stating that 
the regulations should include language 
that HHS/CDC will coordinate with VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00036Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6925 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
State and local public health authorities and law enforcement regarding any 
intended surveillance and enforcement 
activities. HHS/CDC strongly believes 
that coordination with State and local 
public health authorities, as well as 
relevant law enforcement entities, is 
essential to the public health response 
to individual cases as well as outbreaks 
of communicable disease. On the few 
occasions that HHS/CDC has issued 
Federal isolation orders for travelers 
with infectious tuberculosis, HHS/CDC 
has worked closely with State and local 
health departments to coordinate 
transportation, medical evaluation, and 
treatment of the ill traveler, including 
law enforcement when needed. During 
the 2014Œ2016 Ebola epidemic, HHS/
CDC issued guidance and alerted health 
care and EMS workers to consider a 
diagnosis of Ebola if patients had 
compatible symptoms and had visited 
an affected country within the previous 
three weeks. HHS/CDC and State and 
local health departments worked closely 
to assess any potentially exposed 
individuals with symptoms compatible 
with Ebola to determine whether 
medical evaluation was needed and, if 
so, to ensure safe transportation to a 
medical facility designated by the health 
department. In light of HHS/CDC™s 
history of close coordination with State 
and local public health authorities, 
including cooperating law enforcement 
entities when needed, HHS/CDC has 
determined that specific regulatory 
language is unnecessary. b. Requirements Relating to Travelers Under a Federal Order of Isolation, 
Quarantine, or Conditional Release Some commenters questioned HHS/CDC™s authority, as well as the need, to 
restrict the movement of individuals 
who are not ill but have been exposed. 
HHS/CDC thanks these commenters for 
their review and input. Some 
quarantinable communicable diseases, 
such as novel pandemic influenza 
strains, may be contagious before the 
infected person becomes symptomatic. 
Therefore, in these situations, it may be 
necessary to restrict the movement of 
asymptomatic exposed people to make 
sure they do not expose others 
inadvertently while they are not aware 
that they are contagious. It may also be 
necessary to restrict movement of an 
exposed person if public health 
authorities are unable to ensure 
appropriate monitoring of the person, 
for example, if an individual is known to have a history of noncompliance with 
public health recommendations. 
Exposed people whose movement is 
restricted through quarantine or other 
means may be offered vaccination, if a vaccine is available, but only with informed consent. One commenter noted that the regulation allows HHS/CDC to issue 
interstate travel permits to an infected 
individual conditioned upon the 
individual taking ‚‚precautionary 
measures™™ as prescribed by HHS/CDC. 
This commenter requested that HHS/
CDC clarify what precautionary 
measures may be prescribed and stated 
that such conditions should not be 
based on factors unrelated to the 
individual™s health condition, e.g., 
socio-economic, ethnic status. While 
HHS/CDC agrees that the issuance of a 
travel permit should not be based on 
such factors as race, gender, ethnicity, 
or socio-economic status, we note that 
the issuance of a travel permit may be 
conditioned on such factors as the 
individual™s ability and willingness to 
comply with the terms of the permit. 
Furthermore, while the exact 
precautionary measures prescribed may 
vary based on the infectious agent, such 
measures, for instance, may include: 
Agreeing to minimize time in congregate 
settings while traveling; avoiding eating 
in restaurants or other enclosed public 
places; traveling with no other people in 
the vehicle or, if other people are 
needed to safely operate the vehicle, 
agreeing to wear a mask and ensure 
good ventilation; and reporting to the 
local health department upon arrival or 
on route as needed. This commenter also requested clarification of the legal impact of a 
person who is denied a permit or has 
had a permit revoked. We note that per 
the terms of the regulation persons 
denied a travel permit or who have had 
a travel permit revoked may submit a 
written appeal. The right to a written 
appeal, as well as the means by which 
an appeal may be requested, will be 
addressed in the written order denying 
the request for a travel permit or 
revoking an existing permit. The appeal 
will be decided by an HHS/CDC official 
who is senior to the employee who 
denied or revoked the permit. HHS/CDC 
declines to speculate as to what else this 
commenter may be referring to by the 
term ‚‚legal impact,™™ but notes that the 
regulation does not impair the ability of 
persons to seek judicial review of final 
agency actions through the Administrative Procedure Act. This commenter also requested clarification of how long an individual 
may be restricted in his or her travel 
under a Federal travel permit. We note 
first that the restriction only applies to 
those under a Federal public health 
order or under a State or local order if 
the State or local health department of 
jurisdiction requests Federal assistance or there is inadequate local control. In further response, HHS/CDC notes that 
the restriction would remain in place so 
long as the individual is infected or 
capable of infecting others. This 
commenter further requested 
clarification of the impact of a 
disagreement between HHS/CDC and 
State or local public health authorities. 
We note that by the terms of 42 U.S.C. 
264(e), Federal public health regulations 
do not preempt State or local public 
health regulations except in the event of 
a conflict with the exercise of Federal 
authority. Moreover, per the terms of 42 
CFR 70.2, HHS/CDC may take action to 
prevent the interstate spread of 
communicable diseases in the event that 
the CDC Director determines that 
inadequate local control exists. HHS/CDC received a comment from a flight attendant union requesting 
clarification as to whether an employee 
could be held criminally liable for 
knowingly transporting someone in 
violation of the terms of a travel permit 
as specified under section 70.5. In 
response, HHS/CDC clarifies that the 
term ‚‚operator™™ is defined under 70.1 
consistent with 14 CFR 1.1 and with 
respect to an aircraft means, ‚‚any 
person who uses, causes to use or 
authorizes to use an aircraft, with or 
without the right of legal control (as 
owner, lessee, or otherwise).™™ We 
further note that criminal liability, if 
any, will be determined by a court of 
law and not administratively by HHS/
CDC. Accordingly, we decline to 
speculate as to whether employees who 
knowingly violate the terms of a travel 
permit may be held criminally liable. One public health organization asked for clarification of how local health 
departments would be engaged in 
conducting communicable disease 
screening activities or enforcing Federal 
public health travel restrictions for 
individuals traveling interstate, given 
that HHS/CDC staff are not present at 
many points of interstate travel. HHS/CDC acknowledges this limitation in 
their presence at some ports of entry 
and in regard to interstate travel and 
intends to address this through future 
guidance and discussion with 
stakeholders. In regard to interstate air travel, HHS/ CDC clarifies that the Federal public health Do Not Board tool will deny 
boarding of persons known to pose a 
public health risk to other air travelers. 
This tool is applicable to persons 
boarding a commercial aircraft with an 
origin or destination in the United 
States, including interstate travel. See 
80 FR 16400 (Mar. 27, 2015). For other modes of travel, HHS/CDC does not have a systematic mechanism VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00037Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6926 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
of denying boarding and these situations may need to be addressed on a case-by- 
case basis, either through direct 
communication with a conveyance 
operator or through application of other 
movement restrictions such as the 
issuance of State or Federal public 
health orders. Such situations will 
likely require the participation of State 
or local public health authorities; 
however, as noted by the commenting 
organization, the Federal and State/local 
costs and resources required during 
such operations are not known. The 
specific roles of State or local health 
departments will be addressed through 
future guidance or stakeholder 
discussion. HHS/CDC received a comment contending that the extension of travel 
permits to intrastate travel is in 
violation of the Commerce Clause. HHS/ CDC disagrees. We note that HHS/CDC will only require intrastate travel 
permits when a State or local health 
authority of jurisdiction requests federal 
assistance or in the event that State and 
local actions are inadequate to prevent 
interstate communicable disease spread. 
Under 42 U.S.C. 264, Congress acting 
pursuant to its Commerce Clause 
jurisdiction, has authorized HHS/CDC 
to take measures to prevent the foreign 
introduction and interstate spread of 
communicable diseases. It is well 
established that the Federal government 
may act to protect interstate commerce, 
even though the threat may come 
entirely from intrastate activities. See 
United States v. Lopez, 514 U.S. 549, 558Œ559 (1995). One commenter requested that HHS/ CDC replace the word ‚‚traveler™™ with ‚‚passenger™™ with respect to mandatory 
public health assessments, as a traveler 
could be taken to mean ‚‚anybody in a 
private vehicle lined up at a toll booth.™™ 
In response, HHS/CDC states that the 
use of the word ‚‚traveler™™ with respect 
to conveyances is intended to include 
both passengers and crew. Furthermore, 
HHS/CDC states that its authority 
extends to all individuals engaging in 
interstate travel including those 
traveling by private vehicle, particularly 
if they are in the ‚‚qualifying stage™™ of 
a quarantinable communicable disease. HHS/CDC received a comment from a partnership of public health legal 
scholars and organizations expressing concern that requiring application for a 
travel permit may be unduly 
burdensome because individuals who 
are served with a conditional release 
order at an airport would then need to 
apply for a separate travel permit to 
travel to their home State of residence. 
HHS/CDC disagrees because under such 
circumstances the conditional release order itself would include authorization 
for these individuals to continue travel 
to their home State of residence 
provided that they subsequently report 
to public health authorities as needed. 
For example, during the response to 
Ebola, CDC worked with state public 
health authorities to allow certain 
individuals who met certain risk 
thresholds to travel in private vehicles 
to their place of residence while 
maintaining a focus on protecting public 
health. This was done on a case by case 
basis, depending on distance of travel 
and risk of exposure, and distance from 
a health care facility with adequate 
capacity to treat and contain Ebola. CDC 
would make similar assessments in the 
event that conditional release orders are 
needed for other quarantinable 
communicable diseases. We note that 
the conditional release order itself 
would provide permission to travel and 
have added clarifying language to the 
text. HHS/CDC clarifies, however, that after arriving in their home State, 
should the individuals wish to engage 
in further travel, a travel permit may be 
needed at that time. In response to 
comments from this partnership 
organization, HHS/CDC also clarifies 
that the travel permit, as provided for in 
the regulations, will only be required 
under circumstances where the 
individual is already under a Federal, 
State or local order of quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release. 
Because the travel permit requirement is 
only applicable to individuals who are 
already under a Federal, State, or local 
public health order, HHS/CDC believes 
that this provision does not 
impermissibly restrict an individual™s 
right to travel. In response to comments regarding the time with which CDC may consider 
a travel permit request, the CDC Director 
shall respond to a request for a travel 
permit within 5 business days Likewise, 
one public health association suggested 
that, in the event a travel permit is 
denied, these regulations should state 
the timeframe that HHS/CDC will issue 
a response to the appeal; another 
proposed the time period for CDC™s 
response to be 72 hours. In response to 
these comments, HHS/CDC has added a 
requirement in the regulation that in the 
event that a request for a travel permit 
is denied, it must decide an appeal from 
that denial within three (3) business 
days. HHS/CDC believes that this 
timeframe is appropriate because this 
provision only applies to individuals 
who already have had their travel 
restricted through the issuance of a 
public health order and deciding an appeal may involve coordination with affected state or local jurisdictions. After consideration of comments received, HHS/CDC has modified 
paragraphs (a), (b)(1), (b)(2), and (c) of 
the provision concerning Requirements 
Relating to Travelers Under a Federal 
Order of Isolation, Quarantine, or 
Conditional Release (§70.5) to remove 

‚‚agreements,™™ referring to agreements 
entered into by the CDC. We have also 
modified paragraph (a)(5) to require that 
HHS/CDC must issue a written response 
to an appeal within three (3) business 
days. Other provisions of this section 
are finalized as proposed. c. Report of Death or Illness Onboard Aircraft Operated by an Airline Several commenters expressed concern that the new regulations 
remove the requirement for a local 
health authority to be notified when a 
passengers falls ill or dies on board a 
flight. The commenters insisted that this 
could interfere with effective local 
response to important communicable 
disease threats. They propose that local 
authorities should be notified in a 
timely manner, such as within one hour 
of initial reporting, and that HHS/CDC 
should consult with local health 
authorities on the necessary steps to 
contain the spread of communicable 
diseases. In contrast, one airline 
supported the direct reporting to HHS/ CDC. HHS/CDC carefully considered these comments and responds that it will 
continue its long standing partnership 
with local authorities. The rationale 
behind asking airlines to submit reports of deaths or reportable illnesses directly 
to HHS/CDC as opposed to local 
authorities is to simplify and streamline 
the reporting process for these airlines. 
Under the final rule, airlines will not be 
required to know the current points of 
contact for multiple local jurisdictions, 
but rather may report to HHS/CDC as a 
single point of contact. HHS/CDC will 
continue to share public health 
information with State and local health 
departments through approved 
electronic disease reporting networks 
such as the Epidemic Information 
Exchange (Epi-X), HHS/CDC™s secure, 
Web-based system. HHS/CDC may also 
notify State or local authorities via 
phone calls. Some commenters questioned whether HHS/CDC has adequate 
resources to be the first responder at the 
local level. HHS/CDC responds that it 
regularly coordinates with Federal, State 
and local agencies and other partners in 
the airport environment. HHS/CDC 
intends to continue working closely 
with Federal, State, and local partners, VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00038Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6927 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
including first responders such as EMS and State and local health agencies, 
when assistance is needed. One commenter suggested that the reporting of ill travelers ‚‚would be an 
invasion of our liberty and privacy.™™ 
HHS/CDC disagrees. The report of 
illness or death on board a carrier is a 
longstanding regulatory provision and 
practice. This final rule only changes to 
whom the report is made (directly to 
HHS/CDC), rather than to the local 
health department of destination. We 
further note that personally identifiable 
information collected and maintained 
under the Privacy Act will be handled 
in accordance with that Act and CDC™s 
system of records notice published at 72 
FR 70867. Another commenter worried that ‚‚having flight reservations require 
health reports will significantly impede 
air travel.™™ It is not HHS/CDC practice, 
nor a requirement under this regulation, 
for individuals to submit health reports 
prior to or after making a flight or vessel 
reservation. The only instance when 
health documents may be required prior 
to travel, is if a person is known to be 
infectious with a communicable disease 
that could spread during travel and has 
been placed on the Federal Public 
Health Do Not Board described in 80 FR 
16400 (Mar. 27, 2015). Because this 
practice is not new, HHS/CDC believes 
it will not impede air travel. A flight attendant association suggested that HHS/CDC should adopt 
training and awareness requirements for 
airline employers to provide to flight 
attendants concerning ‚‚what entails a 
qualifying stage.™™ Industry also 
expressed concern that flight crews may 
be held responsible and penalized for 
missed illness identification. HHS/CDC 
understands that the statutory definition 
of ‚‚qualifying stage™™ may be confusing 
to lay persons and does not expect air 
or vessel crewmembers to be trained in 
the nuances of such language. Instead, 
we have crafted a definition of ill person 
to focus, in plain language, on the signs and symptoms of communicable 
diseases of public health concern and 
quarantinable communicable diseases, 
while taking into account the medical 
resources available to aircrew. HHS/
CDC intends to enforce this provision 
consistent with how reports of deaths 
and illnesses are currently handled in 
regard to foreign arrivals. We note that 
flight crews have not been penalized in 
the past for missed reports of illness. HHS/CDC received comments from industry that the report of death or 
illness should not be limited only to the 
pilot in command, given the many 
duties already under his/her 
responsibility. HHS/CDC disagrees. We clarify first that this domestic provision was proposed to mirror the current 
foreign provision under 42 CFR 
71.21(b)Šwhich HHS/CDC did not 
propose to changeŠand which states 
‚‚the commander of an aircraft destined 
for a U.S. airport shall report 
immediately ... any death or ill person 

among passengers or crew.™™ While we 
acknowledge the many duties of the 
pilot in command, because this 
individual is directly responsible and 
has final authority over the operation of 
the aircraft, in keeping with the practice 
already established through regulation 
under 42 CFR 71.21(b), we believe that 
the responsibility for reporting ill 
persons onboard should ultimately rest 
with the pilot in command as stated in 
the regulation. Thus, the text of the 
regulation has not changed from the 
proposal. One industry group commented that the role of flight attendants in 
identifying sick travelers on board 
should be addressed through guidance 
developed in conjunction with HHS/
CDC and industry. HHS/CDC responds 
that it routinely issues guidance for 
flight crews, including standard 
guidance for the recognition and 
reporting of ill travelers and disease- or 
situation-specific guidance during 
outbreaks. Such guidance is published 
on HHS/CDC™s Web site and 
disseminated through established list 
serves, industry associations, and any 
other available means. HHS/CDC will 
coordinate with industry partners to 
determine whether additional guidance 
may be needed and, if necessary, work 
with these partners to develop such 
guidance. One industry organization commented that the proposed rule 
failed to recognize that airlines employ 
intermediary professional medical 
personnel. HHS/CDC responds that it 
recognizes the role of intermediary 
professional medical personnel in 
assisting flight crews in managing an ill traveler onboard and references such 
personnel in industry guidance issued 
at http://www.cdc.gov/quarantine/air/index.html. It is not HHS/CDC™s intent for the public health assessment conducted by 
HHS/CDC public health officers to 
replace this role in medical 
management. However, HHS/CDC 
restates that the reporting of ill travelers 
to HHS/CDC is the ultimate 
responsibility of the pilot in command 
as noted above. One association requested that the report of deaths on board a carrier be 
modified and limited to those deaths 
which resulted from a possible 
communicable disease. HHS/CDC disagrees. In keeping with current practice, HHS/CDC will continue to 
require and receive the reports of all 
deaths that occur on board a carrier, 
regardless of the suspected cause, to 
allow a public health official to conduct 
an assessment. One public health organization raised concerns about replacing reporting to 
local health authorities with reporting to 
HHS/CDC. In response, HHS/CDC notes 
that extensive input was sought in 2012 
from the Association of State and 
Territorial Health officers (ASTHO) and 
National Association of County and City 
Health Officials (NACCHO). 
Representatives from those 
organizations recommended that 
requirements and protocols should be 
the same for international and interstate 
flights and procedures should be 
outlined describing how this would 
occur. These representatives 
recommended that airlines should 
report ill persons on domestic flights to 
HHS/CDC and that HHS/CDC should 
subsequently notify State or local health 
departments. Subsequently, HHS/CDC 
posted guidance to this effect on its Web 
site and has continued response 
planning and development of standard 
operating procedures to implement 
these recommendations. Thus, this 
rulemaking codifies the current practice 
and is consistent with recommendations 
provided by ASTHO and NACCHO. One commenter stated that it appears HHS/CDC is ‚‚attempting to move 
towards mandatory reporting by carriers 
and border personnel, requiring 
reporting of persons with signs of illness 
as they cross borders, as opposed to 
having to do large-scale individual 
contact interviews and investigations 
after an outbreak occurs.™™ In response, 
HHS/CDC states that reporting by 
carriers is already required under the 
existing regulations and that this 
regulation only codifies current practice 
and guidance. In addition, DHS notifies 
HHS/CDC of ill travelers detected by 
border personnel. HHS/CDC and DHS 
agreed to this notification process in a 
memorandum of understanding and 
therefore changes to this regulation are 
unnecessary. HHS/CDC additionally 
coordinates notification and 
investigation of contacts during 
exposure or outbreak situations when necessary based on a public health risk 
assessment. Such investigations are 
standard public health practice and not 
mutually exclusive of reporting by 
carriers or notifications by border 
personnel. After consideration of these comments, the title of the Radio Report 
of Death or Illness (71.21) in the 
provision has been finalized as VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00039Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6928 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
proposed to remove the word ‚‚Radio,™™ and now reads Report of Death or 
Illness. C. Provisions Applicable to Part 71 Only (Foreign) One commenter questioned the seriousness of communicable disease 
spread on aircraft and vessels. Another 
commenter noted an ‚‚extreme 
unlikeliness of contracting any 
communicable disease while traveling™™ 
and that, therefore, HHS/CDC failed to 
prove a ‚‚compelling need™™ for the 
proposed regulations. HHS/CDC 
appreciates the opportunity to respond 
to these comments. The spread of 
communicable diseases on aircraft and 
vessels is well documented. There are 
numerous reports in the medical and 
public health literature of spread of 
measles, tuberculosis, SARS- 
coronavirus, and influenza virus on 
aircraft. Outbreaks of varicella 
(chickenpox), influenza, and 
gastrointestinal viruses such as 
norovirus are common on cruise ships, 
and spread of other diseases such as 
measles, rubella (German measles), 
tuberculosis, and other gastrointestinal 
diseases has also been reported. Aircraft 
and vessels have people together in 
confined spaces for prolonged periods 
of time. Therefore, conducting contact 
investigations for certain communicable 
diseases identified on aircraft or vessels 
is standard public health practice, both 
in the United States and internationally, 
similar to public health practice in 
community settings. HHS/CDC received comments from industry regarding ongoing efforts with 
DHS/CBP to improve passenger data 
collection, as announced in the NPRM. 
Several commenters stated that HHS/
CDC should delay this final rule until 
DHS/CBP has published a regulation to 
ensure that a coordinated system is put 
in place. HHS/CDC thanks these commenters for their input but disagrees 
that this final rule should be delayed. 
This comprehensive regulation seeks to 
protect public health, by implementing, 
among other things, current passenger 
and crew data collection practices. One commenter objected to the collection of health information prior to 
using public transportation. Another 
commenter opposed the idea of carriers 
being ‚‚forced to collect and report 17 
data elements on American travelers.™™ A 
public health association also insisted 
that data elements should only be 
collected from people if there is a 
reasonable belief that the person is 
infected. This final rule does not require 
carriers to collect or transmit any data 
elements that are not currently collected 
and transmitted to CBP via APIS and PNR as a result of normal operating procedures. We also take this time to 
emphasize two important points. First, 
passengers are not required by HHS/
CDC to submit specific data elements 
provided by passengers. Second, HHS/ CDC will only seek this information from CBP or the airline in the event of 
a confirmed or suspected communicable 
disease on board a carrier which 
requires contacting fellow passengers to 
inform them of possible exposure. While HHS/CDC received support for the data collection from two public 
health associations, a commenter 
misread the proposals to mean that 
aircraft operators would be required to 
develop new capacity and processes to 
capture and store a comprehensive set 
of sensitive data, archive this data, and 
then provide it to HHS/CDC. HHS/CDC 
takes this opportunity to restate and 
clarify that these final regulations do not 
impose any new burdens upon the 
airline industry but rather, codify the 
current practice of receiving a passenger 
manifest order (as needed) and 
providing HHS/CDC with any data in an 
airline™s possession. This rule places no 
requirement on the airline to solicit or 
store additional data than current 
practices allow. Therefore, HHS/CDC 
does not expect this formalization of 
current practice to have an impact on 
operations, including ‚‚check-in 
process.™™ If an airline does not have in 
its possession the five additional data 
elements, it is not required to collect or 
submit them to CDC. One airline industry group commented that the collection of 
information from screened individuals 
for the purpose of contact tracing should 
apply only to passengers because 
crewmember information would be 
provided by the employer. HHS/CDC 
responds that this may be the case 
operationally; however, HHS/CDC 
reserves the right to collect information 
directly from crew members if 
necessary. HHS/CDC received a comment expressing concern that individuals may provide false contact information, e.g. 
emails and telephone numbers, to 
airlines, and thus that HHS/CDC would 
lack the means of contacting 
individuals. In response, HHS/CDC 
notes that airlines are not required to 
verify the accuracy of information 
collected and HHS/CDC takes no 
position on what consequences the 
airline may impose if a traveler refuses 
to provide information or provides 
inaccurate information. One public health organization commented on the scope of HHS/CDC™s 
protocols for when contact 
investigations are conducted and how exposed contacts are defined following exposures to measles or varicella on 
aircraft or vessels. HHS/CDC appreciates 
the comment but seeks to clarify that 
these protocols were mentioned in the 
NPRM solely for the purposes of 
providing context for the economic 
analysis and that the content of the 
protocols themselves is beyond the 
scope of this rulemaking. One public health organization commented on the fact that buses and 
trains typically do not maintain or have 
access to passenger manifests that 
would allow for the collection of 
information by HHS/CDC for the 
purpose of contact tracing. HHS/CDC 
agrees with this comment and notes that 
these regulations do not require 
operators of buses or trains to maintain 
passenger manifests for purposes of 
contact tracing. The organization also 
commented on the utility of the 
requirement that operators of buses or 
trains not knowingly transport 
individuals subject to a Federal public 
health order. In response, HHS/CDC 
notes that it is useful to prohibit 
conveyance operators from knowingly 
transporting someone under a Federal 
public health order without a travel 
permit or in violation of the terms of a 
permit because this may limit 
communicable disease spread. This 
prohibition, however, would only apply 
in circumstances where the operator 
would know or have reason to know 
that a travel permit is required, for 
instance, if the conveyance operator has 
been directly informed by the HHS/CDC 
or another cooperating Federal, State, or 
local agency. A non-profit organization also commented that requiring airlines to 
disclose passenger information, upon 
request, but without a warrant, for 
purposes of notifying passengers of their 
potential exposure to a communicable 
disease violates the Fourth Amendment 
to the U.S. Constitution. This 
organization also contends that HHS/
CDC lacks the legal authority to require 
that travelers provide certain contact 
information, such as information 
concerning their intended destination, 
health status, and travel history as part 
of a public health investigation. 
Specifically, this group contends that 
‚‚examination™™ as used in 42 U.S.C. 
264(d)(1) should be understood as 
referring only to an ‚‚inspection™™ not an 
‚‚interrogation.™™ This group further 
contends that because HHS/CDC lacks 
the legal authority to collect information 
under 42 U.S.C. 264 it also lacks the 
authority to collect information under 
the Privacy Act of 1974. Lastly, this group contends that any compulsory 
questioning of travelers about ‚‚acts of VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00040Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6929 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
assembly or association™™ violates the First Amendment to the U.S. 
Constitution. HHS/CDC disagrees with these comments. HHS/CDC notes that the 
requirement of a judicial warrant is not 
applicable to requiring passenger and 
crew information from air carriers. 
Rather, this activity is permitted 
without a warrant under the special- 
needs doctrine articulated by the 
Supreme Court in Skinner v. Railway Labor Executives™ Ass™n, 489 U.S. 602 
(1989) because of the ‚‚special need™™ in 
preventing communicable disease 
spread. Furthermore, requiring 
passenger information from airlines and 
questioning travelers is authorized 
under 42 U.S.C. 264(a), which allows for 
the promulgation of regulations 
necessary for preventing the spread of 
communicable diseases from foreign 
countries into the United States and 
interstate. In carrying out and enforcing 
these regulations, 42 U.S.C. 264(a), 
authorizes ‚‚inspection™™ and ‚‚other 
measures™™ as may be necessary which 
allows for inspection of airline records 
and questioning of travelers regarding 
their health status and travel history. 
While 42 U.S.C. 264(d)(1) is not directly 
implicated in questioning of travelers 
because such questioning may occur 
without a specific reason to believe that 
the individual traveler may be infected 
with a quarantinable communicable 
disease, we note that the commenter™s 
suggestion that an ‚‚examination™™ 
excludes ‚‚interrogation™™ is not 
supported by common understanding or 
language usage. We note that Merriam 
Webster defines ‚‚examination™™ among 
other things as ‚‚a formal interrogation.™™ 
Thus, this commenter™s suggestion that 
because HHS/CDC purportedly lacks the 
legal authority to collect traveler 
information under 42 U.S.C. 264 it also 
lacks authority to collect information 
under the Privacy Act is without merit. HHS/CDC also rejects the suggestion that questioning of travelers violates 
their rights to free association under the 
First Amendment. The U.S. Supreme 
Court has recognized a ‚‚freedom of 
association™™ in only two distinct areas: 
(1) Choices to enter into and maintain 
certain personal human relationships 
(as an element of personal liberty); and 
(2) a right to associate for the purpose 
of engaging in other activities protected 
by the First Amendment, i.e., speech, assembly, petition for redress of 
grievances, exercise of religious 
freedom. City of Dallas v. Stanglin, 490 U.S. 19, 23Œ24 (1989). The purpose of 
this proposed requirement is to protect 
the vital health interests of passengers and crew so that individuals who have 
been exposed to a communicable disease during travel may be contacted, informed, and provided with 
appropriate public health follow-up. 
HHS/CDC measures to prevent the 
introduction, transmission, or spread of 
communicable diseases do not implicate 
any of these constitutionally-protected 
areas. HHS/CDC further notes that its purpose in collecting passenger 
information is to notify passengers who 
have been potentially exposed to 
communicable diseases of public health 
concern. For some of these diseases, 
there are preventive medications or 
vaccines that the individual may be 
made aware of and wish to obtain to 
keep from becoming sick. Therefore, 
HHS/CDC considers the collection of 
passenger locating information to be of 
benefit to these passengers and in 
keeping with standard public health 
practice to prevent further 
communicable disease transmission. After considering these comments, HHS/CDC has finalized these provisions 
(71.4 and 71.5) as proposed, with the 
exception that the title has been 
modified to remove references to 
‚‚collection™™ and ‚‚storage™™ of 
information to more accurately reflect 
the requirements under this section. 
References to the CDC have also been 
replaced with Director throughout these 
sections. a. Suspension of Entry of Animals, Articles, or Things From Designated 
Foreign Countries and Places Into the 
United States Regarding provision 71.63 Suspension of entry of animals, articles, or things from designated foreign countries and 
places into the United States, one public 
health association proposed that the 
restriction of animals should include an 
exception for ports of entry that could 
provide for physical inspection. In 
response, HHS/CDC clarifies that if the 
CDC Director determines an imported 
animal (or product) poses a significant 
public health threat, this provision 
requires the Director to designate the 
period of time and conditions under 
which entry into the United States shall 
be suspended, which may include 
limiting entries to certain ports where 
physical inspections are available. In 
keeping with current practice, HHS/
CDC will implement public health 
protection measures that strike the 
appropriate balance between protecting 
the public™s health and continued 
importation and trade. HHS/CDC received a comment that the term ‚‚thing™™ as used in 71.63 
authorizing the suspension of ‚‚animals, 
articles, or things,™™ based on the 
existence of communicable disease in a foreign country is unduly vague. In response, we explain that HHS/CDC 
may take public health measures in 
regard to animals, articles, or things, to 
prevent the introduction, transmission, 
and spread of communicable diseases 
into the United States and interstate. 
‚‚Article™™ generally refers to an article of 
commerce, such as a specific product 
that someone wishes to import into the 
United States or move between States 
that poses a public health risk. In 
contrast, a ‚‚thing™™ simply refers to a 
material object that poses a public 
health risk regardless of whether there 
is a specific intent to import or move 
between States. For instance, on July 10, 
2001, CDC issued an order under the 
authority of section 71.32(b) requiring 
that imports of ‚‚lucky bamboo™™ (a 
decorative plant) shipped in standing 
water be prohibited from entering the 
United States because the water (i.e., the method of packing the lucky bamboo) constituted a potential vector for 
mosquito-borne illnesses. See 66 FR 35984 (July 10, 2001). In contrast, 
shipments of ‚‚lucky bamboo™™ that were 
packed dry (not in standing water) were 
permitted entry into the United States. 
In this case, ‚‚lucky bamboo™™ (the 
decorative plant) would constitute the 
‚‚article™™ and the standing water would 
constitute the ‚‚thing.™™ HHS/CDC received a question regarding the fate of animals or articles 
denied entry under this regulation, 
stating that ‚‚articles might presumably 
be forfeited and pets will be executed,™™ 
and questioning whether this provision 
aligns with due process, particularly 
with respect to the right to appeal. In 
response, HHS/CDC states that the 
provision authorizing temporary 
suspension of entry of certain animals, 
articles and things based on the 
existence of a communicable disease in 
a foreign country and to protect the 
public™s health is intended to prevent 
the arrival of these items at a U.S. port 
of entry. Therefore, HHS/CDC will seek 
to ensure travelers are informed of the 
restriction and will also work with 
carriers to prevent these animals or 
items from being loaded onto aircraft or 
vessels traveling to the United States. If 
such animals or items do arrive at a U.S. 
port of entry, HHS/CDC will take 
measures as needed to protect the 
public™s health. Such measures will be 
determined on a case-by-case basis and 
may include, at the owner™s expense, 
confinement, re-exportation, or 
destruction. Re-exportation may be 
considered if there is no public health 
risk during travel. HHS/CDC would also 
consider euthanasia of animals if there VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00041Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6930 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
2Executive Order 12866 of September 30, 1993: Regulatory Planning and Review. Federal Register. Monday, October 4, 1993; 58(190). http://
www.archives.gov/federal-register/executive-orders/
pdf/12866.pdf. Accessed January 2016. 3Executive Order 13563 of January 18, 2011: Improving Regulation and Regulatory Review. 
Federal Register. Friday, January 21, 2011; 76(14). 
http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2011-01-21/pdf/
2011-1385.pdf. Accessed January 2016. 4U.S. Small Business Administration. Regulatory Flexibility Act. http://www.sba.gov/advocacy/823. Accessed January 2016. 5Summary of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act. 2 U.S.C. 1501 et seq. (1995). http://www2.epa.gov/laws-regulations/summary- 
unfunded-mandates-reform-act. Accessed January 
2016. are no other reasonable alternatives to protect the public™s health. In response to the concern expressed about an ‚‚appeal,™™ HHS/CDC notes that 
the Director™s suspension order would 
ordinarily constitute ‚‚final agency 
action™™ under the Administrative 
Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 704. However, 
HHS/CDC will consider the 
appropriateness of offering an 
administrative appeal as it develops the 
relevant suspension order. After considering these comments, HHS/CDC has finalized the Suspension of Entry of Animals, Articles, or Things 
From Designated Foreign Countries and 
Places Into the United States (71.63) 
provision as proposed. VI. Alternatives Considered Under Executive Order 13563 agencies are asked to consider all feasible alternatives to current practice 
and the rulemaking as drafted. One less 
restrictive alternative would be for 
HHS/CDC to stop enforcing its 
regulations and make compliance with 
current regulations voluntary. Under 
this scenario, HHS/CDC would not 
obtain contact data from airlines or 
provide such data to health departments 
in order to conduct contact 
investigations. HHS/CDC would not 
require illness and death reports on aircraft or vessels, but would still 
follow-up with airlines and vessel 
operators upon request. This alternative 
would put travelers at greater risk of 
becoming infected with communicable 
diseases, reduce the ability of public 
health departments to offer post- 
exposure prophylaxis or other measures 
to prevent communicable disease spread 
from travelers known to have been 
exposed, and generally increase the risk 
of communicable disease transmission 
in the United States. Another alternative, is to extend the scope of the regulations by closing U.S. 
borders and ports of entry to incoming 
traffic from countries experiencing 
widespread transmission of 
quarantinable communicable diseases to 
protect public health is also analyzed 
based on the 2014Œ16 Ebola outbreak in 
West Africa as well as recent 
importations of Middle East respiratory 
syndrome. HHS/CDC believes this 
approach is neither practicable nor is it 
desirable. In a separate appendix, alternatives are considered to increase or decrease 
HHS/CDC™s required payments for care 
and treatment for individuals under 
Federal orders as specified in 42 CFR 
70.13 and 42 CFR 71.30. Also in a 
separate appendix, alternatives are also 
considered in which HHS/CDC does not 
implement temporary animal import embargos (less restrictive) or does not 
allow importation of animals under 
temporary embargos for science, 
education, and exhibition when 
accompanied by a special permit. We believe the regulations described above and set forth below in text offer 
the best solutions for protecting U.S. 
public health while allowing for 
continued travel. HHS/CDC believes 
that this rulemaking complies with 
Executive Order 13563; all of these 
changes provide good alternatives to the 
current baseline. VII. Required Regulatory Analyses 
A. Executive Orders 12866 and 13563 HHS/CDC has examined the impacts of the final rule under Executive Order 12866, Regulatory Planning and Review 
(58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993)2and Executive Order 13563, Improving 
Regulation and Regulatory Review, (76 
FR 3821, January 21, 2011).3Both Executive Orders direct agencies to 
evaluate any rule prior to promulgation 
to determine the regulatory impact in 
terms of costs and benefits to United 
States populations and businesses. 
Further, together, the two Executive 
Orders set the following requirements: 
Quantify costs and benefits where the 
new regulation creates a change in 
current practice; define qualitative costs 
and benefits; choose approaches that 
maximize net benefits including 
potential economic, environmental, 
public health and safety, and other 
advantages; support regulations that 
protect public health and safety; and 
minimize the adverse impact of 
regulation. HHS/CDC has analyzed the 
final rule as required by these Executive 
Orders and has determined that it is 
consistent with the principles set forth 
in the Executive Orders and the 
Regulatory Flexibility Act,4as amended by the Small Business Regulatory 
Enforcement Fairness Act (SBREFA)5 and that, relative to the status quo, the 
final rule will not be economically 
significant because the sum of annualized costs and benefits are estimated to be much less than $100 
million in any given year. However, there is uncertainty about the appropriate analytic baseline, and 
relative to some possible baselines, the effects of the rule are non-negligible. For 
example, if in the absence this rule, 
some aspects of future HHS/CDC 
screening or risk assessment activities 
are found to be legally impermissible, 
then the status quo baseline would not 
represent a reasonable approximation of 
the state of the world without the rule. 
Relative to a non-status quo baseline, 
the rule would lead to activities (e.g., 
the 2014Œ16 Ebola risk assessment and 
management program) that have both 
substantial costs and substantial 
benefits. Analyses relative to this non- 
status quo baseline are presented in a 
separate appendix. This Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) section presents the anticipated 
costs and benefits that are quantified 
where possible are relative to the status 
quo baseline. Where quantification is 
not possible, a qualitative discussion is 
provided of the costs and/or benefits 
that HHS/CDC anticipates from issuing 
these regulations. Need for Rule The 2014Œ2016 Ebola response highlights the inadequacies and limitations of the current regulatory 
provisions on the traveler data 
collection process in which CDC must 
request traveler manifests from airlines 
and manually search for contact data in 
order to know who enters the United States, where they go, and how to contact them. Airlines have been slow to respond to HHS/CDC requests for traveler 
manifests: Æ30% arrive more than three days after a request, Æ15% arrive more than six days late. In addition, available locating information is usually incomplete: 
HHS/CDC receives only the name and 
seat number for 61% of travelers, and 
one or more additional pieces of 
information for 39% of travelers. This 
final rule clarifies HHS/CDC™s existing 
authority to request any available 
contact data from airlines and vessel 
operators, which may improve the 
timeliness and completeness of future 
requests from airlines or vessel 
operators for data not already submitted 
to the Department of Homeland 
Security. Some traveler contact data is available in the APIS/PNR dataset already 
submitted by airlines to CBP. In the 
experience of the HHS/CDC, queries 
from APIS/PNR rarely result in full sets VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00042Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6931 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
of contact information (i.e. the record includes all five additional data fields as outlined in the final rule). The data 
fields that are most commonly missing 
from the records are email addresses 
(missing 90 percent of the time), 
secondary phone number (missing 90 
percent of the time), and street 
addresses (missing or insufficient for 
public health contact tracing up to 50 
percent of the time). These data 
elements are vital to a contact tracing 
investigation. In looking at a random 
sample of 20% of the compiled 
international air travel manifests for 
2015, those including a compiled data 
set from NTC and the airlines, 100% 
were missing at least one of the 5 data 
fields. Email address and secondary 
phone number were among those most 
frequently missing. For context, there 
were approximately 760,000 scheduled 
flights that arrived into the United 
States in 2015. In 2015, HHS/CDC 
issued passenger manifest requests for 
64 international flights arriving into the 
United States. As noted in the RIA of 
the final rule, from 2010 to 2015, HHS/ CDC conducted an average of 77 contact investigations per year involving 
arriving international flights. Airlines are contacted for the majority of contact investigations using a 
manifest order document. At a minimum, HHS/CDC needs to confirm 
the ill traveler was on the flight and 
where the individual sat in relation to 
other travelers to determine risk of 
exposure. Further, in HHS/CDC™s 
experience, only airlines can: •Quickly and efficiently produce a partial manifest targeting affected rows •confirm identity of ‚‚babes in arms™™ and their co-travelers (Parent); this is 
important for measles cases; •quickly confirm whether an individual actually flew (in instances 
where individuals deplane and do not 
re-board during a layover); and •confirm a plane™s configuration if there is a question with the provided 
row numbers. Different aircraft have 
different seating arrangements 
depending on carrier and layout. It is 
important to know if a certain seat is 
separated by a bulkhead or is a window 
seat. In addition, HHS/CDC only requires a partial manifest, e.g. 5 rows for travelers with infectious tuberculosis, so that 
NTC and HHS/CDC staff can limit the 
investigation to only those passengers at 
risk and supplement/cross reference 
with APIS and PNR data. If a partial 
manifest is not available from the 
airlines, then each passenger record 
must be researched individually to find 
a seat number, and then the 
configuration of an entire plane must be populated to determine where the index case sat in relation to other at-risk 
passengers. For large flights from Asia, 
this can pose a tremendous burden to 
NTC and CDC staff while slowing the 
ability of CDC to provide important 
contact information to state and local 
health departments. Manually 
populating multiple 300+ person flights 
is not feasible in a timely manner. Finally, CDC wishes to reiterate its desire for the above-described 
operations to be published in regulation 
to provide the public, as well as 
industry, with understanding of the 
efforts made by CDC to protect public 
health. The other change to the economic baseline that may result from this final 
rule was the need to change the 
definition of an ‚‚ill person™™ to better 
match HHS/CDC guidance and the 
guidelines contained in Note 1 to 
paragraph 8.15 of Annex 9 to the 
Convention on International Civil 
Aviation. Where possible, the marginal 
costs and benefits of these changes 
relative to the status quo baseline are 
monetized. In addition, HHS/CDC believes that there is a need to better communicate to 
the public the actions that it has taken 
in accordance with its regulatory 
authority under 42 CFR 70.6 
Apprehension and detention of persons 
with specific diseases, 42 CFR 71.32 
Persons, carriers, and things, and 
§71.33ŠPersons: Isolation and 

surveillance. HHS/CDC believes it is necessary for the public to better 
understand actions that may be taken to 
prevent the importation of 
communicable diseases and to explain 
the due process available to individuals under Federal orders for isolation, 
quarantine, or conditional release. HHS/ CDC also believes it is important to explain when HHS/CDC may authorize 
payment for the care and treatment of 
individuals subject to medical 
examination, quarantine, isolation and 
conditional release. Finally, HHS/CDC believes it is important to explain its regulatory 
authority to suspend entry of animals, 
articles or things from designated 
foreign countries and places into the 
United States when importation 
increases the risk of the introduction 
and/or transmission of a communicable 
disease within the United States. The specific market failure addressed by these regulations is that the costs 
associated with the spread of 
communicable diseases impacts the 
entire U.S. population, not just the 
group of persons currently infected with 
communicable diseases or with business 
interests in providing interstate or international travel to persons or animals infected with communicable 
diseases. The economic impact analysis of this final rule is subdivided into four 
sections: 1. An analysis of 42 CFR 70.1, 42 CFR 71.1/71.4/71.5, for which the primary 
costs may be incurred by aircraft and 
vessel operators and the primary benefit 
is improved public health 
responsiveness to assess and provide 
post-exposure prophylaxis to travelers 
exposed to communicable diseases of 
public health concern. 2. An analysis of a number of provisions that aim to improve 
transparency of how HHS/CDC uses 
regulatory authorities to protect public 
health. These changes are not intended 
to provide HHS/CDC with new 
regulatory authorities, but rather to 
clarify the agency™s standard operating 
procedures and policies, and due 
process rights for individuals. HHS/CDC 
believes that improving the quality of its 
regulations by providing clearer 
explanations of its policies and 
procedures is an important public 
benefit. However, HHS/CDC is not able 
to attach a dollar value to this added 
benefit in a significant way. In a 
separate appendix, HHS/CDC analyzes 
the costs and benefits associated with 
the 2014Œ2016 Ebola enhanced risk 
assessment and management program 
are used to illustrate the costs and 
benefits of implementation of some of 
these authorities, and are especially 
relevant when analyzing the effects of 
the rule relative to a non-status quo 
baseline. 3. In a separate appendix, HHS/CDC provides an analysis of the revisions to 
42 CFR 70.13/71.30: Payment for care and treatment, which are not expected 
to lead to a change in HHS/CDC policy 
under which HHS/CDC may act as the 
payer of last resort for individuals 
subject to medical examination, 
quarantine, isolation, and conditional 
release under Federal orders. The 
primary benefit of codification is 
increased transparency around HHS/
CDC policies to assist in paying for 
treatment or transportation for 
individuals under Federal orders. The 
analysis for these provisions is an 
examination in potential transfer 
payments between HHS/CDC and 
healthcare facilities that provide 
treatment to individuals under Federal 
orders or to other payers. 4. In a separate appendix, HHS/CDC provides an analysis of 42 CFR 71.63: 
Suspension of entry of animals, articles, 
or things from designated foreign 
countries and places into the United 
States. In this final rule, HHS/CDC is VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00043Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6932 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
6Federal Register 62353 Vol. 68, No. 213 Tuesday, November 4, 2003. P. 62353Œ69. explaining its existing regulatory authority. HHS/CDC cannot predict how 
often such authority may be used in the 
future or for what purpose. HHS/CDC 
previously exercised this authority on 
June 11, 2003, when under 42 CFR 
71.32(b), HHS/CDC implemented an 
immediate embargo on the importation of all rodents from Africa (order 
Rodentia).6A simple economic impact analysis of this embargo is performed to 
demonstrate the costs and benefits of 
one example, but HHS/CDC does not 
anticipate an increase in frequency of 
such actions based on the provisions 
included in this final rule. The primary purpose of the analysis is to demonstrate potential costs and benefits 
using a realistic example. Table 1 provides a summary of whether quantitative or qualitative 
analyses were performed for each of the 
provisions in the final rule. TABLE1ŠSUMMARYOF
PROVISIONSINCLUDEDIN
THISFINALRULE Provision Qualitative impacts only Codification of existing authority §70.1/§71.1General Definitions.................................................................................................
.........................No
a................Yes (except 
definition of ‚‚ill person™™). §70.5Requirements relating to travelers under a federal order of isolation, quarantine, or conditional release Yes.............
....Yes. 
§70.6Apprehension and detention of persons with specific diseases; §71.32 Persons, carriers, and things 
(no change to title).Yes.................Yes. 
§70.10/§71.20Public health prevention measures to detect communicable disease........................................Yes
b..............Yes. 
§70.11Report of death or illness onboard aircraft operated by an airline.......................................................
..Yes.................Yes. 
§70.12/§71.36Medical examinations..............................................................................................
....................Yes.................Yes. 
§70.13/§71.30Payment for Care and Treatment....................................................................................
...........Yes
c...............Yes. 
§70.14/§71.37Requirements relating to the issuance of a Federal order for quarantine, isolation, or condi-
tional release.Yes.................Yes. 
§70.15/§71.38Mandatory reassessment of a federal order for quarantine, isolation, or conditional release...Yes.................
Yes. §70.16/§71.39Medical review of a federal order for quarantine, isolation, or conditional release....................Yes........
.........Yes. 
§70.17/§71.29Administrative records relating to federal quarantine, isolation, or conditional release.............Yes..........
.......Yes. 
§70.18/§71.2Penalties........................................................................................................................................Yes.................Yes. 
§71.4Requirements relating to collection, storage and transmission of airline passenger, crew and flight in-
formation for public health purposes.Noa................Yes. 
§71.5Requirements relating to collection, storage and transmission of vessel passenger, crew, and voyage 
information for public health purposes.Noa................Yes. 
§71.33Persons: Isolation and surveillance......................................................................................
...................Yes.................Yes. 
§71.63Suspension of entry of animals, articles, or things from designated foreign countries and places into 
the United States.Yesd..............Yes. 
aAnalyzed in RIA. bThe costs and benefits associated with the 2014Œ2016 Ebola enhanced risk assessment and management program are used to illustrate the 
costs and benefits in a separate appendix. cIn a separate appendix, an analysis of previous HHS/CDC payments for care and treatment is provided. However, the provisions in the Final 
Rule are not expected to lead to a change in HHS/CDC policy under which HHS/CDC may act as the payer of last resort for individuals subject 
to medical examination, quarantine, isolation, and conditional release under Federal orders. dIn a separate appendix, HHS/CDC provides an analysis of this provision based on past experience when HHS/CDC implemented an imme-diate embargo on the importation of all rodents from Africa. Executive Summary of the Costs and Benefits of 42 CFR 70.1, 42 CFR 71.1/ 71.4/71.5 Estimated Costs The quantified costs and benefits of the final rule are estimated for the 
following stakeholders: Air and 
maritime conveyance operators, State 
and local public health departments 
(PHDs), individuals exposed to 
communicable diseases during travel 
and United States Government (USG). 
The most likely estimates of primary 
costs are low ($32,622, range $10,959 to 
$430,839) because the final rule 
primarily codifies existing practice or 
improves alignment between regulatory 
text and the symptoms reporting 
guidelines provided by the International 
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). The cost estimates are based on an increase in: •The number of illness reports delivered by airlines and vessel 
operators to CDC, relay of air illness 
reports to CDC by the Federal Aviation 
Administration (FAA) when such 
reports are received by FAA air traffic 
service units, illness reports processed 
by HHS/CDC and time for travelers; •increased costs for airlines and vessel operators to comply with HHS/
CDC requests for traveler contact data; •increased costs for State and local public health departments to follow up 
with a larger number of travelers 
exposed to communicable diseases 
during travel; •The upper bound cost estimate also includes a substantial increase in 
training costs for the changes to illness 
reporting. Estimated Benefits The best estimate of quantified benefits of the final rule is also 
relatively small $110,045 (range $26,337 
to $297,393). This estimate is based on 
expected improvements in illness 
reporting and in the timeliness, 
completeness, and accuracy of contact 
data. These improvements should result 
in increased efficiencies for HHS/CDC 
and State and local public health 
departments in conducting contact 
investigations among travelers exposed 
to communicable diseases on aircraft 
and vessels and reduced illness costs 
associated with the reduced risk of 
measles and tuberculosis morbidity and 
mortality in exposed travelers. Other potential but non-quantified benefits of the final rule would be 
associated with future outbreaks of VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00044Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6933 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
7Rassy D, Smith RD. The economic impact of H1N1 on Mexico™s tourist and pork sectors. Health Econ. 2013;22(7):824Œ34. doi: 10.1002/hec.2862. 
PubMed PMID: 23744805. 8Keogh-Brown MR, Smith RD. The economic impact of SARS: How does the reality match the 
predictions? Health Policy. 2008;88(1):110Œ20. 9GastanŸaduy, P.A., S.B. Redd, A.P. Fiebelkorn, J.S. Rota, P.A. Rota, W.J. Bellini, J.F. Seward and 
G.S. Wallace (2014). ‚‚MeaslesŠUnited States, 
January 1ŒMay 23, 2014.™™ MMWR 63(22): 496Œ499. 10Nelson, K., Marienau, K.J., Schembri, C. and Redd, S. (2013). ‚‚Measles transmission during air 
travel, United States.™™ Travel Medicine and 
Infectious Disease (2013) 11, 81e89 11: 81Œ89. 11Nelson, K., Marienau, K.J., Schembri, C. and Redd, S. (2013). ‚‚Measles transmission during air 
travel, United States.™™ Travel Medicine and 
Infectious Disease (2013) 11, 81e89 11: 81Œ89. 12Ortega-Sanchez, I.R., M. Vijayaraghavan, A.E. Barskey and G.S. Wallace (2012). ‚‚The economic 
burden of sixteen measles outbreaks on United 
States public health departments in 2011.™™ Vaccine 
32(11). 13Jennifer Zipprich, Kathleen Winter, Jill Hacker, Dongxiang Xia, James Watt, Kathleen Harriman. 
(2015) Measles OutbreakŠCalifornia, December 
2014ŒFebruary 2015. MMWR/February 20, 2015/
Vol. 64/No. 6: 153Œ154. 14Ortega-Sanchez, I.R., M. Vijayaraghavan, A.E. Barskey and G.S. Wallace (2012). ‚‚The economic 
burden of sixteen measles outbreaks on United 
States public health departments in 2011.™™ Vaccine 
32(11). infectious disease cases for which improved compliance by airlines and 
vessel operators to provide available 
traveler contact data would reduce 
onward spread of disease in the 
destination communities of exposed 
travelers. In addition, the change to the 
definition of ‚‚ill person™™ may also 
increase reporting of communicable 
diseases of public health concern 
onboard conveyances. Reduction in 
onward spread would also lead to the 
ability of the public health 
establishment to reduce effects of 
disease outbreaks, e.g., delay the spread of disease until a vaccine is available or 
limit the numbers of outbreaks and 
cases or reduce public anxiety 
associated with the risk of transmission. 
There may also be a reduction in the 
economic costs of many business sectors 
such as avoidance of costs to the travel 
and tourism industry78when a disease is contained in its early stages. Section 202(a) of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 requires 
that agencies prepare a written 
statement, which includes an 
assessment of anticipated costs and 
benefits, before proposing ‚‚any rule that 
includes any Federal mandate that may 
result in the expenditure by State, local, 
and tribal governments, in the aggregate, 
or by the private sector, of 
[$146,000,000 in 2015 USD] or more.™™ 
Not only will this final rule not cost 
State, local and tribal governments any 
expenditure, it is possible that these 
stakeholders who might be engaged in contact tracing may see a reduction in 
costs if the final rule is implemented 
and there is an improvement in airline 
compliance with HHS/CDC requests to 
provide traveler data. The Final Rule Traveler contact information will only be requested by HHS/CDC after a case of serious communicable disease (index 
case) is reported in a person who 
traveled on a commercial airline or 
vessel while contagious. Examples of 
serious communicable diseases include 
measles, novel influenzas, and viral 
hemorrhagic fevers such as Ebola among 
others. This type of situation 
necessitates identifying and locating 
passengers seated near the index case in 
order to conduct a contact investigation 
(CI). This final rule would lead to better 
health outcomes if public health 
departments are more quickly and effectively able to contact persons potentially exposed to the index case on 
an aircraft or vessel. These increased 
efficiencies should lead to smaller 
infectious disease outbreaks and fewer 
public health resources needed to 
control an outbreak. There are multiple communicable diseases including quarantinable (e.g., 
tuberculosis, MERS, and Ebola) and 
non-quarantinable (e.g., measles, varicella, pertussis, rabies, 
meningococcal, and rubella) diseases 
that may necessitate a contact 
investigation to prevent spread of 
disease in the community. HHS/CDC 
notes that for non-quarantinable 
diseases, HHS/CDC efforts would 
primarily be limited to assisting health 
departments to notify individuals of 
their potential exposures. HHS/CDC was 
unable to quantify the benefits of 
preventing the spread of all diseases as a group because of differences in the 
characteristics of each disease. The 
differences with respect to potential 
spread and impact make it difficult to 
assess the benefits that may accrue from 
reduced spread of all diseases. The 
quantified analysis focuses on the two 
diseases that generate the greatest 
number of contacts to follow up: 
Measles and tuberculosis. The ongoing persistence of measles in the United States provides a good 
example of the need for this final rule. 
In 2000, measles was declared no longer 
endemic in the United States due to 
high vaccination rates. Cases and 
outbreaks of measles continue to occur, 
however, as a result of importation from 
other countries and lack of adherence to 
the recommendation for measles 
vaccination (http://www.cdc.gov/
vaccines/hcp/acip-recs/vacc-specific/
mmr.html). The United States is 
currently discovering the greatest 
number of measles cases that have been 
identified since the declaration of 
measles elimination; 97% of recent 
cases were associated with importations 
from other countries. Of 45 direct 
importations, 40 occurred in U.S. 
citizens after traveling abroad.9 Among air travelers exposed to measles during flights, post-exposure 
prophylaxis (PEP) with measles- 
containing vaccine (within 72 hours) or 
immune globulin (within 6 days) can 
prevent onset of disease,10halting outbreaks before they begin. However, without accurate and timely contact data, it is frequently difficult to 
intervene within these timelines. A 
recent analysis showed that 9 cases 
likely occurred as a result of exposure 
during 108 flights with 74 case-travelers 
over 3 years. Although there was no 
onward transmission from these 9 
cases,11future cases may lead to larger outbreaks. Measles outbreaks can have substantial associated costs. One model- 
based analysis showed that 16 outbreaks 
with 107 confirmed measles cases cost 
an estimated $2.7 million to $5.3 
million U.S. dollars for public health 
departments to contain.12The estimate is based on outbreak-specific travel 
expenses and the opportunity cost of 
diverting public health staff to outbreak 
response activities and is not based on 
the cost of hiring additional staff. This 
corresponds to an average cost per 
outbreak of about $250,000 in 2015 
USD. In comparison, a total of 125 cases 
occurring in 8 States and three countries 
were associated with a single measles 
outbreak that originated in late 
December 2014 in amusement theme 
parks in Orange County, California.13 Thus, the number of cases in this one outbreak exceeded the total number of 
outbreak-associated cases identified in 
16 outbreaks during 2011. The source of 
the initial exposure has not been 
identified so it is not possible to 
determine where this index case was 
exposed. However, this example 
demonstrates the speed with which 
communicable diseases can be 
transmitted and the importance of 
quickly identifying persons that may 
have been exposed during air or 
maritime travel. It is possible that the 
costs of this one outbreak, which spread 
across 8 States, exceeded the total costs 
of all 16 outbreaks that occurred in 2011 
and were estimated to cost public health 
departments a total of $2.7 million to 
$5.4 million dollars.14 In the absence of interventions by public health departments, travelers VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00045Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6934 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
infected with measles during international travel would be as likely 
as any other individuals to initiate a 
measles outbreak. In the absence of 
HHS/CDC efforts to retrieve and 
transmit contact data, public health 
departments would not be able to 
contact travelers to offer post-exposure 
prophylaxis and to recommend self- 
monitoring for potential measles 
symptoms. Summary of Quantifiable and Qualitative Results of the Regulatory 
Impact Analysis The Summary Table provides estimated total monetary results for 
stakeholders™ costs and benefits of 
implementing the final rule. The 
Summary Table (Table 2) includes 
estimates associated with changes to the definition of ‚ill person™ in 42 CFR 70.1/ 71.1 and the codification of international traveler data collection 
processes of aircraft and vessel contact 
investigations under 42 CFR 71.4/71.5. 
The best estimates of annual costs are 
$32,622 compared to the best estimate 
of annual benefits at $110,045. The 
upper bound annual quantified costs are $430,839 and the upper bound quantified benefits are $297,393. Lower 
bound quantified costs are $10,959 and 
benefits are $26,337. The measles and tuberculosis examples should not be considered a complete estimate of non-quantified 
benefits associated with this final rule, 
because the impact of this final rule to 
mitigate many different types of 
infectious disease outbreaks cannot be 
quantified. It just provides examples 
based on the two diseases for which 
contact investigations are most 
frequently undertaken. Besides 
communicable diseases commonly 
reported in the United States (e.g., 
measles, tuberculosis), this final rule 
may also improve HHS/CDC™s ability to 
respond to diseases that are infrequently 
diagnosed in the United States (e.g., 
Ebola, novel influenza, Middle East 
Respiratory Syndrome). For example, it 
is possible that HHS/CDC may need to 
prepare to address both Ebola and 
another disease such as novel influenza 
or Middle East Respiratory Syndrome 
(MERS) occurring in two separate 
countries or regions during a given year. For example, in 2014, two international travelers on commercial flights from the 
Middle East arrived in the United States 
while infected with MERS and two 
international travelers on commercial 
flights from West Africa arrived while 
infected with Ebola. Regardless of the 
infectious disease scenarios faced by HHS/CDC in a given year, this final rule 
should improve HHS/CDC™s ability to 
mitigate infectious diseases in the 
future. To the extent that the final rule 
would lead to improved responsiveness 
of airlines and vessel operators to HHS/ CDC traveler data requests via manifest orders, HHS/CDC may become better 
able to respond to infectious diseases 
threats and (1) reduce case-loads during 
infectious disease outbreaks, (2) reduce 
public anxiety during disease outbreaks, 
(3) mitigate economic impacts on 
businesses as a consequence of reduced 
public anxiety, and (4) reduce the 
amount of personnel labor time to 
conduct large-scale contact 
investigations in response to a new 
infectious disease or one with serious 
public health and medical consequences 
like Ebola. TABLE2ŠSUMMARYOF
MONETIZEDAND
QUALITATIVEBENEFITSAND
COSTSOFTHE
FINALRULE [2015 USD] Category Most likely estimate Lower bound estimate Upper bound estimate Source citation (RIA, preamble, etc.) BENEFITS Annual monetized routine benefits from reduced effort by CDC and health department to search for exposed contacts (0% discount rate).$12,218 $0 $12,218 RIA. 
Annual monetized routine benefits from reduced illness (0% discount rate)$97,828 $26,337 $272,958 RIA. 
Total annual monetized routine benefits (0% discount rate)..........................$110,045 $26,337 $285,175 RIA. 
Qualitative (unquantified benefits)...................................................................To the extent that airlines or vessel operators 
have data available and improve responsive-ness of airlines and vessel operators to HHS/
CDC traveler data requests results from the 
implementation of the provisions in this final 
rule, HHS/CDC may become better able to re-
spond to infectious diseases threats and (1) re-
duce case-loads during infectious disease out-
breaks, (2) reduce public anxiety during dis-
ease outbreaks, (3) mitigate economic impacts 
on businesses as a consequence of reduced 
public anxiety, and (4) reduce the amount of 
personnel labor time to conduct large-scale CIs 
in response to a new infectious disease or one 
with serious public health and medical con-
sequences like Ebola. RIA. COSTS Annual monetized costs for changes to illness reporting (airlines and vessel operators, 0% discount rate)*.
$0 $0 $376,554 RIA. 
Annual monetized costs for changes to codification of manifest order proc-ess (airlines and vessel operators), 0% discount rate)*.
$12,654 $0 $25,308 RIA. 
Annual monetized costs for additional activities by health department con-tacting individuals exposed to communicable diseases during inter-
national travel (0% discount rate).$19,968 $10,959 $28,977 RIA. 
Total annual monetized routine costs (0% discount rate)..............................$32,622 $10,959 $430,839 RIA. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00046Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6935 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
15http://www.census.gov/econ/susb/. 16https://www.census.gov/cgi-bin/sssd/naics/ naicsrch. 17U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration (January 2015) The Economic Impact of Civil Aviation on the U.S. 
Economy: Economic Impact of Civil Aviation by 
State. http://www.faa.gov/air_traffic/publications/ media/2015-economic-impact-report.pdf (Accessed 5/2/2016). 18Bureau of Transportation Statistics TŒ100 Market data. http://www.transtats.bts.gov/Data_
Elements.aspx?Data=1 (Accessed 5/2/2016). 19U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration (March 2012) North American Cruise Statistical Snapshot, 2011 http:// 
www.marad.dot.gov/wp-content/uploads/pdf/ 
North_American_Cruise_Statistics_Quarterly_Snapshot.pdf (Accessed 5/2/2016). 20According to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, 54,236 passengers and crew arrive via 
vessel each day, which correspond to 
approximately 18 million per year. https:// 
www.transportation.gov/policy/aviation-policy/us- 
international-air-passenger-and-freight-statistics- 
report Accessed on 5/2/2106. TABLE2ŠSUMMARYOF
MONETIZEDAND
QUALITATIVEBENEFITSAND
COSTSOFTHE
FINALRULEŠContinued [2015 USD] Category Most likely estimate Lower bound estimate Upper bound estimate Source citation (RIA, preamble, etc.) Annual quantified, but unmonetized, costs.....................................................
None RIA. Qualitative (unquantified) costs.......................................................................
None RIA. The second analysis in this final rule is of a number of provisions that aim to improve transparency of how HHS/CDC uses its regulatory authorities to protect 
public health. These changes are not 
intended to provide HHS/CDC with new 
regulatory authorities, but rather to 
clarify the agency™s standard operating 
procedures and policies with regard to 
pre-existing regulations in 42 CFR parts 
70 and 71 including due process rights 
for individuals under Federal orders. 
HHS/CDC believes that improving the 
quality of its regulations by providing 
clearer explanations of its policies and procedures is an important public benefit. However, HHS/CDC is not able 
to attach a dollar value to this added benefit in a significant way. Economic Baseline Regulated Entities: Airlines and Vessel Operators The group of entities that may be affected by this final rule would include 
international and interstate aircraft 
operators, vessel operators, travelers, 
State or local health departments and 
the Federal government agencies that 
interact with these groups. Since this final rule primarily updates regulatory 
requirements to better match current 
practice, the economic impacts are 
marginal changes to current practice 
that result from codification of current 
practices. The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) is used 
by Federal statistical agencies in 
classifying business establishments for 
the purpose of collecting, analyzing, and 
publishing statistical data related to the 
U.S. business economy. A summary of 
the total numbers of each entity is 
summarized in Table 3. TABLE3ŠSUMMARYOFTHE
NUMBEROF
FIRMSENGAGEDIN
INTERSTATEAND
INTERNATIONALAIRAND
MARITIMETRAVEL NAICS codes NAICS description Number of firms in industry 481111...............Scheduled Passenger Air Transportation....................................................................
........................................264 
481112...............Scheduled Freight Air Transportation......................................................................
............................................212 
481219...............Other Nonscheduled Air Transportation.....................................................................
.........................................516 
483111...............Deep Sea Freight Transportation...........................................................................
.............................................191 
483112...............Deep Sea Passenger Transportation.........................................................................
.........................................54 
483113...............Coastal and Great Lakes Freight Transportation............................................................
....................................337 
483114...............Coastal and Great Lakes Passenger Transportation..........................................................
................................110 
483211...............Inland Water Freight Transportation.......................................................................
.............................................318 
483212...............Inland Water Passenger Transportation.....................................................................
.........................................193 
Statistics of U.S. Businesses, 2013 U.S. all industries.15 2012 North American Industry Classification System (NAICS).16 According to a report by the Federal Aviation Administration, in 2012, U.S. civil aviation-related economic activity 
generated $1.5 trillion and supported 
11.8 million jobs with $459.4 billion in 
earnings.17In 2015, the domestic U.S. market for air travel included 696 
million passengers and the international 
market included another 198 million 
travelers.18 In 2011, there were approximately 11 million North American cruise ship passengers spending 71.8 million 
passenger nights on board vessels. The 
cruise ship market was highly 
concentrated with four firms accounting 
for 98% of the total market.19In total, approximately 18 million travelers enter 
the United States each year via cruise or 
cargo ships.20 The domestic/international air carrier market is an ever-shifting corporate landscape. Both U.S. and foreign airlines engage in ‚‚code-sharing™™ 
arrangements, whereby the marketing 
carrier places its call sign (or code) on 
the operating carrier™s flight. For 
purposes of this rule, reporting duty 
would require the operating carrier to 
report on all passengers and crewmembers, whether traveling on the 
operator™s code or another carrier™s. The complexity of the domestic/foreign airline-corporations™ legal and 
financial arrangements makes it very 
difficult to ascertain exactly how each 
and every domestic and foreign airline 
would be affected by the 
implementation costs associated with 
this final rule; presumably, some of the 
costs might be passed along to the 
carrier putting its code on the operating 
carrier, pursuant to the particular terms 
of each applicable contract. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00047Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6936 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
Under this final rule, the operator of any airline operating a flight arriving into the United States must make 
certain contact information described 
below available within 24 hours of a 
request by HHS/CDC, to the extent that 
such data are available to the operator. 
This requirement also applies to the 
operator of any vessel carrying 13 or 
more passengers (excluding crew) and, 
which is not a ferry as defined in under 
46 U.S.C. 2101 and U.S. Coast Guard 
(USCG) regulations (46 CFR 2.10Œ25). 
This requirement is a codification of 
current practice, and applies to any of 
the data elements that the airline or 
vessel operator may have available and 
authorizes the airline or vessel operator 
to transmit the contact information in 
any format and through any system 
available and acceptable to both the 
airline and HHS/CDC. Again, because 
this is a codification of current 
practices, HHS/CDC assumes airlines 
and vessel operators will continue to 
submit data through current 
mechanisms, although HHS/CDC will 
accept others that are mutually 
acceptable. To simplify the analysis and to develop conservative cost estimates, 
HHS/CDC assumed that all costs to 
airlines and vessel operators would be 
passed along to U.S.-based airlines, 
vessel operators, or U.S. consumers. Diseases Affected by the Rule HHS/CDC has gathered statistics, or reported information on, a number of notifiable and quarantinable diseases 
(Table 4) that form the basis for 
estimates of quantitative and qualitative 
benefits. The final rule provides CDC 
with the authority to take certain actions 
with regard to both quarantinable and 
non-quarantinable diseases. For non- 
quarantinable diseases, efforts would be 
primarily limited to early identification 
and notification of exposed individuals 
and transmission of contact data to local 
and State health departments. For quarantinable diseases, efforts could 
include issuance of Federal orders for 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release of exposed/infected individuals. TABLE4ŠDISEASESANALYZED Non-quarantinable Quarantinable Measles Pertussis 
Rabies 
Meningococcal dis-ease Varicella 
Rubella Tuberculosis. 
Viral Hemorrhagic Fe-vers. Middle East Res-piratory Syndrome 
Coronavirus 
(MERS). In addition, these diseases for which HHS/CDC currently issues manifest orders and conducts contact 
investigations can also be subdivided to 
identify those encountered with some 
frequency (routine diseases): 
Tuberculosis, measles, meningococcal 
disease, pertussis and rubella. Among 
these diseases, only tuberculosis is a 
quarantinable disease. The second class 
is a group of new or emerging diseases, 
or diseases with serious public health 
and medical consequences, that are not 
currently prevalent, but are foreseeable 
as a future threat, e.g., severe acute respiratory syndromes (including SARS 
and MERS), Ebola. This second group 
only includes quarantinable diseases, 
which may be updated in the future by 
Executive Order, but which are not 
being updated as a part of the final rule. 
Although HHS/CDC may help identify 
travelers ill with or exposed to measles, 
meningococcal disease, pertussis, 
rubella, rabies, and varicella, HHS/CDC 
does not have the authority to place any 
travelers with such illnesses or 
exposures under Federal orders. For 
quarantinable diseases, illness reporting 
could lead to issuance of Federal orders 
if travelers are reasonably believed to be 
infected with a quarantinable 
communicable disease in a qualifying 
stage. Such restrictions would not occur 
based simply on an illness report by airline or vessel operator staff and 
would require a medical assessment by 
a public health professional. Contact Investigations and DiseasesŠ Interstate and International The number of travelers exposed to an index case that are subject to a contact 
investigation (CI) varies by disease and 
may include only the two passengers 
sitting adjacent to the index case 
(meningococcal disease or pertussis) or 
as much as the entire aircraft (e.g., 
initial investigations of cases of MERS 
or Ebola) (Table 5). The entire aircraft or 
vessel may be subject to CI if the disease 
is new and transmission patterns are not 
well understood (e.g., MERS) or if the disease is felt to have serious medical or 
public health consequences (e.g., Ebola). Some CIs are only initiated for long- 
duration travel (e.g., tuberculosis for flights of 8 hours or longer). For other 
diseases (e.g., measles, MERS), CIs are undertaken regardless of duration. The table also includes criteria to be considered a contact for persons 
exposed on vessels. In contrast to air 
contact investigations, most maritime 
contact investigations are undertaken 
before travelers disembark from vessels. 
Another difference between air and 
maritime contact investigations is that 
varicella contact investigations are 
frequently undertaken among maritime 
travelers on vessels, but are not pursued 
for air travelers. In addition, HHS/CDC 
has not yet had to conduct a contact 
investigation for Middle East 
Respiratory Syndrome or viral 
hemorrhagic fever for travelers exposed 
on vessels. The criteria listed in Table 
5 are current as of October 2016, but 
may be updated in the future based on 
reviews of the effectiveness of contact 
investigations. For example, HHS/CDC 
stopped providing contact data to health 
departments for mumps investigations 
after reviewing evidence of the 
effectiveness of mumps contact 
investigations. TABLE5ŠCONTACTINVESTIGATIONCRITERIABY
DISEASE, PHD FOLLOWUP Disease CI initiated if Persons contacted, aircraft Persons contacted, vessels Recommended activities 
Ebola (Quar-antinable).All cases................................All passengers and crew as 
of April 2016. In the future, the recommendation may 
change to include fewer 
passengers and crew.Cruise vesselŠany pas-senger or crew who made 
have come into contact with 
the index case™s body fluids 
while the index case was 
symptomatic.Cargo vesselŠall on board the vessel while the index 
case was symptomatic.Monitoring for 21 days after last potential exposure. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00048Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6937 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
TABLE5ŠCONTACTINVESTIGATIONCRITERIABY
DISEASE, PHD FOLLOWUPŠContinued Disease CI initiated if Persons contacted, aircraft Persons contacted, vessels Recommended activities 
Measles (Non- quarantin-able).All cases if notification re-ceived within 21 days of 
flight.Passengers seated within 2 rows either direction of the 
index case, all babies-in- 
arms, crew in same cabin. 
All passengers and crew on 
flights with <50 seats.Direct face-to-face contact or shared confined space >1 
hour with symptomatic 
case-patient.Offer MMR vaccination if non- immune and <72 hrs. since 
exposure; immune globulin 
if indicated and within 6 
days of exposure. Meningo-coc-cal disease 
(Non-quar-
antinable).Case meets the definition of meningococcal disease 
within 14 days of travel.For air travel: Flight >8 hrs. (or shorter flights if direct 
exposure reported).Passengers or crew sitting di-rectly to the left and right of 
the index case or with po-
tential for direct contact 
with oral or respiratory se-
cretions.Cruise vesselsŠCabin mates of or potential for direct 
contact with oral or res-
piratory secretions of case- 
patient during the 7 days 
prior to symptom onset until 
24 hours after implementa-
tion of effective anti-
microbial therapy.Cargo vesselsŠAll on board the vessel during the 7 
days prior to symptom 
onset of case-patient until 
24 hours after implementa-
tion of effective anti-
microbial therapy.Post-exposure chemoprophylaxis. New or re-emerging in-
fluenza vi-
ruses (Quar-
antinable).All cases during early stages of international spread.All passengers and crew.......All crew and passengers.......Monitoring for 10 days after 
last potential exposure; 
possible serologic testing. Pertussis (Non-quar-
antinable).All cases if notification is re-ceived within 21 days of 
travel.Passengers sitting next to index case.Direct face-to-face contact or shared confined space >1 
hour with symptomatic 
case-patient.Post-exposure chemoprophylaxis. Rubella (Non- quarantin-
able).All cases if notification is re-ceived within 60 days of 
travel.Passengers seated within 2 rows + crew in same cabin. 
All passengers and crew on 
flights with <50 seats.Direct face-to-face contact or shared confined space >1 
hour with symptomatic 
case-patient.Serologic testing and guid-ance for pregnant women. Severe Acute Respiratory 
Syndromes 
(Quarantin-
able).All cases................................SARS-Coronavirus: All pas-
sengers and crew.MERS: All passengers and crew contacted during 2014 
CIs. Future CIs will include 
passengers seated within 2 
rows of index case.Cruise vesselŠany pas-senger or crew who had di-
rect face-to-face contact or 
shared confined space >1 
hour with symptomatic 
case-patient.Cargo vesselŠall on board the vessel while the index 
case was symptomatic.Monitoring for 10Œ14 days after last potential expo-
sure; potential serologic 
testing. TB (Quarantin-able).Notification received within 3 months of travel, clinical cri-
teria met For air travel: 
Flight >8 hrs.Passengers seated within 2 rows.Cargo vessel: All crew mem-bers within 3 months of di-
agnosis who worked with 
case-patient.Cruise vessel: Passenger travel companions or crew 
working in close proximity/
sharing living quarters.Aircraft: Testing for latent TB infection; chest radiograph 
if the LTBI test is positive. Vessels: Clinical assessment for symptoms and chest 
radiograph. Varicella (Non- quarantin-
able).All cases on vessels..............NA..........................................Any person who has had 
5 minutes of direct face-to- 
face contact with a varicella 
case during the infectious 
period.Varicella vaccination if unvaccinated/non-immune 
and <3 days since expo-
sure (possibly up to 5 
days). High-risk contacts 
evaluated Varicella Zoster 
immune globulin if <10 
days after exposure. The Quarantine Activity Reporting System (QARS), which contains, among other data, information collected under 
OMB Control Numbers 0920Œ0134, 
0920Œ0488, 0920Œ0821, and 0920Œ0900, 
is a web-based and secure electronic 
system that supports collection of data 
for ill persons on inbound or interstate flights and vessels and at land border crossings; infectious disease threats, and 
follow-up actions. Currently, HHS/CDC 
Quarantine Stations at U.S. ports of 
entry are using the system to record 
their daily activities. All CIs undertaken 
by HHS/CDC are documented in QARS. CIs for international flights from January 2010 through December 2015 are summarized in Table 6. More than 
half (73.2%) were initiated as a result of 
tuberculosis cases. Measles is the next 
most common disease (20.8%). The 
remaining 6% are subdivided across 
rubella, pertussis, meningococcal VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00049Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6938 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
disease and other diseases. This table also includes CIs undertaken for MERS. TABLE6ŠINTERNATIONALAIRCONTACTINVESTIGATIONS, AVERAGENUMBEROF
ANNUALINVESTIGATIONSAND
CONTACTS BYDISEASE, JAN2010 THROUGHDEC2015 [QARS data]a Disease Total investigations Total contacts Average investigations per year Average contacts 
per year Percent of total contacts Influenza, avian................................................................
0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
MERS Coronavirusb........................................................2 270 0.3 45.0 1.7 
Measles............................................................................
94 3,381 15.7 563.5 20.8 
Meningococcal disease....................................................
8 9 1.3 1.5 0.1 
Other................................................................................
3 97 0.5 16.2 0.6 
Pertussis..........................................................................
11 18 1.8 3.0 0.1 
Rabies..............................................................................
3 4 0.5 0.7 0.0 
Rubella.............................................................................
17 532 2.8 88.7 3.3 
TB (clinically active).........................................................
318 11,928 
53.0 1,988.0 
73.2 Viral hemorrhagic fever....................................................
7 53 1.2 8.8 0.3 Total..........................................................................
463 16,292 77.2 2,715 ........................
aIn May 2011, CIs were discontinued for international outbound flights. To give a better picture of what CIs will look like under this new pro-
tocol, flights from January 2010 to May 2011 have been excluded from the above-reported counts. In addition, CIs for mumps have been discon-

tinued. Prior to discontinuation, there were approximately 25 contacts per year investigated for mumps. bFor these CIs, contact information for the entire flight was required. In rare instances, a disease is ruled out after a CI has happened. HHS/CDC also requests traveler contact data to support contact investigations for travelers exposed to 
infectious diseases on interstate flights. 
The numbers of investigations and 
contacts during 2010Œ15 are summarized in Table 7. In contrast to 
international flights, very few contact 
investigations for tuberculosis were 
undertaken on interstate flights, because 
most interstate flights do not meet the 
8-hour time requirement for tuberculosis contact investigations 
(Table 5). The majority of contacts were 
investigated after exposure to measles 
cases (76%) followed by MERS (8.4%) 
and viral hemorrhagic fevers including 
Ebola (8.0%). TABLE7ŠINTERSTATEAIRCONTACTINVESTIGATIONS, AVERAGENUMBEROF
ANNUALINVESTIGATIONSAND
CONTACTSBY
 DISEASE, JANUARY2010 THROUGHDECEMBER2015 [QARS data] Disease Total investigations Total contacts Average number of investigations per year Average number of contacts per year Percent of total contacts Measles............................................................................
72 3033 12.0 505.5 76.1 
Meningococcal disease....................................................
1 1 0.2 0.2 0.0 
MERS Coronavirusa........................................................2 334 0.3 55.7 8.4 
Other................................................................................
0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
Pertussis..........................................................................
43 83 7.2 13.8 2.1 
Rabies..............................................................................
3 3 0.5 0.5 0.1 
Rubella.............................................................................
8 172 1.3 28.7 4.3 
TB (clinically active).........................................................
2 40 0.3 6.7 1.0 Viral hemorrhagic fever....................................................
4 319 0.7 53.2 8.0 Total..........................................................................
135 3,985 22.5 664.2 
Notes: aFor these CIs, contact information for the entire flight was required. In rare instances, a disease is ruled out after a CI has happened. The numbers of contacts for maritime contact investigations are summarized in Table 8. For maritime investigations, 
the majority of contacts were 
investigated for varicella (79%) 
followed by tuberculosis (13%) and measles (6%). Most of the varicella and 
measles contact investigations were 
initiated while travelers were still on 
vessels. Besides the investigations listed 
in Table 8, gastrointestinal illness cases 
on cruise vessels carrying 13 or more passengers are reported to HHS/CDC™s Vessel Sanitation Program and cases of 
Legionnaires™ disease are reported 
directly to HHS/CDC™s Respiratory 
Diseases Branch. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00050Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6939 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
TABLE8ŠMARITIMEPASSENGERDATACOLLECTION, AVERAGENUMBEROF
ANNUALCONTACTSBY
DISEASE [January 2010ŒDecember 2015] Passengers per voyage Total investigations Total contacts Average number of investigations per year Average number of contacts per year Percent of total contacts Measles............................................................................
5 288 0.83 48 6.3 
Meningococcal disease....................................................
3 22 0.5 3.67 0.5 MERS Coronavirus**.......................................................
0 0 0 0 0.0 Other................................................................................
1 9 0.17 1.5 0.2 
Pertussis..........................................................................
3 14 0.5 2.33 0.3 
Rabies..............................................................................
0 0 0 0 0.0 
Rubella.............................................................................
2 26 0.33 4.33 0.6 
TB (clinically active).........................................................
50 585 8.3 97.5 12.8 Viral hemorrhagic fever....................................................
0 0 0 0 0.0 Varicella (chickenpox)a....................................................206 3,627 34.3 604.5 79.3 
Total..........................................................................
270 4,571 45 761.8 100.0 
aOne CI for varicella involved entire crew of the vessel (1224). Traveler Manifest Orders for Airlines Contact tracing is most effective at reducing cases of communicable disease at the early stages of a potential 
outbreak as soon after initial exposure 
as possible. Therefore, if an efficient 
contact system is not in place when the 
first ill travelers arrive, the benefits of 
contact tracing are greatly diminished. Contact data requests only occur after a case of serious communicable disease 
(index case) is reported in a person who 
traveled on a commercial airline or 
vessel while contagious. This type of 
situation necessitates identifying and 
locating travelers seated near the index 
case in order to conduct a CI. At present, HHS/CDC uses a multi- step process to obtain traveler contact 
information from airlines. HHS/CDC 
issues a written order to the airline that 
requires the airline to provide HHS/CDC 
with contact information about the 
index case and traveler contacts. The 
order cites current regulatory language 
in 42 CFR 71.32(b), as authorized by 42 
U.S.C. 264. HHS/CDC requires that the 
airline provide it with the traveler™s first 
and last name, seat number, two phone 
numbers and email address. HHS/CDC instructs airlines and vessel operators to 
provide data when available or to report 
when data are unavailable. The time it 
takes for HHS/CDC to obtain the 
available traveler contact data can range 
from a few hours to a few days. From 
2010 through May 2015, about 70% of 
manifests from airlines arrived within 3 
days of the request, 15% arrived 
between 3 and 6 days after a request, 
15% arrived after more than six days, 
and nine requests took more than a 
month or were never received by HHS/ CDC. At present, HHS/CDC requests that airlines and vessels provide available 
traveler contact data within 24 hours for ‚‚urgent™™ manifest requests. In current practice, requests for contact data are 
only considered ‚‚non-urgent™™ for 
contact investigations in which travelers 
had rubella (for which there is no 
available prophylaxis) or tuberculosis or 
for situations in which HHS/CDC is not 
notified of travelers diagnosed with 
some communicable diseases until after 
a certain amount of time during which 
prophylaxis would be effective (e.g., for measles: 6 days). If the analysis is limited to diseases where requests for 
traveler contact data are marked 
‚‚urgent™™ by HHS/CDC (measles, 
meningococcal disease, MERS, viral 
hemorrhagic fevers, and rabies), 
performance improved such that 51% 
arrived within 24 hours of a request, 
33% arrived between 1Œ3 days after a 
request, 13% between 3Œ6 days and 
only 3% arrived after 6 days. HHS/CDC 
notes that there may be instances where 
CDC may not have included the correct 
information in a manifest order (e.g., 
flight number or port of entry). The 
provision of incorrect flight information 
may have caused delay submission in 
some of the instances cited above. While HHS/CDC requires that all information be provided upon first 
order for information, HHS/CDC has 
consistently seen that the information 
provided by a majority of airlines 
appears limited to frequent flyer 
information, or other limited contact 
information. Overall, the completeness 
of data provided by airlines varied such 
that airlines generally fell into two 
categories. Some airlines always 
provided only the passenger name and 
seat number. Other airlines would 
provide some additional contact 
information for passengers. However, 
even among these airlines, contact data 
for some of the passengers only 
included names and seat numbers. Considering all requests from 2014, at 
least one additional piece of contact 
information was provided for only about 
39% of passengers. If the sample were 
restricted to only flights for which any 
contact information was provided (1,270 
out of 2,411 total passengers), the 
fraction of passengers with at least one 
piece of contact information beyond 
name and seat number increased from 
39% to 73.9%. This contact information 
would include U.S. address for 41.7% of 
passengers and one phone number for 
45% of passengers. As a result of HHS/ 
CDC™s use of available information and 
technology and its partnerships with 
other Federal agencies, contact tracing 
of exposed travelers can now be 
accomplished more rapidly than would 
be possible if only the contact data 
provided by airlines were used. 
However, if airlines or vessel operators 
have additional data relative to what is 
currently provided to DHS, the 
efficiency of contact investigations 
could improve. Change to Definition of an ‚‚Ill Person™™ HHS/CDC is updating the definition of ‚‚ill person™™ in 42 CFR 70.1 and 71.1 to better facilitate identification of communicable diseases of public health 
concern aboard flights and voyages. 
However, HHS/CDC currently requests 
that aircraft and vessels report several of 
the symptoms included in the revised 
definition of ill person. Besides aircraft 
and vessel operators, quarantine stations 
also receive illness reports from U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection, U.S. 
Coast Guard, State and local health 
departments, and health facilities. These 
reports are not included in this analysis, 
which focuses on reporting during 
travel. HHS/CDC has crafted the definition of ‚‚ill person™™ in such a way that it should VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00051Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6940 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
be understood by non-medically trained crewmembers and used to discern 
illnesses of public health interest that 
HHS/CDC would like to be made aware 
of according to 42 CFR 70.4 from those 
that it does not (e.g., common cold), while more closely aligning the 
definition with the symptoms reporting 
guidelines published by ICAO in Note 1 
to paragraph 8.15 of Annex 9 to the 
Convention on International Civil 
Aviation. To further assist flight crewmembers (and vessel crewmembers 
under part 71) in identifying individuals 
with a reportable illness, HHS/CDC provides the following in-depth 
explanations and examples of the 
communicable diseases that such signs 
and symptoms might indicate. Note that 
these explanations also apply to the 
definition of ‚‚ill person™™ under part 71 
and are discussed in the preamble of 
this final rule. The current illness reporting requirements for interstate travel are 
summarized in 42 CFR 70.4 and state 
that ‚‚The master of any vessel or person 
in charge of any conveyance engaged in 
interstate traffic, on which a case or 
suspected case of a communicable 
disease develops shall, as soon as 
practicable, notify the local health 
authority at the next port of call, station, 
or stop, and shall take such measures to 
prevent the spread of the disease as the 
local health authority directs.™™ 
Communicable disease is defined in 42 
CFR 70.1 as ‚‚illnesses due to infectious 
agents or their toxic products, which 
may be transmitted from a reservoir to 
a susceptible host either directly as from 
an infected person or animal or indirectly through the agency of an intermediate plant or animal host, 
vector, or the inanimate environment.™™ Thus, the changes in this final rule would amount to fewer illness reports 
than may be anticipated under the 
current regulation. However, in practice, 
according to CDC guidance available at 
http://www.cdc.gov/quarantine/air/ 
reporting-deaths-illness/guidance- 
reporting-onboard-deaths- 
illnesses.html, the symptoms requested 
for international and interstate illness 
reporting are the same subset. In 
addition, according to guidance, reports 
received by HHS/CDC would be 
considered sufficient to satisfy the 
requirement to report to local health 
departments since HHS/CDC would 
coordinate any response activities with 
the local health department after receipt 
of the illness report. This final rule would align the definition from CDC guidance with 
regulatory text by requiring reports of ill 
travelers with fever and persistent 
cough, persistent vomiting, difficulty 
breathing, headache with stiff neck, 
decreased consciousness, travelers 
appearing obviously unwell, or 
unexplained bleeding. In practice, the 
codification of such guidance may 
increase costs to some or all airlines and 
vessel operators who submit illness 
reports based only upon symptoms 
currently identified in 42 CFR 71.1 and 
not based on HHS/CDC guidance. For 
illness reports from aircraft, DOT/FAA 
may also incur additional costs if the 
number of illness reports made by 
aircraft pilots in command to air traffic control and reported to HHS/CDC via 
the Domestic Events Network increases. For aircraft, the updated definition better aligns with symptoms reporting guidelines published by ICAO in Note 1 
to paragraph 8.15 of Annex 9 to the 
Convention on International Civil 
Aviation. Therefore, HHS/CDC does not 
anticipate much additional burden on 
airlines and vessel operators to report ill 
travelers during travel. Although HHS/CDC estimates the net change will be no cost to airline or 
vessel operators, it may be possible to 
examine the potential increase using 
simple assumptions. Table 9 shows the 
number of reports by pilots in command 
during flights and recorded in HHS/ CDC™s Quarantine Activity Reporting 
System (QARS). These include reports 
of illness that fit the illness definition 
specified in current 42 CFR 71.1, reports 
based on HHS/CDC™s guidance for 
airlines and vessel operators, reports 
made based on the guidelines in Note 1 
to paragraph 8.15 of Annex 9 to the 
Convention on International Civil 
Aviation, or illness reports unrelated to 
current regulation or guidance. Such 
reports can also be subdivided into 
reports requiring HHS/CDC response 
(‚‚response reports™™) and reports that 
HHS/CDC receives, but which do not 
require an HHS/CDC response (‚‚info- 
only reports™™). Info-only reports may 
include symptoms included in HHS/ 
CDC guidance, but for which the 
underlying condition can easily be 
diagnosed not to be a communicable 
disease of public health concern (e.g., 
influenza-like illness on an aircraft). 
Info-only reports can also be based on 
illnesses not requested by HHS/CDC 
guidance (e.g., motion sickness). TABLE9ŠTOTALNUMBERSOF
REPORTSMADEDURINGFLIGHTBY
AIRCRAFTOPERATORS, 2011 TO2015 [HHS/CDC QARS data] Year Category Based on symptoms included in current regulation Based on symptoms included in final rule Reports not based on symptoms included in either current regulation or final rule Total 2015..............................Info-only..............................................................
Response............................................................
30 33 55 22 43 
15 128 70 2014..............................Info-only..............................................................
Response............................................................
33 
19 61 36 42 
12 136 67 2013..............................Info-only..............................................................
Response............................................................
31 
21 46 25 29 4 106 50 2012..............................Info-only..............................................................
Response............................................................
34 
12 58 18 38 2 130 32 2011..............................Info-only..............................................................
Response............................................................
27 
25 39 29 25 
13 91 67 Average, Info-only..........................................................................................
31 51.8 35.4 118.2 
Average Response........................................................................................
22 26 9.2 57.2 Average, total.................................................................................................
53 77.8 44.6 175
.4 In addition to illness reports, HHS/CDC receives an average of 10 death reports during air travel each year. Since death reporting require-
ments are not changing, these are not analyzed. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00052Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6941 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
Table 9 shows that HHS/CDC already receives a number of reports based on symptoms included in HHS/CDC 
guidance that will be codified with this 
final rule. On average, among the total 
175 illness reports per year, about 78 
annual reports are based on symptoms 
included in the final rule, but not in 
current regulations compared to 53 
reports based on symptoms already 
listed in current regulations. The remaining 45 reports would include 
those based on fever alone or based on symptoms not included either in current regulatory text or in this final rule. The number of illness reports from master of vessels during voyages is summarized in Table 10. Compared to 
the breakdown in reports for aircraft, the 
vast majority of illness reports during 
voyages are for response as opposed to 
info-only. There may be greater 
specificity in reports from cruise vessels 
because of the presence of medical 
officers onboard vessels. On average, 
there were about 208 reports requiring follow-up and 10.6 info-only reports each year. In contrast to reports from 
aircraft, most of the reporting for vessels 
pertains to symptoms included in the 
current regulation (175 per year) as 
opposed to those specified in this final 
rule (32 per year). Very few reports from 
vessels (3.4 per year) were based on 
fever only or based on symptoms not 
included in either current regulation or 
specified in this final rule. TABLE10ŠTOTALNUMBERSOF
ILLNESSREPORTS(EXCLUDINGINFLUENZA-LIKEILLNESS) MADEDURINGVOYAGEBY
 MASTERSOF
VESSELS, 2011 TO2015 [HHS/CDC QARS data] Year Type of report 
Based on symptoms included in current regulation Based on symptoms included in final rule Reports not based on symptoms included in either current regulation or final rule Total 2015.......Info-only.....................................................................................
Response...................................................................................
5 179 4 21 4 1 13 201 2014.......Info-only.....................................................................................
Response...................................................................................
6 168 3 21 3 12 12 201 2013.......Info-only.....................................................................................
Response...................................................................................
1 145 1 48 3 11 5 204 2012.......Info-only.....................................................................................
Response...................................................................................
5 167 7 19 3 1 15 187 2011.......Info-only.....................................................................................
Response...................................................................................
1 196 3 32 4 19 8 247 Average, Info-only..........................................................................................
3.6 3.6 3.4 10.6 Average Response........................................................................................
171 28.2 8.8 208 Average, total.................................................................................................
174.6 31.8 12.2 218.6 In addition to the illness reports reported in the table, HHS/CDC receives about 115 reports of death during maritime travel each year. In addi-
tion, HHS/CDC requests, but not require reporting of influenza-like-illness from cruise vessels (also not included in above table). Baseline Contact Investigation Process for Routinely Imported Diseases This section reports the primary steps of CIs for routine diseases: •A traveler (the index case) is identified as ill either during the flight 
or voyage with a reportable illness or 
after with a notifiable disease. The 
aircraft pilot in command or master of 
vessel may report the illness directly to 
HHS/CDC. Illnesses on aircraft may also 
be reported indirectly to HHS/CDC via 
air traffic control. The FAA then passes 
the report to CDC through the Domestic 
Event Network. If the report occurs after 
travel, a healthcare facility would then 
report the illness either to HHS/CDC or 
public health departments (PHDs). •If CI criteria are met, HHS/CDC contacts the airlines for Æa manifest to determine where the index case was seated in relation to 
other passengers or crew members, DHHS/CDC then requests information available from DHS™ databases to verify 
or obtain passenger contact information 
not included in the manifest. DIf data are not available in DHS databases, HHS/CDC will require (as 
part of the manifest order) for the 
airlines to provide any available traveler 
contact information. The number of 
travelers for which contact data will be 
requested is based on the disease- 
specific criteria listed in Table 5. Once HHS/CDC has the traveler contact information and flight-seating 
chart, the CI begins. Current CI 
procedures are cumbersome, in part 
because of the difficulties associated 
with obtaining traveler contact 
information. HHS/CDC staff may contact 
airlines more than once to obtain 
traveler contact data including email 
address, one or two phone numbers, and 
address in the United States for U.S. 
citizens and permanent residents. When passenger contact information is delayed or partial, State/local public 
health departments are delayed in 
starting CIs and, depending on the 
disease, this delay could make it 
impossible to prevent illness and/or the 
transmission of disease. Further, PHDs could have improved success contacting 
passengers with more accurate or 
timelier data. The model for estimating the benefits of CIs is: Current number of CIs × 
(reduction in HHS/CDC and health 
department staff time/resources per 
contact) × value of staff time. The rest of this section reports both the quantifiable benefits arising from 
streamlining the CI process and a 
discussion of health benefits. The 
differential impacts of the various 
diseases make it hard to summarize the 
final rule™s effects given uncertainty 
around future probabilities of case(s) of 
multiple such notifiable disease(s). The 
timeliness of contact investigations 
could also be improved if improvements 
in illness reporting led to earlier 
diagnoses of communicable diseases. Estimating the Number of Infected Travelers Most air travelers with illness are not identified in flight, but rather seek 
medical care and are identified as an VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00053Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6942 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
21Margaret S. Coleman, unpublished data. 22Coleman, M.S., Marienau, K.J., Marano, N., Marks, S.M., Cetron, M.S. (2014). ‚‚Economics of United States tuberculosis airline contact 
investigation policies: a return on investment 
analysis.™™ TMAID 12(1):63Œ71. 23Personal communication from states to Dr. Margaret S. Coleman 2010. 24Discussion between Dr. Brian Maskery, Dr. Margaret S. Coleman and State and County Health 
Department contacts 11/21/2014. 25Nelson, K., Marienau, K.J., Schembri, C. and Redd, S. (2013). ‚‚Measles transmission during air 
travel, United States.™™ Travel Medicine and 
Infectious Disease (2013) 11, 81e89 11: 81Œ89. index case after their travel is completed. Compared to air travelers, 
maritime travelers spend more time on 
vessels during voyages and medical 
officers may be employed on cruise vessels. When communicable diseases are diagnosed after travel, the medical 
practitioner should notify HHS/CDC or 
a PHD if the diagnosed disease is on 
either the list of quarantinable 
communicable diseases or the list of 
notifiable diseases. If HHS/CDC can 
draw upon improved contact 
information based on the codification of 
requests for traveler contact data to 
aircraft and vessel operators as set forth 
in this final rule, the risk of onward 
disease transmission can be reduced. By 
contacting ill travelers more quickly, 
HHS/CDC may slow the spread and the 
severity of the outbreak. The benefits 
therefore depend on: •How many infected travelers are expected to enter the United States; •How many quarantinable or notifiable diseases are detected either 
on-board the aircraft/vessel or reported 
to HHS/CDC by PHDs; •How many exposed travelers will become ill as a result of exposure during 
travel; •How the infection will be transmitted within the U.S. population; •How effective public health agency contact tracing will be with and without 
the final rule. In addition to improved efficiencies associated with more timely or more 
complete provision of traveler contact 
data by airlines and vessel operators, 
there may also be an increase in the 
number of reports of ill travelers during 
travel that require HHS/CDC follow-up. 
Under the most likely scenario, there 
will not be a change in these reports, 
since the new definition better 
corresponds to reporting guidelines 
published by ICAO in Note 1 to 
paragraph 8.15 of Annex 9 to the 
Convention on International Civil 
Aviation and current HHS/CDC 
guidance. However, there may be an 
increase in illness reports depending on 
whether airlines and vessel operators 
increase reporting for required rather 
than recommended symptoms. Contact Investigations Supported by CDC and Undertaken by Partners at 
State and Local Health Departments The change to the definition of an ‚‚ill person™™ for the purposes of illness 
reporting and the codification of HHS/ CDC requests from airlines and vessel operators for traveler contact data may 
improve HHS/CDC™s ability to respond 
effectively and mitigate infectious 
disease outbreaks. There are a number of intermediate steps between either an 
illness report or receiving more 
complete or timelier traveler data and 
stopping an infectious disease outbreak. 
For example, the travelers exposed to 
the infectious disease would have to be 
contacted by health departments and 
comply with recommended public 
health measures, which could include 
some form of public health or medical 
follow up to mitigate their risk of 
becoming ill, or self-monitoring/
quarantine to mitigate the risk of 
transmitting that disease to other 
individuals. The amount of time HHS/CDC staff spend per air or maritime contact varies 
with the size of the CI because some 
tasks are CI-specific, such as filling out 
reports or obtaining manifests, and some 
are contact-specific such as determining 
a specific traveler™s contact information. 
The CI-specific labor time costs less per 
contact when an investigation includes 
more contacts, e.g., a manifest that takes 60 minutes of HHS/CDC staff time to 
obtain for 2 contacts is the equivalent of 
30 minutes-staff-time-per-contact while 
the same manifest listing 30 contacts is 
the equivalent of 2 minutes-staff-time- 
per-contact. On the other hand, the 
traveler-specific time tends to increase- 
per-contact with less information and 
decrease-per-contact with more 
information.21Further, the QARS system used to document and follow up 
on CIs requires full-time personnel to 
maintain the system, pull regular 
reports, and monitor follow-up of 
travelers contacted during CIs. Finally, 
HHS/CDC has two full-time persons 
regularly assigned as liaisons to DHS 
whose duties include gathering contact 
information from DHS systems. 
Therefore, for HHS/CDC staff time to 
initiate and follow up on different sized 
CIs, to track down traveler contact 
information from multiple sources, to 
work with PHDs, document and report 
on CIs, update and train in systems, and 
manage the staff involved in CIs, a cost 
of $180 per contact is estimated. This is 
the equivalent of 2 hours of a HHS/CDC 
staff person™s being paid the salary of a 
GSŒ13, step 4 plus 100% for benefits 
and employee overhead costs (Table 11). For PHD resources, HHS/CDC also estimated a cost-per-contact of $180, 
which is consistent with HHS/CDC 
costs and a recent publication adjusted 
to 2015 dollars.22PHD processes vary greatly from State to State and at the local level within a State. A couple of examples: •One State assigns 2 registered nurses (RNs) who perform 5 CIs or fewer 
per year for the entire State another 
State assigns 3 RNs, a Public Health 
Service Medical Officer, a physician, 
and a data analyst and conducts about 
25 CIs a year.23 •When one State receives information about passenger contacts from HHS/CDC, the State 
epidemiologist creates several 
documents to fax to the relevant county 
health departments, a team of an 
epidemiologist and RNs at the county 
then either call or visit the contacts if 
there is an address. But the State 
epidemiologist will make every effort to 
locate travelers even if their final 
destination is unclear.24 Finally, different diseases may elicit different levels of response at the PHD 
level, with a more rapid response for 
highly infectious diseases like measles 
that can be prevented with timely post- 
exposure prophylaxis and a more 
measured response for less infectious 
diseases like TB. By using the same cost 
for HHS/CDC and for PHDs, HHS/CDC 
believes the potential reductions in cost 
from reduced effort for PHDs to locate 
infectious disease contacts are 
conservatively estimated. TABLE11ŠCOST-PER-CONTACT CDC PHD $180......................................$180 
Infectious Disease Transmission During 
International Travel For some diseases, there is empirical data from which onboard transmission 
can be estimated. According to a 
published analysis of the outcomes of 
measles contact investigations (74 case- 
travelers on 108 flights resulting in 
3,399 contacts) in the United States 
between December 2008 and December 
2011, HHS/CDC could not assign 9% of 
measles contacts (322) to a health 
department due to insufficient contact 
data. Another 12% of these contacts 
(397) were believed to be outside the 
United States.25After HHS/CDC provides contact data to State health 
departments, HHS/CDC requests, but 
does not require health departments to VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00054Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6943 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
26Nelson, K., Marienau, K.J., Schembri, C. and Redd, S. (2013). ‚‚Measles transmission during air travel, United States.™™ Travel Medicine and 
Infectious Disease (2013) 11, 81e89 11: 81Œ89. 27Nelson, K., Marienau, K.J., Schembri, C. and Redd, S. (2013). ‚‚Measles transmission during air 
travel, United States.™™ Travel Medicine and 
Infectious Disease (2013) 11, 81e89 11: 81Œ89. 28Smith P, Marcuse E, Seward J, Zhao Z, WA O. Children and Adolescents Unvaccinated Against 
Measles: Geographic Clustering, Parents™ Beliefs, 
and Missed Opportunities. Public Health Rep. 
2015;5:485Œ504. 29Ko G, Thompson KM, Nardell EA. Estimation of tuberculosis risk on a commercial airliner. Risk 
Anal 2004;24:379e88. 30Marienau KJ, Cramer EH, Coleman MS, Marano N, Cetron MS. Flight related tuberculosis contact 
investigations in the United States: comparative risk 
and economic analysis of alternate protocols. Travel 
Med Infect Dis. 2014;12(1):54Œ62. 31Marienau KJ, Burgess GW, Cramer E, et al. Tuberculosis investigations associated with air 
travel: US Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, January 2007ŒJune 2008. Travel Med 
Infect Dis 2010;8:104e12. 32Marienau KJ, Burgess GW, Cramer E, et al. Tuberculosis investigations associated with air 
travel: US Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, January 2007ŒJune 2008. Travel Med 
Infect Dis 2010;8:104e12. provide data on the outcomes of their attempts to follow-up with travelers. 
Among the 2,673 contacts assigned to 
U.S. public health departments in 2008Œ 
11, HHS/CDC only received outcome 
data for 1,177 out of the 2,673 assigned 
contacts. This outcome data included 
reports from State health departments 
that 225 out of the 1,177 assigned 
contacts could not be located (19%). 
Among the 952 contacts for which HHS/ 
CDC received measles outcome data 
from health departments, there were 9 
lab-confirmed measles cases (1%). Since 
there may be reporting bias from health 
departments (i.e. health departments would be more likely to report outcome 
data for contacts that developed measles 
than for other exposed travelers that did 
not develop measles, HHS/CDC 
considers a range of measles incidence 
rates among exposed travelers from 9 
cases/2,673 contacts assigned to health 
departments (0.34%) to 9 cases/952 
exposed contacts with outcome data 
reported to HHS/CDC (0.95%). This 
probability could overstate or understate 
the true transmission rate depending on 
the length of the flight and seating 
configuration. On the other hand, it may understate the probability if cases were 
not reported or occurred overseas. The majority of travelers exposed to measles on aircraft (74%) had pre- 
existing immunity based on past 
measles immunization, past measles 
illness, or being born prior to 1957 and 
thus likely to have measles immunity 
even if they do not recall experiencing 
the disease.26Among the 952 exposed travelers, 8 cases occurred in the 247 
contacts (3.2%) without known pre- 
existing immunity compared to 1 case 
in the 705 contacts with past history of 
vaccination or measles illness (0.1%). 
The median age of measles cases in 
exposed air traveler contacts was 1.6 
years. Intervention by public health departments mitigates the risk of 
measles transmission in two ways. First, 
exposed travelers without measles 
immunity may be offered voluntary 
post-exposure prophylaxis with 
measles-containing vaccine (within 72 
hours) or immune globulin (within 6 
days),27which can prevent onset of disease, halting outbreaks before they 
begin. Under the status quo, relatively 
few exposed travelers receive post- 
exposure prophylaxis (just 11 out of 248 travelers with no history of measles immunization or infection). Second, 
exposed travelers would be counseled 
by health departments to self-isolate and 
seek treatment if they started to 
experience symptoms consistent with 
measles onset. For example infants 
exposed during travel and too young to 
be vaccinated could arrange for special 
precautions if they visit a pediatrician 
after becoming ill with measles-like 
symptoms to minimize the transmission 
to other unvaccinated infants. Both 
activities will limit the possibility of 
measles transmission to family members 
or others in the community. The attack 
rate for measles is estimated to be 90%, 
but the high background immunization rate and high efficacy of measles 
vaccine attenuates the burden of 
measles outbreaks in the United States. In summary, the potential size of a measles outbreak occurring depends on: •The number of persons contacted by the infectious measles patient •Background immunity among persons contacted ÆSurvey estimates have shown considerable heterogeneity in 
background vaccination rates such that 
80% of unvaccinated children live in 
counties comprising 40% of the total 
population.28 For tuberculosis, it is difficult to estimate the transmission rate on an 
aircraft or vessel. A modeling study 
suggests that the risk of infection is 
about 1/1000 on an 8.7 hour flight and 
that persons seated closer to the index 
case are at greater risk of infection.29 Only 5Œ10% of persons infected with 
the bacteria Mycobacterium tuberculosis 
will go on to develop active, infectious 
disease and the risk of progression is 
greatest within the first two years after 
infection.30 An analysis of the epidemiology and outcomes of HHS/CDC-led flight-related 
tuberculosis contact investigations 
conducted in the United States from 
January 2007 to June 2008 examined 
131 case-travelers and 4,550 passenger- 
contacts.31Among 3,375 (74%) passenger-contacts whose information 
was provided to health departments, 
HHS/CDC received results for 861 
(26%). HHS/CDC found that 103/861 
(12%) had a previous history of a 
positive TB screening test result or 
treatment for latent tuberculosis or 
active disease and were not re-tested. Of 
the remaining 758 passenger contacts, 
182 (24%) tested positive. The majority 
of travelers with data about TB risk 
factors (other than exposure to cases 
during air travel) had at least one risk 
factor (130/142 or 92%). Risk factors 
included having been born or lived in 
a country with high TB prevalence 
(prevalence >100 per 100,000 
population). Although passenger- 
contacts with risk factors were more 
likely to have pre-existing latent 
tuberculosis infection, the authors could 
not exclude the possibility that infection 
was acquired during the flights when 
the travelers were exposed. 
Furthermore, because outcomes data 
were reported for only 26% of passenger 
contacts forwarded to U.S. health 
departments (19% of all passenger 
contacts) the precise determination of 
in-flight transmission risk of M. 
tuberculosis was not feasible.32 The results from this investigation were used in a cost-effectiveness study 
to estimate the return on investment for 
tuberculosis CIs. The authors examined 
a range of latent tuberculosis prevalence 
rates among exposed travelers that 
varied between 19% and 24% for two 
different HHS/CDC CI protocols for 
flight-related TB investigations. The 
return on investment was calculated 
based on the likelihood that travelers 
with latent tuberculosis infection would 
initiate and complete a treatment 
regimen to clear the infection, the 
average cost of tuberculosis treatment, a 
tuberculosis case fatality rate of 5% and 
a conservative value of statistical life 
estimate of $4.2 million (in 2009 USD) 
to account for the value of mortality risk 
reduction from avoided tuberculosis 
disease. The return on investment 
depended on the probability assumed 
for persons with latent TB infection to 
develop active disease (5Œ10%) and 
variation in the costs to health 
departments to locate exposed travelers 
($28 to $164). Using the expected latent 
tuberculosis prevalence rate of 19% in 
travelers identified for contact 
investigations on flights and a health 
department cost per contact of $164, the 
return on investment was estimated to VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00055Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6944 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
33Coleman M, Marienau K, Marano N, Marks S, Cetron M, Dis TMI. Economics of United States Tuberculosis Airline Contact Investigation Policies. 
Travel Medicine and Infectious Disease. 
2014;12:63Œ71. 34Marienau KJ, Burgess GW, Cramer E, et al. Tuberculosis investigations associated with air travel: US Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, January 2007ŒJune 2008. Travel Med 
Infect Dis 2010;8:104e12. 35Mangili A, Gendreau MA. Transmission of infectious diseases during commercial air travel. Lancet. 2005;365:989Œ96. 36Anderson RM. The concept of herd immunity and the design of community-based immunization 
programmes. Vaccine. 1992;10(13):928Œ35. 37Chapter 14. Meningococcal Disease, The Pink Book, CDC http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/pubs/ 
pinkbook/mening.html Accessed 5/2/2016. 38Marienau KJ, Burgess GW, Cramer E, et al. Tuberculosis investigations associated with air travel: US Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, January 2007ŒJune 2008. Travel Med 
Infect Dis 2010;8:104e12. 39Coleman M, Marienau K, Marano N, Marks S, Cetron M, Dis TMI. Economics of United States Tuberculosis Airline Contact Investigation Policies. 
Travel Medicine and Infectious Disease. 
2014;12:63Œ71. vary between $1.01 and $3.20. The return on investment formula was 
calculated based on (Expected 
benefits¥Expected costs)/Expected 
costs. Thus, for each $1 in Federal and 
State resources spent on contact 
investigations and offering treatment to 
persons infected with latent 
tuberculosis infections would result in 
benefits in excess of costs equal to $1.01 
to $3.203334
on average. At the upper bound latent tuberculosis prevalence 
estimate (24%), the return on 
investment was estimated to vary 
between $1.35 and $3.92. There is also empirical data for SARS infections occurring on an aircraft. A 
study reported that 37 infections 
resulted from 40 flights with infectious 
passengers on board. Of the 40 flights, 
four have documented aircraft sizes. 
They average 127 passengers per 
plane.35Therefore the on board transmission rate could be estimated to be 0.73% among all travelers. In 
comparison, there is no evidence of 
transmission of MERS Coronavirus or viral hemorrhagic fevers during travel on aircraft or vessels. However, there 
have not been enough observations to 
determine that there is no risk. For the remainder of the diseases, empirical data does not exist. Like 
measles, immunizations are 
recommended to prevent pertussis, 
rubella, and meningococcal disease. 
Since meningococcal conjugate vaccine 
was more recently added to the United 
States vaccination schedule, it is likely 
that background immunity is much 
lower relative to measles, rubella or 
pertussis. In the absence of data for some diseases, the infection rate of measles is used to estimate the infection rates by 
using the ratio of basic reproduction 
numbers (R0). The basic reproduction number is a measure of disease 
infectiousness. Specifically, it is an 
estimate of new infections in a 
completely susceptible population. For 
example, rubella has an R0of 9 to 10 while measles has an R0of 15 to 17.36 The infection rate of measles is multiplied (0.0034 to 0.0095) by the ratio of the average basic reproductive 
numbers (9.5/16) to arrive at a 
transmission rate (0.002 to 0.006) for 
rubella on airplanes. This rate is 
approximately 60% of the rate for 
measles. The estimated transmission 
rates for some diseases are reported in 
Table 12. The exceptions are for 
meningococcal disease and tuberculosis. 
For meningococcal disease, the risk of 
transmission in household contacts 
0.002 to 0.00437is used in the absence of other data and taking account that CIs 
are only performed for travelers sitting 
adjacent to the index case or in the 
event of other known exposures. For 
tuberculosis, the probability that 
exposed travelers have latent 
tuberculosis38(19%Œ24%) is used, although infection may have occurred prior to air travel. For the purposes of 
evaluating the economic impact of 
tuberculosis investigations, it does not 
matter if travelers were infected during 
travel or before. TABLE12ŠESTIMATEDTRANSMISSIONRATEON
PLANEFOR
EXPOSEDTRAVELERS Disease R0 Estimated transmission rate on aircraft to exposed passengers Lower bound Upper bound 
Diphtheria (quarantinable)........................................................................................................11 to 14............0.0026 0.0074 
Measles (non-quarantinable)....................................................................................................15 to 17............0.0034 0.0095 
Meningococcal Disease (non-quarantinable)...........................................................................NA.........
............<2/1000 <4/1000 
Pertussis (non-quarantinable)...................................................................................................4 to 5................0.001
0.003Rubella (non-quarantinable).....................................................................................................9 to 10..............0.002
0.006TB (quarantinable).............................................................................................................
.......NA....................0.190.24
Estimated Number of Cases in Traveler 
Contacts The number of potential contacts for each disease can be multiplied by the 
estimated transmission rate by disease 
in Table 12 to generate a rough estimate 
of the annual number of cases among 
traveler contacts. These numbers of 
contacts for each disease are 
summarized in Tables 6 and 7 for 
interstate and international CIs respectively. Contact investigations on vessels are excluded for this analysis. 
Based on this analysis, tuberculosis (19 
to 48) and measles cases (3.6 to 10.1) are 
the most likely diseases that will be 
diagnosed among contacts exposed 
during travel (Table 13). Tuberculosis 
contact investigations only occur for 
international flights with the very rare 
exception of a domestic flight with a 
duration greater than 8 hours. The numbers of contacts and outcomes are much more uncertain for other diseases. The number of tuberculosis cases are 
adjusted from the number of contacts 
with tuberculosis by assuming that only 
5% (lower bound) to 10% (upper 
bound) of infected contacts will go on 
to develop clinical disease.39 For viral hemorrhagic fevers and MERS, there is no evidence of 
transmission, but there have not been 
very many observations. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00056Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6945 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
40http://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes_nat.htm. TABLE13ŠANNUALESTIMATEDNUMBEROF
CASESAMONGINTERNATIONALPASSENGERCONTACTSBY
DISEASE Passengers per flight Number of contacts Expected incidence among contacts (lower bound) Expected incidence among contacts (upper bound) Expected number of new cases (lower bound) Expected number of new cases (upper bound) MERS Coronavirus (quarantinable).........................................101 
Insufficient data Measles (non-quarantinable)...................................................1,069 0.0034 0.0095 
3.6 10.1 Meningococcal Disease (non-quarantinable)..........................
1.7 0.00200 0.00400 0.0033 0.0067 
Pertussis (non-quarantinable)..................................................16.8 0.001 0.003 
0.02 0.04 Rubella (non-quarantinable)....................................................117 0.002 0.006 
0.2 0.7 TBa(quarantinable).................................................................1,995 
b0.19 b0.24 c18.9 c47.90 Viral Hemorrhagic Fever (quarantinable)................................62.0 
Insufficient data Total..................................................................................3,362 ..................................
..............22.8 58.7 aFor tuberculosis, travelers contacts are typically found to test positive for infection, but do not have active disease. bThese probabilities indicate the likelihood that a contact will test positive for infection. cThe expected numbers of cases adjust for the finding that only 5Œ10% of individuals that test positive for infection will go on to develop clin-
ical disease. These estimates of cases may be a lower bound, because potential cases resulting from flights in which contact 
investigations were not performed are 
not included. Especially for tuberculosis 
cases, many international travelers may 
return to their home countries before 
seeking treatment and such cases may 
not lead to contact investigations if HHS/CDC is not informed. Marginal Costs of Final Rule Data Collection Since the final rule does not change the timeframe or amount of data requested from airlines or vessel 
operators, the most likely economic 
impact is a small change in the amount 
of effort for airlines to provide more 
complete and timely information. To the 
extent that airlines would respond more 
quickly or with additional data, it 
would require some airline information 
technology staff to expedite requests or 
to search in more depth for available 
data. HHS/CDC estimates this may 
require one hour of staff time per 
request. HHS/CDC has no way to predict 
how much more complete, timely, or 
accurate contact from airlines would 
become as a result of this final rule. On average, HHS/CDC acted upon 77 
requests per year to airlines for 
international traveler contact data 
between 2010 and 2015 (Table 6). In 
addition, HHS/CDC made 22.5 requests 
per year for interstate traveler data 
(Table 7) over the same period. There 
were 45 contact investigations per year 
among travelers on vessels (Table 8); 
however, most of these were undertaken 
before travelers disembarked vessels in 
which case contact data could be 
collected directly from exposed 
travelers as part of the investigation. 
The number of maritime contact 
investigations requiring manifest 
requests after disembarkation is 
estimated to be less than 10 per year. Overall, including international air and maritime activities, the estimated 
number of contact data requests after 
disembarkation was estimated at 100 to 
account for the fact that HHS/CDC 
sometimes requests traveler contact data 
for infectious disease events prior to 
confirmed diagnoses. On occasion, it 
turns out that travelers are not infected 
with diseases that require a public 
health response. This rounding up 
should also account for a year in which 
there is a significant increase in the number of contact investigations among 
exposed air or maritime travelers. HHS/ 
CDC notes the manifest order process 
for interstate flights is not codified in 
the final rule. The data is provided here 
for completeness. The average wages for computer and information systems managers 
(occupation code 11Œ3021) reported in 
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, May 2015 
Occupational Employment Statistics40 were $63.27 per hour. On average, 
under the baseline, HHS/CDC assumes 
that it would require 6 hours of work by 
airlines to search databases and provide 
data. For the final rule, HHS/CDC 
assumes that a management-level 
computer specialist will spend 
additional time to provide the best 
possible contact data for potentially 
exposed travelers. The base salary is 
multiplied by an overhead multiplier of 
100% to account for non-wage benefits 
and other overhead costs for supporting 
each employee (Table 14). The lower 
bound estimate ($0) is no change from 
current practice, while the upper bound 
estimate assumes 2 hours of time 
instead of one ($25,308). These costs are 
applied to an estimated 100 manifest 
requests per year. TABLE14ŠESTIMATEOF
COSTSFOR
AIRLINESAND
VESSELOPERATORSTOIMPROVECOMPLIANCEWITHHHS/CDC REQUESTSFOR
TRAVELERCONTACTDATA, 2015 USD Average number of manifest requests per year Increased effort to provide more complete or timelier passenger contact data (hrs.) Average hourly wage rate of IT staff (2015 USD) Overhead multiplier (%) Total cost Baseline...........................................................................
100 6 $63.27 100 $75,924 
Best estimate...................................................................
100 1 63.27 100 12,654 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00057Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6946 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
41Personal communication between Dr. Brian Maskery and DOT/FAA. 42http://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes_nat.htm. TABLE14ŠESTIMATEOF
COSTSFOR
AIRLINESAND
VESSELOPERATORSTOIMPROVECOMPLIANCEWITHHHS/CDC REQUESTSFOR
TRAVELERCONTACTDATA, 2015 USDŠContinued Average number of manifest requests per year Increased effort to provide more complete or timelier passenger contact data (hrs.) Average hourly wage rate of IT staff (2015 USD) Overhead multiplier (%) Total cost Lower bound....................................................................
100 0 63.27 100 0 Upper bound....................................................................
100 2 63.27 100 25,308 
Illness Reporting Costs When reports are received, public health officers at Quarantine Stations perform case assessments, may request 
follow-up information, and may consult 
with HHS/CDC medical officers to 
determine if additional action such as a 
contact investigation, onboard response, 
or notification to State and local health 
departments is warranted. Under one 
assumed upper bound scenario, the 
change in the definition of ‚‚ill person™™ 
included in the final rule could result in 
a 100% increase in the number of info- 
only reports from airlines and a 25% 
increase from vessels. On average, there 
are 129 info-only reports for aircraft and 
vessels each year and these increases would correspond to an annual increase 
of 119 info-only reports on aircraft and 
3 info-only reports on vessels (Table 15). 
If the average time for each report is 
estimated to be 2 minutes for aircraft 
pilots in command or masters of vessels 
to make the report, 10 minutes for a 
traveler to discuss the illness with public health officer, and 60 minutes for HHS/CDC to document the info-only 
report, the estimated cost of the 
additional reports can be estimated 
based on the opportunity cost of time 
for each type of personnel. In addition 
to the time required for aircraft pilots in 
command and masters of vessels to 
make reports, the personnel in the 
Department of Transportation™s Federal 
Aviation Administration (DOT/FAA) 
may incur additional costs to relay 
reports of suspected cases of 
communicable disease received by air 
traffic control to CDC through the 
Domestic Events Network. The amount 
of DOT/FAA staff time is estimated at 26 minutes for a government employee 
at GS-level 15, step 6 based in 
Washington, DC. In reality, there would 
be three DOT/FAA employees involved 
including 1 GSŒ15/16 level employee at 
air traffic control (10 minutes), 1 GSŒ15 
level employee at the Domestic Events 
Network (10 minutes), and 1 GSŒ14 
level employee at DOT/FAA™s Washington Operations Center Complex 
(6 minutes).41 For aircraft pilots in command or masters of vessels (occupation codes 
53Œ2011 and 53Œ5021) and travelers 
(average across all occupations code 00Œ 
0000), their opportunity cost is 
estimated from Bureau of Labor 
Statistics, May 2015 Occupational 
Employment Statistics42based on the average salary of aircraft pilots or 
copilots ($57.35 per hour), traveler 
($23.23 per hour) or vessel captain, 
mate, or pilot ($39.95 per hour). For 
HHS/CDC employees, the average wage 
rate is based on the Federal 
government™s general salary scale for a 
GSŒ12, step 5 employee based in 
Atlanta, GA). Base salaries are 
multiplied by an overhead multiplier of 
100% to account for non-wage benefits 
and other overhead costs for supporting 
each employee. Travelers do not have 
overhead costs. The annual quantified 
costs of 122 additional info-only reports 
would be $17,471. TABLE15ŠCHANGESIN
NUMBERSOF
INFO-ONLYREPORTSAND
ASSOCIATEDCOSTSFORTHE
FINALRULEUPPER BOUND, 2015 USD Employee type Change in number of info-only reports Amount of time required per report (min) Estimated wage rate (2015 USD per hr.) Overhead multiplier (%) Estimated cost Aircraft: Aircraft Pilots or Copilots..............................................
119 2 $57.35 
100 $455 CDC employee.............................................................
119 60 39.83 
100 9,480 
DOT/FAA employees....................................................
119 26 70.57 
100 7,278 
Traveler.........................................................................
119 10 23.23 0 461 
Air total......................................................................................................................
............................................17,213 
Vessels: Air or maritime conveyance officer.............................................................................................
..........................................................
Captains, Mates, and Pilots of Water Vessels.............
3 2 39.95 
100 8 CDC employee.............................................................
3 60 439.83 
100 239 Traveler.........................................................................
3 10 23.23 0 12 
Maritime total.................................................................................................................
........................................259 
Total costs, aircraft and vessels..............................................................................................
.....................................17,471 
Notes: Assumes 100% increase in info-only reports from airlines and 25% from vessel operators. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00058Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6947 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
43http://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes_nat.htm. Besides the possible change in costs of info-only reports, the other potential change would be an increase in the 
number of reports that require HHS/ 
CDC follow-up. Under the most likely 
scenario, there will not be a change in 
these reports since the new definition 
better corresponds to HHS/CDC 
guidance and to reporting guidelines 
published by ICAO in Note 1 to 
paragraph 8.15 of Annex 9 to the 
Convention on International Civil 
Aviation. However, there may be an 
increase in the number of reports 
requiring a response. Under this 
scenario, there may be an increase in 
costs for air or masters of vessels to 
report illnesses. The upper bound increase in reports requiring response is 
assumed to be 50% of the average 
annual illness reports from airlines and 
a 10% increase from vessels (refer to 
Tables 10 and 11 for baseline number of reports): 29 reports per year on aircraft and 21 reports per year on vessels. HHS/ 
CDC assumes that the time required to 
submit illness reports and for DOT/FAA 
staff to relay reports requiring responses 
is the same as for info-only reports (2 
minutes for pilots in command and 
masters of vessels and 26 minutes for 
DOT/FAA to relay reports, Table 16). 
Further, HHS/CDC assumes that travelers could spend up to 60 minutes 
talking to HHS/CDC and/or State and 
local public health officers for reports 
requiring response. The upper bound 
estimate of total costs associated with 
the increase in the number of illness 
reports requiring response is estimated 
to be $3,102. There would likely be no change or a decrease in HHS/CDC costs because 
earlier reporting would lead to a more 
efficient HHS/CDC response relative to 
an alternative in which the illness was not reported during travel, but instead was later reported by a public health 
department to HHS/CDC. In addition, 
the public health response to the illness 
would likely be more efficient because 
exposed travelers could be contacted 
earlier. In rare situations, such travelers 
may potentially be informed of their 
potential exposure at the gate after 
disembarking the aircraft or vessel. Such 
actions should not result in significant 
delays by holding travelers on board. HHS/CDC did not include any training costs because the change in the ‚‚ill person™™ definition in this final rule 
is consistent with the internationally 
recognized and accepted illness 
reporting guidelines published by ICAO 
for international travelers and 
represents a reduced burden compared 
to the previous illness reporting 
regulations for interstate travelers. TABLE16ŠCHANGESIN
ANNUALNUMBERSOF
REPORTSREQUIRINGRESPONSEAND
ASSOCIATEDCOSTSFORTHE
FINAL RULEUPPERBOUND, 2015 USD Employee type Change in number of reports Amount of time required per report (min) Estimated wage rate (2015 USD per hr.) Overhead multiplier (%) Estimated cost (2015 USD) Aircraft: Aircraft Pilots or Copilots..............................................
29 2 $57.35 
100 $111 CDC employee.............................................................
29 0 39.83 
100 0 DOT/FAA employee......................................................
29 26 70.57 
100 1,774 
Traveler.........................................................................
29 60 23.23 0 674 
Total.......................................................................................................................................................................
2,558 Vessels: Captains, Mates, and Pilots of Water Vessels.............
21 2 39.95 
100 56 CDC employee.............................................................
21 0 39.83 
100 0 Traveler.........................................................................
21 60 23.23 0 488 
Total.......................................................................................................................................................................
544 Total..............................................................................................................................................................................
3,102 Notes:Assume 50% increase in air illness and a 10% increase in maritime illness reports requiring response (international and interstate). There may also be a one-time cost associated with updating training to reflect the new regulatory text. As noted 
above, HHS/CDC reiterates that the 
change to regulatory text is a 
codification of HHS/CDC guidance and 
better aligns with international guidance 
(Note 1 to paragraph 8.15 of Annex 9 to 
the Convention on International Civil 
Aviation). Further for interstate travel, 
these changes result in relaxed illness 
reporting compared to status quo 
regulatory text. Thus any airlines using 
either ICAO or HHS/CDC guidance to 
support training efforts for illness 
reporting should not need to change 
training materials. At most, it may be 
necessary to clarify that some symptoms 
that were previously requested are now 
required. However, for some airlines or vessel operators, it may be necessary to 
revise training materials. The cost of training was estimated based on the number of pilots and flight 
attendants and their average wage rates 
as reported in the Bureau of Labor 
Statistics, May 2015 Occupational 
Employment Statistics.43HHS/CDC assumes that the opportunity cost of 
employee time spent in training would 
be the primary cost as opposed to the 
cost of developing training materials. As 
an upper bound, HHS/CDC assumed the 
cost of training could be estimated 
based on assuming that all employees 
would require 10 minutes of training to 
summarize the changes. As noted above, 
since this change aligns regulatory text with existing HHS/CDC and ICAO guidance documents, this change may not result in a new training requirement 
for all airlines since some presumably 
already use HHS/CDC guidance in 
training. This 10 minute estimate does 
not necessarily mean all 230,000 pilots 
and flight attendants each require 10 
minutes of training. For example, 50% 
of each could require 20 minutes of 
training, while the other 50% may 
already conduct training in accordance 
with either CDC or ICAO guidance. The 
total cost of the one-time change in 
training is about $3.1 million. If this 
cost is annualized over 10 years, the 
average annual cost depends on the 
discount rate assumed and varies from 
$313,000 per year (7% discount rate) to 
$416,000 (0% discount rate). These VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00059Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6948 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
results are summarized in Table 17. These costs (3% discount rate) are 
added to the upper bound cost estimate for illness reporting. The lower bound and best estimates are $0 since the changes to the definition better align 
with existing CDC and ICAO guidance. TABLE17ŠESTIMATEDCOSTSFOR
ONE-TIMETRAININGABOUTCHANGESIN
ILLNESSREPORTINGFOR
AIRLINES, 2015 USD Employee type Number of employees Amount of time required for training per employee (minutes) Estimated wage rate (2015 USD per hr.) Overhead multiplier (%) Estimated cost or benefit (2015 USD) Aircraft Pilots or Copilots.....................................................121,110 
10 57.35 
100 2,315,220 
Flight attendants..................................................................108,510 
10 22.46 
100 812,465 
Total..............................................................................................................................................................................3,127,685 
Annualized cost over 10-year time horizon 3% discount rate...$355,981 0% discount rate...$416,179 7% discount rate...$312,768 
The monetized annual costs resulting from the change in the definition of ‚‚ill person™™ are summarized in Table 18. The benefits in regard to reductions in communicable disease transmission are 
summarized in a subsequent section. TABLE18ŠBESTESTIMATE, LOWERBOUNDAND
UPPERBOUNDOFTHE
CHANGESIN
ANNUALMONETIZEDBENEFITSAND
 COSTSASA
RESULTOFTHE
CHANGETOTHE
REPORTABLEILLNESSDEFINITION, 2015 USD Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound Costs Final Rule: Aircraft.......................................................................................................................
...........$0 $0 $375,751 
Vessels........................................................................................................................
.........0 0 802 
Total..........................................................................................................................
.....0 0 376,554 
The total costs of the final rule are summarized in Table 19 and include the costs of the change to the definition of 
an ‚‚ill person™™ and the codification of the requirement for airlines to provide 
passenger contact data for the final rule. TABLE19ŠTOTALCOSTSAND
BENEFITSRESULTINGFROMCODIFICATIONOF
TRAVELERDATACOLLECTION(71.4 AND 71.5) ANDCHANGETO
DEFINITIONOF
‚‚ILLPERSON™™ (70.1 AND71.1) Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound Costs Final Rule: 71.4 and 71.5 Passenger data collection.............................................................................$12,654 
$0 $25,308 70.1 and 71.1 Change in definition of an ‚‚ill person™™..........................................................
0 0 376,554 
Total costs....................................................................................................................
.12,654 0 401,862 
Benefits From Streamlining the CI 
Process for Routinely Imported Diseases This section reports the benefits that HHS/CDC anticipates from 
implementation of the final rule in 
avoiding the costs incurred annually for 
CIs of infectious diseases. The model for 
estimating the benefits of CIs is: Current 
number of CIs × (reduction in HHS/CDC and health department staff time/ 
resources per contact) × value of staff time. HHS/CDC obtained the total number of contacts traced (2,715 per year, Table 6) for all diseases reported on international flights. International flight 
data were extracted for this analysis 
because the codification of the 
requirements to provide timelier and 
more complete contact data is limited to 
international arrivals. In comparison, 
HHS/CDC requests contact information 
for approximately 664 contacts per year 
on interstate flights (Table 7). HHS/CDC 
also supports contact investigations affecting an average of 762 contacts per 
year for illnesses on board vessels 
(Table 8); however, many of these 
investigations occur before travelers disembark vessels. By limiting the analysis to contacts on international 
flights, HHS/CDC conservatively estimates the potential benefits 
associated with this final rule. HHS/ 
CDC multiplied the average annual 
number of contacts on international 
flights by the cost-per-contact for HHS/ 
CDC and PHDs (Table 11) to estimate 
the costs of CIs under the current 
baseline. To estimate the benefits (Tables 20 and 21), HHS/CDC assumed a percent 
reduction in staff time for CIs at HHS/ 
CDC (0Œ3%) and PHD levels (0Œ2%) VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00060Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6949 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
based on internal conversations with personnel directly involved in the CI 
process. The reduction in staff time that 
would result from implementation of 
this final rule would arise from the 
ability of HHS/CDC to have a better 
starting point with which to provide 
traveler contact data to State and local 
health departments as a result of the 
receipt of more complete and timely 
traveler contact data from airlines. The 
impact of codification is expected to be 
limited and would depend on instances 
in which airlines have more data than 
what is currently provided to DHS. 
Better data would improve HHS/CDC™s 
ability to transmit information to 
destination States more quickly and for 
States to contact exposed travelers 
earlier. This would allow States to start 
their investigations more quickly, contact more travelers faster to conduct 
public health assessments and 
potentially offer preventive medications or vaccines in a more timely fashion or to recommend self-monitoring to 
mitigate onward transmission. In 
addition, it would be less likely that 
HHS/CDC would send incorrect contact 
data to States. With all of the preceding 
factors in mind, HHS/CDC estimated 
that the final rule would reduce labor 
time by between 0% to 3% at HHS/CDC, 
and 0% to 2% at PHDs. The higher 
percentage of avoided costs at HHS/CDC 
reflect reduced efforts by HHS/CDC to 
search for accurate contact data for 
travelers due to untimely or inaccurate 
data. The lower percentage of avoided 
costs at PHDs reflects a more diffuse 
(e.g., multiple local PHDs in a State) infrastructure and the more labor- 
intensive tasks of following up on 
individuals. These estimates are small 
because the change is a clarification and codification of a current practice 
authorized under broad statutory and 
regulatory authority rather than a new regulatory requirement. In addition, the change to the definition of ‚‚ill person™™ 
may lead to the earlier diagnoses of 
some travelers with communicable 
disease, which may lead to earlier and 
more efficient public health responses. HHS/CDC annual costs to engage in international air, interstate air, and maritime CIs are about $745,000 or 
roughly the equivalent of 3.8 HHS/CDC 
full-time employees (FTEs) at the wage 
level of GSŒ13, step 4 plus benefits and 
overhead (Table 21). The final rule 
should have the greatest effect on the 
international air CIs. The annual 
reduction in contact tracing costs from 
implementing the final rule (Table 22) 
for HHS/CDC ranged from $0 to $14,661 
based on a 0Œ3% reduction in effort on 
international CIs. For PHDs, the 
reduction in costs ranged from $0 at the 
lower bound to $9,774 at the upper 
bound (Table 22). TABLE20ŠANNUALLYFOR
HHS/CDC ANDPHD: BASELINECOSTS Annual num-ber contacts HHS/CDC PHD costs Total costs 
HHS/CDC and PHD Baseline Costs (Current Practice) International air contacts.................................................................................
2,715 $488,700 $488,
700 $977,400 Interstate air contacts......................................................................................
664 119,520 119,52
0 239,040 Maritime contacts.............................................................................................
762 137,160 137,1
60 274,320 Total baseline costs..................................................................................
4,141 745,380 745,380 1,4
90,760 Viral hemorrhagic fever, MERS, and SARS contacts.....................................
163 29,340 29,340 58,680 
TABLE21ŠANNUALFORHHS/CDC ANDPHDS: BASELINECOSTS, FINALRULECOSTS, BENEFITSWITHTHE
FINALRULE (NUMBERCONTACTSANNUALIZEDFROMJANUARY2010 TODECEMBER2015), 2015 USD HHS/CDC and PHD Baseline Costs (Current Practice) Annual number contacts HHS/CDC PHD International contacts.......................................................................
2,715 $488,700 
$488,700 HHS/CDC and PHD Costs With the Final Rule Estimated Costs for HHS/CDC After Efficiency Improvement with Final Rule Estimated Costs for PHDs After Effi-ciency Improvement with Final 
Rule 0%, Lower bound 3%, Upper bound 0%, Lower bound 2%, Upper bound International contacts costs assuming reduction in time (2,715)....$488,700 $474,039 $488,700 $478,926 
Benefits From Implementing the Final Rule HHS/CDC 0% and 3% Reduction in effort PHD (0% and 2% Reduction in effort) Benefits (Reduced costs)................................................................
$0 $14,661 
$0 $9,774 The best estimate of benefits are the midpoint of the lower bound and upper bound estimates for both HHS/CDC and PHDs ($12,218). The lower bound ($0) and upper bound estimates ($24,435) for both entities are also reported in Table 
22. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00061Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6950 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
44Nelson K, Marienau K, Schembri C, Redd S. Measles transmission during air travel, United States. Travel Medicine and Infectious Disease 
(2013) 11, 81e89. 2013;11:81Œ9. 45P Kutty, J Rota, W Bellini, SB Redd, A Barskey, G Wallace. (2014) Manual for the Surveillance of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases: Chapter 7 Measles. 
http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/pubs/surv-manual/ chpt07-measles.html Accessed 5/8/2016. 46CDC (2015) Epidemiology and Prevention of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases: Measles. http:// www.cdc.gov/vaccines/pubs/pinkbook/meas.html 
Accessed 5/8/2016. TABLE22ŠBESTESTIMATE, LOWERBOUNDAND
UPPERBOUNDOF
BENEFITSFROMINCREASEDEFFICIENCIESFOR
HHS/ CDC ANDPHDSTOCONDUCTCONTACTINVESTIGATIONSWITHPROVISIONOF
BETTERDATAFROMAIRLINES(FINAL RULE), 2015 USD HHS/CDC benefits PHD benefits Total 
Best estimate..................................................................................................................
.............$7,331 $4,887 $12,218 
Lower bound....................................................................................................................
............0 0 0 
Upper bound....................................................................................................................
............14,661 9,774 24,435 
The total annual monetized benefits by stakeholder from the potential reduced effort for contact investigations are summarized in Table 23. TABLE23ŠBESTESTIMATE, LOWERBOUNDAND
UPPERBOUNDOF
BENEFITSFROMINCREASEDEFFICIENCIESFOR
HHS/ CDC ANDPHDSTO
CONDUCTCONTACTINVESTIGATIONSWITHPROVISIONOF
BETTERDATAFROMAIRLINES, 2015 USD HHS/CDC benefits, USD PHD benefits, USD Airlines, USD Total 
Best estimate...................................................................................................$7,331 $4,887 
$0 $12,218 Lower bound....................................................................................................
0 0 0 0 Upper bound....................................................................................................14,661 9,774 
0 2
4,435 Marginal Impact of Final RuleŠMeasles Health Outcome Benefits On average, HHS/CDC identified 564 travelers exposed to measles cases on 
international flights during 2010Œ2015 
(Table 6). The final rule may affect the 
cost for health departments to 
implement public health measures in 
two ways: (1) Health departments may 
contact exposed travelers more quickly 
and (2) health departments may be able 
to contact a higher percentage of 
exposed travelers. For the first set of 
travelers that are contacted earlier with 
the final rule than under the status quo, 
the cost to both the contacted travelers 
and to health departments should be 
less than under the status quo. For 
measles contacts, earlier follow-up with 
public health departments should lead 
to more travelers being offered 
voluntary measles vaccines within 72 
hours. This would potentially reduce 
the cost of following up with exposed travelers at which time health 
departments could offer to administer 
immune globulin or health departments 
may monitor travelers that have been 
located after the 72-hour window in which measles vaccination would 
reduce their risk of developing 
symptomatic measles. At present, very 
few travelers receive post-exposure 
prophylaxis, 11/248 or 4.4%.44In addition, health departments have 
implemented quarantine (usually 
voluntary) for unvaccinated, high risk 
measles exposures.45HHS/CDC notes that measles is not a quarantinable 
communicable disease under Federal 
regulations, but may be quarantinable 
under a State™s authorities. HHS/CDC 
also notes that measles vaccine is 
recommended for all persons lacking 
immunity. Thus, the costs of 
vaccination for exposed travelers as part 
of the contact investigation may have 
been incurred at a later date if travelers™ 
health care providers recommended 
measles vaccination at a more routine 
health care visit in the future.46 However, to be conservative, HHS/CDC 
includes the full additional cost to 
administer such vaccines to persons 
contacted. Among the contacts, HHS/CDC estimates that approximately 25% (141 
contacts per year) cannot be located by public health departments (Table 24), either because HHS/CDC cannot assign 
the contacts to health departments or 
because the information provided by 
HHS/CDC is not sufficient to enable 
health departments to locate contacts 
after assignment from HHS/CDC. 
Among these contacts, HHS/CDC 
assumes that 10% of all contacts (56) are 
not located because HHS/CDC cannot 
assign contacts to State health 
departments due to insufficient data. 
For these contacts, health departments 
would not incur any contact tracing 
costs because such contacts would not 
be assigned. HHS/CDC assumes a 15% 
improvement from baseline as a result 
of this final rule (Table 24). This would 
result in 8.5 additional contacts per year 
assigned to health departments for 
contact tracing. As shown in Table 11, 
HHS/CDC estimates that health 
departments incur an estimated cost of 
$180 per contact. The marginal cost 
incurred from this final rule for 
additional measles contacts assigned to 
health departments would be $180 × 8.5 = $1,530 per year (Table 25). TABLE24ŠESTIMATEDMARGINALIMPROVEMENTINTHE
NUMBERSOF
MEASLESCONTACTSWHOCOULDBETREATED WITHFINALRULE Description n Reference Average contacts per year for measles, (a).....................................................................................
...564 Table 6. 
Estimated number of contacts for which HHS/CDC cannot assign to a health department, (b) = 10% × (a).56 Nelson et al. 2013.
47 VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00062Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6951 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
48http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/programs/vfc/ awardees/vaccine-management/price-list/ archive.html Accessed 5/2/2016. 49InGauge Healthcare Solutions. 2015 Physicians™ Fee & Coding Guide. Atlanta GA2013. 50Ortega-Sanchez IR, Vijayaraghavan M, Barskey AE, Wallace GS. The economic burden of sixteen measles outbreaks on United States public health 
departments in 2011. Vaccine. 2012;32(11). TABLE24ŠESTIMATEDMARGINALIMPROVEMENTINTHE
NUMBERSOF
MEASLESCONTACTSWHOCOULDBETREATED WITHFINALRULEŠContinued Description n Reference Estimated improvement in HHS/CDC™s ability to assign contacts to health department (c) = 15% × (b).8 .5 Assumption. Numbers of people who are not currently contacted due to lack of contact information, (d) = (a) × 25%.141 Nelson et al. 2013. 
Expected numbers of people who could be contacted with final rule, (e) = (d) × 15%.....................21 Assumption. 
Among those contacted, 70% would have evidence of measles immunity (f) = (e) × 70%...............15 Nelson et al. 2013 (Table 2). 
Among those contacted, 30% may be susceptible to measles (g) = (e) × 30%................................6 Nelson et al. 2013 (Table 2). 
47Nelson, K., Marienau, K.J., Schembri, C. and Redd, S. (2013). ‚‚Measles transmission during air travel, United States.™™ Travel Medicine and 
Infectious Disease (2013) 11, 81e89 11: 81Œ89. TABLE25ŠESTIMATEDMARGINALCOSTSFOR
HEALTHDEPARTMENTSTOCONTACTEXPOSEDTRAVELERSAND
OFFER MEASLESPOST-EXPOSUREPROPHYLAXIS(VACCINATION), 2015 USD Number of additional names sent to health department, (c)......................................................................
........................................8.5 
Additional cost per contact to health department to search for and examine contacts (USD per contact) (h)......................
...........$180 
Additional cost to health department to search for contacts, total (USD), (i) = (c) × (h)....................................................................$1,530 
MMR vaccine price per dose (USD) (j)...........................................................................................
....................................................$39 
Vaccine administration (k).....................................................................................................
..............................................................$31 
Estimated cost prophylactic measles vaccine per person (USD), (l) = (j) + (k)..................................................
...............................$70 
Number of individuals who may receive measles vaccine, (g).....................................................................
......................................6 
Cost of measles vaccination, total (USD) (m) = (g) × (l)....................................................................................................................$420 
Total additional annual cost to follow up with more contacts (USD), (i) + (m)..................................................
.................................$1,950 
In addition, HHS/CDC assumes that the final rule could improve health departments™ abilities to contact 15% of 
those who could not be currently 
contacted because of insufficient contact 
information (21 contacts per year). HHS/ 
CDC does not have any data to measure 
the magnitude of improvement and 
applies a range of 10% to 20% to 
calculate lower and upper bounds. If 
airlines and vessel operators do not 
have any additional data besides what is 
already transmitted to DHS, there will be very little improvement. Among the 21 additional exposed travelers that 
would be contacted, 70% of them (15 
per year) are expected to have measles 
immunity because they were born 
before 1957, had history of measles, or 
received one or more doses of measles vaccine. The remaining 6 travelers per 
year without proven measles immunity 
would incur additional costs if they are 
vaccinated (vaccine costs + vaccine 
administration, Table 25). To be conservative, HHS/CDC assumes that all 6 exposed travelers would be adults and would be vaccinated with the measles-mumps- 
rubella (MMR) vaccine. The vaccine 
price for adults is estimated from the 
Vaccines for Children vaccine price 
archives (July 2014 and July 2015)48 based on the public sector price for the 
vaccine. Vaccine administration costs 
are estimated from Healthcare 
Solutions™ 2015 Physicians™ Fee & 
Coding Guide (CPT 90471).49Total costs resulting from the final rule are 
summarized in Table 26. TABLE26ŠMARGINALIMPACTOF
FINALRULETOIMPROVECONTACTINVESTIGATIONS Marginal cost for measles in-vestigations Additional names provided to health departments Addition contacts reached by health depart-ments Number of travelers provided post-exposure prophylaxis Number of travelers identified earlier Average prob-ability that contact is infected $1,950...................................8.5 21 6 Unknown...............................0.0035Œ0.0095 
In the absence of interventions by public health departments, travelers 
infected with measles during 
international travel would be as likely 
as any other individuals to spark a 
measles outbreak. In the absence of 
HHS/CDC efforts to retrieve and 
transmit contact data, public health 
departments would not be able contact 
travelers to offer post-exposure 
prophylaxis and/or to recommend self- monitoring for potential measles 
symptoms. For measles in 2011, 16 outbreaks occurred leading to 107 cases. An 
outbreak was defined based on 3 or 
more cases in a cluster.50The remaining 113 cases reported in 2011 resulted in 
one or two cases per cluster. Thus, the 
probability that any individual measles 
index case leads to an outbreak was 
between 16/(16+113) = 12.4% and 16/ (16+57) = 20.1%. The lower bound 
represents an assumption that all of the 
113 cases unassociated with outbreaks 
of 3 or more cases occurred in clusters 
with just one case each. The upper 
bound represents a scenario with 56 
clusters of two cases each with one 
cluster with one case. Thus, the 
probability that any individual measles 
case could spark an outbreak of 3 or 
more cases is 12.4% to 20.1%. The VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00063Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6952 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
51Ortega-Sanchez IR, Vijayaraghavan M, Barskey AE, Wallace GS. The economic burden of sixteen measles outbreaks on United States public health 
departments in 2011. Vaccine. 2012;32(11). 52Zhou F, Shefer A, Wenger J, Messonnier M, Wang LY, Lopez A, et al. Economic Evaluation of 
the Routine Childhood Immunization Program in the United States, 2009. Pediatrics. 2014;133:577Œ 85. 53Mason WH, Ross LA, Lanson J, Wright HT. Epidemic measles in the postvaccine era: evaluation of epidemiology, clinical presentation, and 
complications during an urban outbreak. Pediatr 
Infect Dis J. 1993;12:42Œ8. 54Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Epidemiology and Prevention of Vaccine- Preventable Diseases, 13th EditionŠMeasles April 
2015 http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/pubs/pinkbook/ downloads/meas.pdf. Accessed 6/13/2016. average cost to public health departments per measles outbreak is 
$250,000 and the upper bound cost is $1 
million.51 HHS/CDC assumes that the probability that a measles case resulting 
from exposure during travel and that is 
not contacted by a public health 
department is as likely as any other 
measles case to initiate a measles 
outbreak of 3 or more cases, which 
occurs at an approximate probability of 
12.4% to 21.9%. The average cost to 
health departments is $250,000 for each 
of these outbreaks and the average 
outbreak size is about 7 cases (107 
cases/16 outbreaks). The estimated illness costs for measles are $300 ($86Œ$515) for outpatient cases and $24,500 ($3,900Œ 
$45,052) for inpatient cases.52The probability of hospitalization is 
estimated to be 44.3%.53A range of hospitalization rates is estimated based 
on 50% to 150% of this base case estimate (22%Œ66%). The measles case 
fatality rate has been estimated to be 
0.2%.54HHS/CDC assumes that the value of statistical life is $9.4 million 
(range $4.3 million to $14.2 million). 
This value is an estimate of the average 
willingness to pay to reduce one™s 
mortality risk by a small increment not 
an estimate of the value of any specific person™s life. For example if 1,000 people were willing to pay $1,000 each 
to reduce their risk of death by 1/1,000, 
the value of statistical life would be 
equal to $1,000/0.001 change in risk of 
death = $1 million. Alternatively 1,000 
people each experiencing a mortality 
risk reduction of 0.001 would 
correspond to 1,000 people × 0.001 mortality risk reduction = 1 statistical 
life; 1,000 people each willing to pay 
$1,000 = 1,000 × $1,000 = $1 million to avert that one statistical death. Using these estimates, the average illness costs 
associated with a measles case (Table 
27) is about $30,000 ($9,500 to $58,000). TABLE27ŠESTIMATEDILLNESSAND
MORTALITYCOSTSPER
MEASLESCASE Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
Outpatient cost, a......................................................................................................
$300 $86 $515 Inpatient cost, b.........................................................................................................
$24,500 $3,943 $45,052 
Hospitalization rate, c................................................................................................
44.30% 22.0% 66.0% Case fatality rate, d...................................................................................................
0.2% 0.2% 0.2% VSL, e........................................................................................................................$
9,400,000 $4,300,000 $14,200,000 
Total cost per case (b × c + a × (1¥c) + d × e).......................................................
$29,821 $9,535 $58,309 
The estimated number of measles cases that will occur in contacts exposed during travel (3.6 to 10.1) can 
be multiplied by the probability of an 
outbreak with 3 or more cases (12.4% to 
21.7%) to estimate the expected number of outbreaks in the absence of public 
health intervention to conduct contact 
investigations in exposed travelers. For 
each outbreak, HHS/CDC assumes that 
an average of 6 additional cases occur 
with associated morbidity and mortality costs. The estimated costs of measles outbreaks in the absence of contact 
investigations for exposed travelers is 
presented in Table 28. TABLE28ŠESTIMATEDILLNESS, MORTALITY, PUBLICHEALTHRESPONSECOSTSASSOCIATEDWITH
MEASLESOUTBREAKS Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
Estimated number of measles cases among contacts, a.........................................
6.85 3.6 10.1 Probability of measles outbreak, b............................................................................
17 12.4 21.9 Number of additional cases per outbreak, c.............................................................
6 6 6 Estimated number of outbreaks, d = a × b...............................................................1.18 0.45 2.22 
Estimated number of outbreak cases, e = a × b × c................................................7.06 2.68 13.29 
Estimated health department costs per outbreak, f..................................................
250,000 250,000 250,000 Estimated health department costs, g = f × d...........................................................293,989 111,607 553,758 
Average cost per case, h..........................................................................................
29,821 9,535 58,309 Estimated illness costs, I = h × e..............................................................................
210,406 25,539 774,944 
Estimated total costs, g + i........................................................................................
504,395 137,146 1,328,703 HHS/CDC has not received any reports of large measles outbreaks associated with measles cases in 
patients exposed during travel and 
contacted by State or local public health departments. As a result, HHS/CDC 
believes that when measles cases occur 
in contacts reached by health 
departments, the probability of an outbreak is significantly mitigated by pre-warning of exposure before disease 
outset. Given that HHS/CDC estimates 
that health departments are able to 
reach approximately 75% of contacts under the status quo, HHS/CDC assumes 
that the risk of an outbreak has been 
reduced by at least 60% under the status 
quo. Further, HHS/CDC assumes that the provisions in the final rule further improve health departments™ ability to 
prevent measles outbreaks in cases that 
occur among travelers exposed during 
flights. A modest improvement of 15% 
is assumed (range 10%Œ20%) resulting 
in estimated benefits of about $45,000 
($8,000 to $159,000) in Table 29. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00064Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6953 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
55Coleman M, Marienau K, Marano N, Marks S, Cetron M, Dis TMI. Economics of United States Tuberculosis Airline Contact Investigation Policies. 
Travel Medicine and Infectious Disease. 
2014;12:63Œ71. 56Coleman M, Marienau K, Marano N, Marks S, Cetron M, Dis TMI. Economics of United States 
Tuberculosis Airline Contact Investigation Policies. 
Travel Medicine and Infectious Disease. 
2014;12:63Œ71. 57Nelson K, Marienau K, Schembri C, Redd S. Measles transmission during air travel, United States, December 1, 2008ŒDecember 31, 2011. 
Travel Med Infect Dis. 2013;11(2):81Œ9. TABLE29ŠESTIMATEDBENEFITSASSOCIATEDWITHIMPROVEMENTOF
MEASLESCONTACTINVESTIGATIONSASA
RESULT OFTHISFINALRULE Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
Estimated total costs without intervention, j = g + i..................................................
$504,395 $137,146 $1,328
,703 Estimated effectiveness of outbreak prevention baseline, k.....................................
60% 60% 60% Estimated cost of measles outbreaks under baseline, j × (1¥k).............................
$201,758 $54,858 $531,481 
Estimated effectiveness of outbreak prevention with final rule, l..............................
69% 66% 72% Estimated cost of measles outbreaks with final rule, m = j × (1¥l).........................
$156,363 $46,630 $372,037 
Estimated benefit associated with final rule, n = j¥m..............................................
$45,396 $8,229 $159,444 
Marginal Impact on Tuberculosis Investigations Although measles is not a quarantinable disease and tuberculosis 
is a quarantinable disease, HHS/CDC™s 
and health departments™ approaches to 
contact investigations are relatively 
similar. However, HHS/CDC may issue 
isolation orders for individuals with 
active tuberculosis in some situations, 
but would not have authority to issue 
isolation (or quarantine orders) for 
individuals with measles. The expected 
benefits associated with reduced 
tuberculosis morbidity and mortality of 
contact investigations for exposed 
travelers are based on a previous 
analysis, which estimated a return on investment of $1.01 to $3.20 for the 
baseline situation in which an estimated 
19% of exposed contacts are found to have latent tuberculosis infection.55The contact rate for exposed tuberculosis 
contacts is probably higher than for 
measles because the vast majority of 
tuberculosis contacts are exposed 
during international travel as exposed to 
measles contacts, which are 
approximately evenly divided between 
interstate and international travel. The estimated costs to provide testing and treatment to contacts that test 
positive for latent tuberculosis infection 
are estimated to be $1,044 for infected 
contacts that complete a full course of 
treatment and $591 for infected contacts 
that discontinue treatment after 30 
days.56Following the assumptions in the article, an estimated 28% of persons 
who test positive for latent tuberculosis 
infection do not start treatment. An 
estimated 46% start and complete treatment and the remaining 26% start, 
but do not complete treatment. The 
authors estimated that the risk of 
progression to active tuberculosis is 
reduced by 80% for those that complete 
treatment. The authors assumed that 
there is no effect for individuals that 
start, but do not complete treatment. 
HHS/CDC assumes that under the status 
quo that health departments are able to 
contact 75% of exposed travelers (based 
on the reported outcomes from measles 
contact investigations).57 The costs to provide treatment for latent tuberculosis infections under the 
status quo are summarized in Table 30. 
In total, the costs are almost $900,000 
including about $720,000 to locate 
contacts and about $180,000 to provide 
treatment to individuals with latent 
tuberculosis infection. TABLE30ŠBASELINEESTIMATEDCOSTSTOCONDUCTTUBERCULOSISCONTACTINVESTIGATIONSAND
TOPROVIDE TREATMENT Number of contacts Estimated cost per contact Estimated cost Notes 
Estimated cost of contact investigations........
1,995 $360 $718,092 Number of contacts from Table 13 and cost 
per contact from Table 11. Estimated number of contacts reached by health departments (75%).1,496 NA ........................Estimated at 75% similar to measles from 
Table 24. Estimated number of contacts reached by health departments and have latent TB in-fection (19% of 75%).284 NA ........................Estimated 19% of contacts have LTBI (Table 
13). Number of contacts that never start treatment (28%).79.6 0 0 28% of 284 contacts with LTBI. 
Number of contacts that complete treatment (46%).130.8 1,044 136,506 46% of 284 contacts with LTBI. 
Number of contacts that start, but not com-pete treatment, (26%).73.9 591 43,677 26% of 284 contacts with LTBI. 
Total cost.................................................................................................898,275 
The benefits associated with tuberculosis contact investigations are estimated from a published article, 
which reported a range of $1.01 to 
$3.20. This analysis did not include the potential benefits from reduced onward transmission of tuberculosis among averted cases, potentially resulting in a 
conservative estimate of the return on 
investment. The formula used to derive 
estimated benefits from the return on investment (ROI) is Estimated Benefits = Estimated Costs × ROI + Estimated Costs. The estimated benefits are $2.6 million and are shown in Table 31 
(range: $1.8 million to $3.8 million). VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00065Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6954 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
TABLE31ŠBASELINEESTIMATEDCOSTSAND
BENEFITSFOR
TUBERCULOSISCONTACTINVESTIGATIONS, 2015 USD Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
Notes Estimate costs for contact investigations and treatment.$898,260 $898,260 $898,260 Table 30. 
Return on investment from tuberculosis con-tact investigations.1.91 1.01 3.20 Coleman et al. 
Estimated benefits..........................................2,613,936 1,805,502 3,772,691 = Cost 
× ROI + Costs. The provisions in the final rule should result in a small increase (assumed baseline of 10%, range: 5Œ 
15%) in the number of contacts reached 
by health departments and offered 
treatment for latent tuberculosis 
infection. This estimated improvement 
is less than that assumed for measles because tuberculosis usually involves a much longer period of latent infection prior to active disease; thus, 
tuberculosis contact investigations are 
less time sensitive relative to measles 
contact investigations. The estimated 
costs associated with this marginal 
improvement to reach more contacts can 
be estimated by multiplying the costs of providing latent tuberculosis ($180,000) by this range of improvement (5%Œ15%) as shown in Table 32. This results in 
marginal increased costs associated with 
the final rule of $18,000 (range: $9,000 
to $27,000). The estimated benefits 
(Table 32) associated with the final rule 
are $52,000 (range: $18,000 to 
$114,000). TABLE32ŠESTIMATEDCOSTSAND
BENEFITSFOR
TUBERCULOSISCONTACTINVESTIGATIONSASSOCIATEDWITHTHIS FINALRULE, 2015 USD Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
Notes Baseline contact investigation costs...............$718,080 $718,080 $718,080 
Baseline latent tuberculosis treatment costs..$180,180 $180,180 $180,180 Table 30 costs for latent tuberculosis treat-
ment and testing. Estimated improvement in health depart-ments™ abilities to contact exposed trav-elers.10% 5% 15% Assumed. 
Estimated increased cost for latent tuber-culosis treatment under final rule.$18,018 $9,009 $27,027 Estimated cost for improvement in contact 
rate as result of final rule. Estimated costs under final rule.....................$916,278 $907,269 $925,287 Estimated baseline cost + increased cost as 
result of final rule. Estimated ROI.................................................
$1.91 $1.01 $3.20 Table 30. 
Estimated benefits for final rule......................$2,666,368 $1,823,610 $3,886,204 = Cost 
× ROI + Costs. .Estimated costs associated with final rule......$18,018 $9,009 $27,027. Calculated from the difference in costs for 
the final ruleŠBaseline costs. Estimated benefits associated with final rule
$52,432 $18,108 $113,513 Calculated from the difference in benefits for 
the final ruleŠBaseline benefits. Total Costs and Benefits for Measles and Tuberculosis Contact Investigations The total costs for measles and tuberculosis contact investigation activities are estimated by summing the costs and benefits of measles contact 
investigations (Table 29) and 
tuberculosis contact investigations (Table 32). The results are summarized 
in Table 33. TABLE33ŠCHANGESIN
MEASLESAND
TUBERCULOSISCONTACTINVESTIGATIONSCOSTSAND
BENEFITSRELATIVETO
 BASELINE, 2015 USD Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
Final rule benefits......................................................................................................
$97,828 $26,337 $272,958 
Final rule costs..........................................................................................................
19,968 10,959 28,977 Note:This table includes the sum of results in Tables 29 and 32. Total Annual Benefits Resulting From Codification of Traveler Data Collection 
(71.4 and 71.5) and Change to Definition 
of ‚‚Ill Person™™ (70.1 and 71.1) Leading 
to Improved Contact Investigations and 
Health Outcomes for Measles and 
Tuberculosis The total quantified benefits (Table 34) resulting from the improvement of the quality and timeliness of traveler contact data or the improvement of 
illness reporting is summarized by 
summing the improved efficiency for 
HHS/CDC to provide contact data to 
health departments and improved 
efficiency for health departments to 
contact exposed travelers (Table 23) and 
the reductions associated with measles and tuberculosis morbidity and 
mortality (Table 33). VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00066Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6955 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
58Nelson KR, Marienau KJ, Barskey AE, Schembri C. No evidence of mumps transmission during air travel, United States, November 1, 2006ŒOctober 
31, 2010. Travel Medicine and Infectious Disease. 
2012;10:165Œ71. 59Marienau KJ, Cramer EH, Coleman MS, Marano N, Cetron MS. Flight related tuberculosis contact 
investigations in the United States: comparative risk 
and economic analysis of alternate protocols. Travel 
Med Infect Dis. 2014;12(1):54Œ62. TABLE34ŠTOTALANNUALCOSTSAND
BENEFITSASSOCIATEDWITHIMPROVEDEFFICIENCYPUBLICHEALTHRESPONSE ACTIVITIES, 2015 USD Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
Final rule benefits......................................................................................................
$110,045 $26,337 $297,393 
Final rule costs..........................................................................................................
19,968 10,959 28,977 The benefits and costs associated with improved effectiveness of contact investigations (Table 34) can be 
combined with the increased costs to airlines, vessel operators, DOT/FAA, 
and HHS/CDC to submit and respond to 
illness reports or to provide more timely 
and complete traveler contact data for manifest requests (Table 19) to estimate the total annual costs and benefits of the 
final rule (Table 35). TABLE35ŠTOTALANNUALCOSTSAND
BENEFITSOFTHE
FINALRULE, 2015 USD Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
Final rule benefits......................................................................................................
$110,045 $26,337 $297,393 
Final rule costs..........................................................................................................
32,622 10,959 430,839 
Other Diseases (Besides Measles and Tuberculosis) HHS/CDC does not have sufficient data to quantify the health impact of 
contact investigations for pertussis, 
rubella, varicella (vessels only), viral 
hemorrhagic fevers (including Ebola), 
MERS, or SARS. HHS/CDC attempts to 
continuously update its contact 
investigation protocols based on 
available evidence. In the past few 
years, HHS/CDC has stopped requesting 
data to conduct mumps contact 
investigations58and has modified its protocol to reduce the number of 
tuberculosis contacts investigated.59 Experience from interstate flight contact investigations suggest that 
travelers may want to know when they 
have been exposed to communicable 
diseases during flights. The first Ebola 
contact investigation conducted in the 
United States occurred in October, 2014, 
and found that 60 travelers out of 164 
had no contact information on the 
manifest that was provided by the 
airline. A second request was made to 
the airline after it was announced to the 
media that the airline had contacted 
over 800 travelers, including travelers 
who had flown on the same plane 
subsequent to the flight with the Ebola. 
At that time the airline was able to 
provide HHS/CDC more complete 
information for all travelers. It is likely that the need for CDC to put out media requests for travelers to contact the Agency created a level of fear in the general population that may 
not have been necessary if better contact 
data were available. In addition, this 
fear may have led to non-health costs 
(such as fear of airplane travel) that 
would have been mitigated if the 
Agency were able to contact all 
passengers without the media request. 
However, when HHS/CDC solicited 
public comment about perceived 
willingness to pay to be contacted in the 
event of an exposure to a communicable 
disease during, HHS/CDC only received 
a few public comments, all of which 
indicated that they had zero willingness 
to pay in the event of an exposure to a 
communicable disease. In summary, improved alignment between regulatory text and HHS/CDC™s 
publicly available guidance should 
reduce compliance costs for airlines and 
vessel operators while improving HHS/ CDC™s ability to respond to public health threats associated with 
international and interstate travel. To 
the extent that airlines and vessel 
operators improve responsiveness to 
HHS/CDC traveler data requests, HHS/
CDC may become better able to respond 
to infectious diseases threats and (1) 
reduce case-loads during infectious 
disease outbreaks, (2) reduce public 
anxiety during disease outbreaks, (3) 
mitigate economic impacts on 
businesses as a consequence of reduced 
public anxiety, and (4) reduce the 
amount of personnel labor time to conduct large-scale CIs in response to a 
new infectious disease or one with 
serious public health and medical 
consequences like Ebola. HHS/CDC will 
make all reasonable efforts to work with 
DHS/CBP via CDC™s liaison located at 
the National Targeting Center, as 
provided through internal 
Memorandum of Understanding, to search and obtain data collected from 
their APIS and PNR data sets prior to 
contacting airlines or vessel operators 
with duplicate data requests. Analysis of Alternatives Traveler Contact Data Alternatives For the less restrictive alternative, HHS/CDC assumes that the process of requesting contact data from airlines 
and vessel operators would be 
discontinued. Thus, the cost to provide 
such data can be modeled as a benefit 
to airlines and vessel operators equal to 
their costs under the baseline. For the 
more restrictive alternative, HHS/CDC 
assumes that suspension of entry may 
be implemented for travelers from 
countries experiencing widespread 
transmission of quarantinable 
communicable diseases. HHS/CDC 
notes that suspension of entry would 
not be considered for non-quarantinable 
diseases (refer to Table 4). Specifically, 
HHS/CDC assumes that persons 
traveling from affected countries are not 
permitted entry to the United States 
unless such persons spend an amount of 
time equivalent to the incubation period 
for the target disease at a location where 
they are not at risk of exposure and are 
also screened for symptoms of the 
disease prior to travel to the United 
States. During the 2014Œ2016 Ebola 
epidemic, travelers from Liberia, Sierra 
Leone or Guinea would not be able to 
enter until 21 days in another country 
or within the affected country but 
separated from others in a manner that 
excludes the possibility of interaction 
with potentially infected individuals. On average, HHS/CDC has conducted about 2.5 contact investigations for viral 
hemorrhagic fevers and MERS 
coronavirus over the past six years. 
HHS/CDC assumes that if suspensions VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00067Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6956 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
of entry may be in place, some fraction of these contact investigations may not 
be conducted. Thus, the cost to airlines and vessel operators to provide traveler contact 
data would decrease for the less restrictive alternative resulting in 
estimated benefits of $75,924. For the 
more restrictive scenario, the costs are 
relatively similar as for the final rule 
except for the reduction in cost 
associated with providing contact data for 2.5 investigations ($12,338 vs. $12,654) and calculating the cost 
reduction of doing 2.5 fewer contact 
investigations each year ($1,898) (Table 
36). TABLE36ŠESTIMATEOFTHE
COSTSAND
BENEFITSTO
AIRLINESAND
VESSELOPERATORSTOPROVIDETRAVELER CONTACTDATA, 2015 USD Baseline Final rule 
Less restrictive alternativea More restrictive alternativeb Baseline number of contact investigations......................................................
100 100 0 97.5 Costs Best estimate...................................................................................................
NA $12,654 
$0 $
12,338 Lower bound....................................................................................................
NA 0 0 0 Upper bound....................................................................................................
NA 25,308 
0 24,8
02 Benefits Best estimate...................................................................................................
NA $0 $75,924 $
1,898 Lower bound....................................................................................................
NA 0 75,924 1,89
8 Upper bound....................................................................................................
NA 0 75,924 1,89
8 aThe less restrictive alternative is less expensive than the status quo, because HHS/CDC does not request data from airlines and attempt to 
provide data to health departments to follow up with exposed travelers. bThe more restrictive alternative also could potentially reduce costs to airlines and vessel operators because HHS/CDC would restrict travel to 
countries undergoing widespread transmission of quarantinable communicable diseases such as viral hemorrhagic fevers, MERS or SARS. Illness Reporting Alternatives HHS/CDC examines two alternatives: A less restrictive alternative in which HHS/CDC relaxes its regulatory 
authorities to make illness reporting 
compliance voluntary rather than 
compulsory. Under the more restrictive 
alternative HHS/CDC may enforce the 
current requirement that airlines report 
all persons with communicable diseases 
to local health departments in addition 
to reporting to HHS/CDC. The current status quo for illness reporting is summarized in Tables 9 and 10. Reports can be subdivided by 
illnesses that fit (1) the ill person 
definition specified in current 42 CFR 
71.1, (2) reports based on HHS/CDC™s 
guidance for airlines and vessel 
operators, or (3) illness reports 
unrelated to current regulation or 
guidance. As shown in Table 9, only 
about 53 out of 175.4 (30%) illness 
reports during air travel appear to be 
based on symptoms included in the 
current definition of an ill person in 
existing 71.1. The remaining 70% of reports are based on symptoms 
currently requested by HHS/CDC, but 
not required. In addition, only 67% of 
illness reports during air travel require 
HHS/CDC response and follow-up. In 
comparison, illness reports from vessels 
are much more likely to be based on the 
definition of ill person as defined in 
current 71.1 (174.6/218.6 or 80%). In 
addition, a much greater proportion of 
reports require an HHS/CDC follow-up 
(>95%). This may result from 
differences in the types of illnesses 
observed on vessels relative to aircraft 
or because of the presence of medical 
officers on cruise vessels, who may be 
better able to identify communicable 
diseases of public health concern during 
travel relative to aircraft personnel. If illness reporting were entirely voluntary, HHS/CDC assumes the 
number of reports (both info-only and 
reports requiring response) would 
decrease by 50% from both airlines and 
vessel operators (refer to Tables 9 and 
10) from the current status quo. HHS/ 
CDC does not have any data to estimate the magnitude of decrease in reporting. 
HHS/CDC believes that both HHS/CDC 
and DOT/FAA would continue to 
maintain their current infrastructure to 
effectively respond to public health 
emergencies either on aircraft or vessels. 
Thus, relative to the status quo, the 
primary impact of voluntary reporting 
would be reduced incremental time 
costs for pilots in command and masters 
of vessels, travelers, DOT/FAA, and 
HHS/CDC, especially for info-only 
illness reports. This 50% reduction in 
illness reporting would generate 
benefits from cost reductions for airlines 
and vessel operators, HHS/CDC, 
travelers, and DOT/FAA of 
approximately $14,700 (Tables 37 and 
38). The adverse impact for the less restrictive alternative relative to the 
baseline would be reduced capacity for 
HHS/CDC to respond quickly to 
communicable disease threats occurring 
during travel. This is analyzed in a 
subsequent section on the health impact 
of regulated activities. TABLE37ŠLESSRESTRICTIVEALTERNATIVEFOR
ILLNESSREPORTING [Effect on info-only reports, 2015 USD] Employee type Change in number of info-only reports Amount of time required per report (min) Estimated wage rate (per hr.) Overhead multiplier (%) Estimated benefit (cost reduction) Aircraft: Aircraft Pilots or Copilots..........................................
60 2 $57.35 
100 $229 VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00068Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6957 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
TABLE37ŠLESSRESTRICTIVEALTERNATIVEFOR
ILLNESSREPORTINGŠContinued [Effect on info-only reports, 2015 USD] Employee type Change in number of info-only reports Amount of time required per report (min) Estimated wage rate (per hr.) Overhead multiplier (%) Estimated benefit (cost reduction) CDC employee.........................................................
60 60 39.83 
100 4,780 DOT/FAA employees................................................
60 26 70.57 
100 3,670 Traveler.....................................................................
60 10 23.23 0 232 
Air total......................................................................................................................
........................................8,911 
Vessels: Captains, Mates, and Pilots of Water Vessels.........
6 2 39.95 
100 16 CDC employee.........................................................
6 60 39.83 
100 478 Traveler.....................................................................
6 10 23.23 0 23 
Maritime total.................................................................................................................
....................................517 
Total (Air + Maritime).........................................................................................................
........................9,428 
Assume 50% reduction in reports. TABLE38ŠLESSRESTRICTIVEALTERNATIVEFOR
ILLNESSREPORTING [Effect on reports requiring response, 2015 USD] Employee type Change in number of info-only reports Amount of time required per report (min) Estimated 
wage rate (per hr.) Overhead multiplier (%) Estimated benefit (cost reduction) Aircraft: Aircraft pilots or copilots...........................................
29 2 $57.35 
100 $111 CDC employee.........................................................
29 0 39.83 
100 DOT/FAA employee..................................................
29 26 70.57 
100 1,774 Traveler.....................................................................
29 60 23.23 0 674 
Total...................................................................................................................................................................
2,558 Vessels: Captains, mates, and pilots (masters) of vessels....
104 2 39.95 
100 277 CDC employee.........................................................
104 0 39.83 
100 Traveler.....................................................................
104 60 23.23 0 2,416 
Total...................................................................................................................................................................
2,693 Total (Air + Maritime).........................................................................................................
........................5,251 
Notes: Assume 50% reduction in air illness reports and 15% of maritime illness reports (response, international and interstate). Under the more restrictive alternative, HHS/CDC would require duplicate illness reporting both to HHS/CDC and 
to local health departments with 
jurisdiction upon arrival for interstate 
flights and voyages. This alternative is 
based upon the existing regulatory text 
under 42 CFR 70.4. HHS/CDC assumes 
that 50% of illness reports occur during 
interstate (relative to international) air 
travel and that 15% of maritime illness reports occur during interstate travel. 
The time required for pilots in 
command and masters of vessels is 
assumed to be about 4 minutes. This 
duration is greater than the amount of 
time estimate for reporting to HHS/CDC 
because pilots in command and masters 
of vessels may have to search for contact 
information for local health departments 
and because local health departments 
may have less experience dealing with illness reports than HHS/CDC. The costs 
to airlines and vessel operators is 
estimated to be $848 per year (Table 39). 
Since HHS/CDC would coordinate 
responses to illness reports with local 
health departments under the status 
quo, there are no additional costs or 
benefits to requiring duplicative reports 
to local health departments. These costs 
would be added to the costs of the 
changes resulting from the final rule. TABLE39ŠMORERESTRICTIVEALTERNATIVE(ILLNESSREPORTINGIN
DUPLICATETO
HHS/CDC ANDTO
LOCALHEALTH DEPARTMENTS), 2015 USD Employee type Change in number of info-only reports Amount of time required per report (min) Estimated wage rate (2015 USD per hr.) Overhead multiplier (%) Estimated cost ($2015 USD) Aircraft pilots or copilots......................................................
88 4 $57.35 
100 $673 VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00069Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6958 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
TABLE39ŠMORERESTRICTIVEALTERNATIVE(ILLNESSREPORTINGIN
DUPLICATETO
HHS/CDC ANDTO
LOCALHEALTH DEPARTMENTS), 2015 USDŠContinued Employee type Change in number of info-only reports Amount of time required per report (min) Estimated wage rate (2015 USD per hr.) Overhead multiplier (%) Estimated cost ($2015 USD) Captains, mates, and pilots (masters) of vessels...............
33 4 39.83 
100 175 Total..............................................................................................................................................................................
848 The total costs and benefits associated with the more and less restrictive illness reporting scenarios as compared to the final rule are summarized in Table 40. TABLE40ŠBESTESTIMATE, LOWERBOUNDAND
UPPERBOUNDOFTHE
CHANGESIN
ANNUALMONETIZEDBENEFITSAND
 COSTSASA
RESULTOFTHE
CHANGETOTHE
REPORTABLEILLNESSDEFINITION, 2015 USD Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
Costs Final Rule: Aircraft.......................................................................................................................
...........$0 $0 $375,751 
Vessels........................................................................................................................
.........0 0 802 
Total..........................................................................................................................
.....0 0 376,554 
Less Restrictive Alternative:a Aircraft.......................................................................................................................
...........0 0 0 
Vessels........................................................................................................................
.........0 0 0 
Total..........................................................................................................................
.....0 0 0 
More Restrictive Alternative: Aircraft.......................................................................................................................
...........673 673 376,424 
Vessels........................................................................................................................
.........175 175 978 
Total..........................................................................................................................
.....848 848 377,402 
Benefits Final Rule: Aircraft.......................................................................................................................
...........0 0 0 
Vessels........................................................................................................................
.........0 0 0 
Total..........................................................................................................................
.....0 0 0 
Less Restrictive Alternative:a Aircraft.......................................................................................................................
...........11,469 11,469 11,469 
Vessels........................................................................................................................
.........3,210 3,210 3,210 
Total..........................................................................................................................
.....14,679 14,679 14,679 
More Restrictive Alternative: Aircraft.......................................................................................................................
...........0 0 0 
Vessels........................................................................................................................
.........0 0 0 
Total..........................................................................................................................
.....0 0 0 
aFor the less restrictive scenario, the current reporting requirement is relaxed leading to a reduction in costs. The total costs of the alternatives compared to the final rule are 
summarized in Table 41 and include the costs of the change to the definition of 
an ‚‚ill person™™ and the codification of 
the requirement for airlines to provide passenger contact data for the final rule, 
the less restrictive alternative, and the 
more restrictive alternative. TABLE41ŠTOTALCOSTSAND
BENEFITSRESULTINGFROMCODIFICATIONOF
TRAVELERDATACOLLECTION(71.4 AND 71.5) ANDCHANGETO
DEFINITIONOF
‚‚ILLPERSON™™ (70.1 AND71.1) Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
Costs Final Rule: 71.4 and 71.5 Passenger data collection.............................................................................$12,654 
$0 $25,308 VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00070Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6959 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
TABLE41ŠTOTALCOSTSAND
BENEFITSRESULTINGFROMCODIFICATIONOF
TRAVELERDATACOLLECTION(71.4 AND 71.5) ANDCHANGETO
DEFINITIONOF
‚‚ILLPERSON™™ (70.1 AND71.1)ŠContinued Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
70.1 and 71.1 Change in definition of an ‚‚ill person™™..........................................................
0 0 376,554 
Total costs....................................................................................................................
.12,654 0 401,862 
Less Restrictive Alternative: 71.4 and 71.5 Passenger data collection.............................................................................
0 0 0 70.1 and 71.1 Change in definition of an ‚‚ill person™™..........................................................
0 0 0 Total costs....................................................................................................................
.0 0 0 
More Restrictive Alternative: 71.4 and 71.5 Passenger data collection.............................................................................12,338 
0 24
,802 70.1 and 71.1 Change in definition of an ‚‚ill person™™..........................................................
848 848 377,40
2 Total costs....................................................................................................................
.13,186 848 402,204 
Benefits Final Rule: 71.4 and 71.5 Passenger data collection.............................................................................
0 0 0 70.1 and 71.1 Change in definition of an ‚‚ill person™™..........................................................
0 0 0 Total benefits.................................................................................................................
0 0 0 Less Restrictive Alternative: 71.4 and 71.5 Passenger data collection.............................................................................75,924 75,9
24 75,924 70.1 and 71.1 Change in definition of an ‚‚ill person™™..........................................................14,679 14,679 
14,679 Total benefits.................................................................................................................
90,603 90,603 90,603 More Restrictive Alternative: 71.4 and 71.5 Passenger data collection.............................................................................
1,898 1,898
 1,898 70.1 and 71.1 Change in definition of an ‚‚ill person™™..........................................................
0 0 0 Total benefits.................................................................................................................
1,898 1,898 1,898 Staff Time for Contact Investigations For the less restrictive alternative, the change relative to baseline is equal to the current cost of performing Cis for travelers exposed on international 
flights ($745,000 each for HHS/CDC and 
local health departments or a total of 
about $1.5 million, Table 20). Under the more restrictive alternative (i.e. implementing travel restrictions 
immediately upon evidence of 
widespread transmission of viral 
hemorrhagic fevers, SARS or MERS, the 
costs of these contact investigations are 
assumed to be avoided (potential cost 
reductions of about $29,000 each to HHS/CDC and health departments or 
$58,000 in total). The benefits of the 
avoided contacted investigations are 
then added to the cost savings for the 
remaining contacts assuming a 0Œ3% 
improvement in HHS/CDC efficiency 
and a 0Œ2% improvement in PHD 
efficiency as for the final rule (Table 42). TABLE42ŠESTIMATEDBENEFITSASSOCIATEDWITHREDUCEDCOSTSTOCONDUCTCONTACTINVESTIGATIONS HHS/CDC benefits PHD benefits Total Final Rule: Best estimate..................................................................................................................
......$7,331 $4,887 $12,218 
Lower bound....................................................................................................................
.....0 0 0 
Upper bound....................................................................................................................
.....14,661 9,774 24,435 
Less Restrictive Alternative: Best estimate..................................................................................................................
......745,380 745,380 1,490,760 
Lower bound....................................................................................................................
.....745,380 745,380 1,490,760 
Upper bound....................................................................................................................
.....745,380 745,380 1,490,760 
More Restrictive Alternative: Best estimate..................................................................................................................
......36,671 34,227 70,898 
Lower bound....................................................................................................................
.....29,340 29,340 58,680 
Upper bound....................................................................................................................
.....44,001 39,114 83,115 
Measles Contact Investigation Health OutcomesŠAlternatives For this analysis, under the less restrictive alternative, HHS/CDC assumes that no contact investigations 
are performed for measles. As a result, the probability of onward transmission from 3.6 to 10.1 measles patients 
exposed each year during travel greatly 
increases and is modeled based on the 
estimated costs of measles in the 
absence of intervention $504,000 (range: $137,000 to $1.3 million) (Table 28). 
Measles outcomes for the more 
restrictive alternative are the same as 
estimated for the final rule since there 
is no difference in measles efforts 
between the final rule and the more VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00071Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6960 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
restrictive alternative because measles is not a quarantinable disease. The 
comparative benefits relative to the status quo baseline are shown in Table 
43. For the less restrictive alternative, 
costs are estimated based on an increase in measles outbreak costs relative to the baseline. TABLE43ŠESTIMATEDBENEFITSASSOCIATEDWITHAVERTEDCOSTSFROMMEASLESOUTBREAKSRELATIVETO
 BASELINE, 2015 USD Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
Benefits Final Rule.....................................................................................................................
................$45,396 $8,229 $159,444 
Less Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......0 0 0 
More Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......45,396 8,229 159,444 
Costs Final Rule.....................................................................................................................
................1,950 1,950 1,950 
Less Restrictive Alternativea.......................................................................................................201,758 54,858 531,481 
More Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......1,950 1,950 1,950 
aFor the less restrictive alternative, contact investigations are not performed so the cost can be estimated based on the estimated public 
health benefit of contact investigations performed under the baseline (Table 29). Tuberculosis Contact Investigations 
Health OutcomesŠAlternatives Under the less restrictive alternative, tuberculosis contact investigation are no 
longer conducted for persons exposed during travel. Relative to the baseline, 
there are neither costs to conduct such 
investigations (resulting in benefits of about $180,000 to forego providing treatment for latent tuberculosis 
treatment) or benefits associated with 
reduced tuberculosis morbidity and 
mortality. Relative to the baseline, the 
estimated cost of increased tuberculosis 
morbidity and mortality is estimated to 
be $2.6 million (range: $1.8 million to $3.8 million). Under the more restrictive alternative in which suspension of entry is enforced in response to quarantinable 
communicable disease outbreaks, there 
is no change relative to the final rule 
results because it is unlikely that a 
tuberculosis outbreak would cause 
suspension of entry. Results are 
summarized in Table 44. TABLE44ŠCHANGESIN
TUBERCULOSISCONTACTINVESTIGATIONSCOSTSAND
BENEFITSRELATIVETO
BASELINE, 2015 USD Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
Notes Benefits Final Rule........................................................$52,432 18,108 113,513 Table 32. 
Less Restrictive Alternative............................180,180 180,180 180,180 Assumed to be the cost to provide LTBI 
treatment under the baseline (Table 32). More Restrictive Alternative............................52,432 18,108 113,513 The more restrictive alternative has the 
same effect on TB contact investigations as the final rule. Costs Final Rule........................................................18,018 9,009 27,027 Table 32. 
Less Restrictive Alternative............................$2,613,936 $1,805,502 $3,772,691 Estimated based on the benefits of avo
ided TB morbidity and mortality resulting from 
contact investigations under the baseline. More Restrictive Alternative............................18,018 9,009 27,027 The more restrictive alternative has the 
same effect on TB contact investigations 
as final rule. The total costs and benefits of changes in health outcomes associated with the more and less restrictive alternatives 
compared to the provisions included in 
the Final Rule are summarized in Table 45. The less restrictive alternative in which contact investigations are no longer pursued shows a large increase in 
costs relative to the baseline and in 
comparison to the provisions in the 
final rule. In addition, there are some benefits, but not enough to offset the costs. The more restrictive alternative does not change health outcomes for 
tuberculosis and measles in comparison 
to the final rule. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00072Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6961 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
TABLE45ŠCHANGESIN
MEASLESAND
TUBERCULOSISCONTACTINVESTIGATIONSCOSTSAND
BENEFITSRELATIVETO
 BASELINE, 2015 USD Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
Benefits Final Rule.....................................................................................................................
................$97,828 $26,337 $272,958 
Less Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......180,180 180,180 180,180. 
More Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......97,828 26,337 272,958 
Costs Final Rule.....................................................................................................................
................19,968 10,959 28,977 
Less Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......2,815,694 1,860,360 4,304,172 
More Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......19,968 10,959 28,977 
Note: This table includes the sum of results in Tables 43 and 44. The total quantified costs and benefits (Table 46) resulting from the additional data provision and timeliness of traveler 
contact data or the improvement of 
illness reporting for alternatives to the provisions included in the final rule is 
summarized by summing the improved 
efficiency for HHS/CDC to provide 
contact data to health departments and 
improved efficiency for health departments to contact exposed 
travelers (Table 42) and the reductions 
associated with measles and 
tuberculosis morbidity and mortality 
(Table 45). TABLE46ŠTOTALANNUALCOSTSAND
BENEFITSASSOCIATEDWITHIMPROVEDEFFICIENCYPUBLICHEALTHRESPONSE ACTIVITIES, 2015 USD Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound Benefits FR.............................................................................................................................
...................$110,045 $26,337 $297,393 
Less Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......1,670,940 1,670,940 1,670,940 
More Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......168,725 85,017 356,073 
Costs FR.............................................................................................................................
...................19,968 10,959 28,977 
Less Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......2,815,694 1,860,360 4,304,172 
More Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......19,968 10,959 28,977 
The total annual costs and benefits for the alternatives compared to the final 
rule are summarized in Table 47. 
Although the benefits for the more 
restrictive alternative in which 
suspensions of entry would be 
implemented for countries experiencing 
outbreaks of quarantinable 
communicable diseases are greater than 
the quantified annual benefits of the final rule, the costs are underestimated. 
HHS/CDC does not have sufficient data 
to quantify the long term costs of 
implementing suspensions of entry for 
countries experiencing outbreaks of 
quarantinable diseases; however, such 
costs would probably exceed the 
$100,000 in estimated benefits 
associated with suspensions of entry 
that may result in fewer contact investigations for quarantinable diseases such as Ebola and MERS. Refer to the 
appendix for some details of potential 
costs associated with hypothetical 
suspensions of entry for the countries 
with widespread Ebola transmission 
during the 2014Œ2016 global Ebola 
epidemic. TABLE47ŠTOTALANNUALCOSTSAND
BENEFITSOFTHE
FINALRULE, LESSRESTRICTIVEAND
MORERESTRICTIVE ALTERNATIVES, 2015 USD Best estimate Lower bound Upper bound 
Benefits Final Rule.....................................................................................................................
................$110,045 $26,337 $297,393 
Less Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......1,780,524 1,780,524 1,780,524 
More Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......170,623 86,915 357,971 
Costs Final Rule.....................................................................................................................
................32,622 10,959 430,839 
Less Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......2,815,694 1,860,360 4,304,172 
More Restrictive Alternative...................................................................................................
......33,154 11,807 431,181 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00073Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6962 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
Codification of Current Practice (Multiple Provisions in Final Rule) HHS/CDC does not expect that most of the provisions included in the final 
rule will result in measurable changes 
relative to the economic baseline. The 
primary purpose of the provisions 
summarized in list below is to explain 
how HHS/CDC interprets its current 
statutory and regulatory authority under 
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
264, 265) and regulations at 42 CFR 
parts 70 and 71. HHS/CDC is grouping 
the complementary provisions in part 
70 and part 71 in the list below, when 
they align, to facilitate public review of 
the current provisions as well as those 
included in the final rule. These 
changes are intended to clarify the 
agency™s standard operating procedures 
and policies, and due process rights for 
individuals. HHS/CDC believes that 
such clarity is an important qualitative 
benefit of the provisions in this final 
rule, but is not able to monetize this 
impact in a significant way. •New Provisions: §70.5 
Requirements relating to travelers under 
a Federal order of isolation, quarantine, 
or conditional release. ÆBaseline and Current Regulatory Provision: §70.5 Certain communicable 

disease; special requirements. DWithout the final rule, HHS/CDC may issue Federal orders to restrict 
travel for persons infected or exposed to 
quarantinable communicable diseases. 
However, this process is less transparent 
and efficient than allowing travel (i.e. 
issue travel permits to allow interstate 
travel to persons under Federal orders 
for diseases not currently identified 
under existing 42 CFR 70.5.) Under 
current practice, HHS/CDC issues 
approximately one Federal order per 
year, most frequently for tuberculosis, 
which is a disease not included in the 
current 70.5. ÆChange relative to baseline as result of final rule DWith the final rule, HHS/CDC is aligning the list of diseases for which 
individuals under Federal orders may 
be allowed to travel with the 
quarantinable communicable diseases 
specified in Executive Order. A 
potential future qualitative benefit 
would be to reduce uncertainty by the 
individual subject to the order, carrier 
operators, and cooperating health and 
law enforcement entities about whether 
HHS/CDC could issue a travel permit to 
an individual under a Federal order and quantifiable benefit would be the 
avoided cost of potential legal 
challenge. ÆQualitative benefit/cost of final rule DImproved transparency for HHS/ CDC™s ability to allow individuals under Federal orders to issue travel permits to 
allow individuals to travel (interstate). 
HHS/CDC may allow persons under 
Federal orders to travel interstate for 
whom there is greater uncertainty 
regarding HHS/CDC restricting their 
travel. ÆMonetized benefit/cost of final rule DIncreased clarity around due process may result in fewer resources 
and time expended by individuals 
under orders and HHS/CDC in 
disagreements over HHS/CDC™s 
authority to issue Federal public health 
orders that limit an individual™s 
movement. This includes the potential 
costs of litigation and associated 
activities. •New provisions: §70.6 
Apprehension and detention of persons 
with specific diseases; §71.32 Persons, 

carriers, and things (no change to title) ÆBaseline and Current Regulatory Provision: DUnder current 42 CFR 70.6 and §71.32, HHS/CDC has regulatory 

authority to apprehend and detain 
individuals with quarantinable 
communicable diseases. ÆChange relative to baseline as result of final rule DAs a result of these new provisions, the major change would be improved 
transparency of HHS/CDC™s regulatory 
authority with regard to the issuance of 
Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release orders of individuals 
traveling interstate. ÆQualitative benefit/cost of final rule D;Improved transparency and compliance with Federal orders. ÆMonetized benefit/cost of final rule DIncreased clarity around due process may result in fewer resources 
and time expended by individuals 
under orders, cooperating entities, and 
CDC in disagreements over HHS/CDC™s 
authority to issue Federal public health 
orders that limit an individual™s 
movement. This includes the potential 
costs of litigation and associated 
activities. •New Provisions: §70.10 Public 
health prevention measures to detect 
communicable disease; §71.20 Public 

health prevention measures to detect 
communicable disease. ÆBaseline and Current Regulatory Provisions: No explicit regulatory 
provision. DIn the absence of the final rule and under existing statutory authority 
provided in the Public Health Service 
Act and regulatory authority provided 
by 42 CFR 70.2 and 71.32(b), HHS/CDC 
could still implement public health 
measures at locations where individuals 
may gather for interstate travel or at U.S. 
ports of entry. However, without more transparent regulatory authority to 
require such measures, travelers may be 
less likely to comply, either by refusing 
to answer risk assessment questions or 
providing false information. This lack of 
compliance may require that HHS/CDC, 
if it reasonably believes that the 
individual is infected with or has been 
exposed to a quarantinable 
communicable disease, to quarantine, 
isolate, or place the individual under 
surveillance under 42 CFR 70.6 or 71.32 
and 71.33. HHS/CDC has not 
implemented public health measures at 
locations where individuals may 
congregate for the purposes of interstate 
travel in at least 50 years and cannot 
predict if or how often it may 
implement measures in the future. ÆChange relative to baseline as result of final rule DImproved transparency and potentially improved compliance in the 
event that HHS/CDC implements such 
measures in the future. ÆQualitative benefit/cost of final rule DImproved transparency and public understanding of HHS/CDC™s rationale 
and authority to conduct such measures 
and require individuals to comply. ÆMonetized benefit/cost of final rule DIncreased clarity around due process procedures may result in fewer 
resources and time expended by 
individuals under orders and HHS/CDC 
in disagreements over HHS/CDC™s 
authority to issue Federal public health 
orders that limit an individual™s 
movement. This includes the potential 
costs of litigation and associated 
activities. •New Provisions: §70.12 Medical 
examinations; §71.36 Medical 

Examinations ÆBaseline and Current Regulatory Provisions: 71.33 Persons: Isolation and 
Surveillance. DThis is carried out under statutory authority and under the regulatory 
authorities in 42 CFR 70.6 and 71.32(a), 
71.33, which would allow for medical 
examinations of individuals under 
Federal orders. ÆChange to baseline as result of final rule DWith the final rule, the major change would be an alignment between the statutory language in the Public 
Health Service Act and improved 
transparency of HHS/CDC™s regulatory 
authority. ÆQualitative benefit/cost of final rule DImproved transparency and public understanding of HHS/CDC™s rationale 
and authority to conduct such measures 
and require individuals to comply. ÆMonetized benefit/cost of final rule DIncreased clarity around due process procedures may result in fewer VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00074Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6963 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
resources and time expended by individuals under orders, cooperating 
entities, and HHS/CDC in disagreements 
over HHS/CDC™s authority to issue 
Federal public health orders that limit 
an individual™s movement. This 
includes the potential costs of litigation 
and associated activities. •New Provisions: §70.13 Payment 
for Care and Treatment; §71.30 Payment 

for Care and Treatment ÆBaseline and Current Regulatory Provisions: No current explicit 
regulatory provision. DThis addition is not expected to lead to a change in HHS/CDC policy 
under which HHS/CDC may act as the 
payer of last resort for individuals 
subject to medical examination, 
quarantine, isolation, and conditional 
release under Federal orders. The 
provisions included in the final rule are 
similar to a Memorandum of Agreement 
between a number of hospitals and 
HHS/CDC. Under the terms of the 
Memorandum of Agreement, the 
hospital can be reimbursed for incurred 
medical expenses subject to HHS/CDC™s 
discretion, availability of 
appropriations, and limited to what a 
hospital would bill Medicare. The 
Memorandum of Agreement also 
indicates that HHS/CDC should be the 
payer of last resort. DHHS/CDC issued 12 isolation orders between Jan 1, 2005 and May 10, 2016, 
which would correspond to an average of about 1 order per year over the past 
11.3 years. HHS/CDC has information 
on payments made for 3 of the 12 cases. 
In most cases, HHS/CDC makes 
payment directly to healthcare facilities, 
sometimes in lieu of payments that 
would be made by State or local health 
departments. Among the three instances 
for which HHS/CDC has some data on 
payments for treatment, care, and 
transportation of individuals under 
Federal orders: DHHS/CDC™s expected annual payments for care and treatment are 
estimated to be between $0 and 
$1,000,000 in any given year under the 
current baseline. This upper bound cost 
would correspond to a year in which 
HHS/CDC would have to incur the costs 
of two patients at $500,000 per patient. 
This roughly corresponds to the average 
cost to treat an extremely drug-resistant 
tuberculosis case (XDRŒTB). 
Alternatively, this could represent a 
situation in which HHS/CDC may have 
to pay a significant fraction of the total 
costs for one very complicated illness 
associated with a quarantinable 
communicable disease not endemic to 
the United States (e.g., Ebola). DHHS/CDC has not incurred any costs for the care and treatment of any individuals besides for those under 
Federal isolation orders. ÆChange to baseline as result of final rule DImproved transparency around HHS/CDC™s authority for, and 
requirements and processes related to 
payment for care and treatment. ÆQualitative benefit/cost of final rule DImproved transparency and public knowledge of HHS/CDC™s procedures 
and regulatory requirements. ÆMonetized benefit/cost of final rule DNone. This is a clarification of HHS/ CDC™s current practice. (For more 
details, please refer to separate RIA 
Appendix) •New Provisions: §70.14 
Requirements relating to the issuance of 
a Federal order for quarantine, isolation, 
or conditional release; §71.37 

Requirements relating to the issuance of 
a Federal order for quarantine, isolation, 
or conditional release ÆBaseline and Current Regulatory Provisions: No current explicit 
regulatory provision DWithout the final rule, HHS/CDC can under current statutory provided by 
the Public Health Service Act and 
regulatory authority under 42 CFR 70.6 
and 71.32(a), 71.33 continue to issue 
Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
condition release orders. However, the 
issuance of federal orders is 
implemented through internal policies 
and standard operating procedures that 
are not as transparent to the public as 
detailed regulations outlining 
requirements. ÆChange to baseline as result of final rule DImproved transparency around HHS/CDC™s authority for, and 
requirements and processes related to, 
the issuance of Federal quarantine, 
isolation, and conditional release 
orders. ÆQualitative benefit/cost of final rule DImproved transparency and public knowledge of HHS/CDC™s procedures 
and regulatory requirements. ÆMonetized benefit/cost of final rule DNone. This is a clarification of HHS/ CDC™s current practice. •New Provisions: §70.15 Mandatory 
reassessment of a Federal order for 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release; §71.38 Mandatory reassessment 

of a Federal order for quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release ÆBaseline and Current Regulatory Provisions: No current explicit 
regulatory provision. DWithout the final rule, HHS/CDC can under current statutory authority 
provided by the Public Health Service 
Act and regulatory authority under 42 
CFR 70.6 and 71.32(a), 71.33 continue to issue Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release orders. However, the 
process for reassessing a Federal order 
is implemented through internal policy 
and standard operating procedures that 
are not as transparent to the public as 
detailed regulations outlining 
requirements. ÆChange to baseline as result of final rule: DWith the final rule, individuals under Federal order may be more aware 
of the mandatory reassessment of a 
Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release order. ÆQualitative benefit/cost of final rule DImproved transparency and understanding of due process 
protections under a Federal public 
health order. ÆMonetized benefit/cost of final rule DIncreased clarity around due process protections may result in fewer 
resources and time expended by 
individuals under orders and HHS/CDC 
in disagreements over HHS/CDC™s 
authority to issue Federal public health 
orders that limit an individual™s 
movement. This includes the potential 
costs of litigation and associated 
activities. •New Provisions: §70.16 Medical 
review of a Federal order for quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release; §71.39 

Medical review of a Federal order for 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release ÆBaseline and Current Regulatory Provisions: No current explicit 
regulatory provision. DWithout the final rule, HHS/CDC can under current statutory authority 
provided by the Public Health Service 
Act and regulatory authority under 42 
CFR 70.6 and 71.32, 71.33 continue to 
issue Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release orders. However, the 
process for a medical review of a 
Federal order is outlined in internal 
policy and standard operating 
procedures that are not as transparent to 
the public as detailed regulations 
outlining requirements. ÆChange to baseline as result of final rule: DWith the final rule, individuals under Federal order may become aware 
of their right to a medical review, and 
exercise that right, under this due 
process provision. ÆQualitative benefit/cost of final rule DImproved transparency and understanding of due process afforded 
to individuals under a Federal order ÆMonetized benefit/cost of final rule D Increased clarity around due process protections may result in fewer 
resources and time expended by 
individuals under orders and HHS/CDC VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00075Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6964 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
in disagreements over HHS/CDC™s authority to issue Federal public health 
orders that limit an individual™s 
movement. This includes the potential 
costs of litigation and associated 
activities. DOne potential change that could have an economic effect is the 
requirements to appoint medical and 
legal representatives for individuals that 
qualify as ‚‚indigent™™. The status of 
‚‚indigent™™ is self-reported as HHS/CDC 
will not require access to an 
individual™s financial records. Those 
who self-identify as indigent may be 
required to sign an affidavit or 
declaration under penalty of perjury 
stating they meet the threshold of at 
least 200% of the applicable poverty 
guidelines. HHS/CDC notes that in 
practice it has never denied a request for 
a representative. HHS/CDC estimates 
the cost of providing one medical 
representative and one legal 
representative based on the average 
hourly wage for physicians and 
surgeons ($97.33, occupation code 29Œ 
1060) and lawyers ($65.51, occupation 
code 23Œ1011) as reported from the 
Bureau of Labor Statistics™ May 2015 
National Occupational Employment and 
Wage Estimates. Assuming that it takes 
about 40 hours of physician time and 40 
hours of lawyer time per review and an 
overhead cost multiplier of 100%, the 
expected cost is about $13,000 per 
review. HHS/CDC notes that public 
health orders are issued on average once 
per year. The need for HHS/CDC to pay 
for medical and legal representatives 
will depend on the income level for 
persons placed under federal orders, but 
should not exceed this $13,000 estimate 
in most years and will be $0 in many 
years. Without the new regulatory 
provision, as part of current practice, 
HHS/CDC would still attempt to appoint 
legal and medical representatives if 
requested for the medical review by 
individuals unable to afford the cost of such representation. Thus, relative to 
current practice, there should be 
minimal costs associated with this 
provision. •New Provisions: §70.17 
Administrative records relating to 
Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release; §71.29 

Administrative records relating to 
Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release ÆBaseline and Current Regulatory Provisions: No current explicit 
regulatory provision. DWithout the final rule, HHS/CDC can issue under current statutory 
provided by the Public Health Service 
Act and regulatory authority under 42 
CFR 70.6 and 71.32(a), 71.33 continue to issue Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release orders. However, the 
process for documenting the 
administrative record is implemented 
internal policy and standard operating 
procedures that are not as transparent to 
the public as a detailed regulation 
outlining this requirement. ÆChange to baseline as result of final rule DThe requirement, with which HHS/ CDC is already complying, will clarify for the public that certain documents 
must be retained for the administrative 
record. ÆQualitative benefit/cost of final rule DImproved transparency ÆMonetized benefit/cost of final rule DNot applicable. This is a codification of an administrative 
activity within HHS/CDC. •New Provisions: §70.18 Penalties/
§71.2 Penalties 
ÆBaseline and Current Regulatory Provision: §71.2 Penalties. Part 70 

currently has no penalties provision. DWithout the final rule, individuals may not be aware that 18 U.S.C. 3559 
and 3571 increased the maximum 
penalties for violations of regulations 
under 42 CFR part 70 and part 71. And 
it may not be clear to individuals that 
violating quarantine regulation under 42 
CFR part 70 may result in criminal 
penalties. ÆChange to baseline as result of final rule DWith the NRPM, there will be less confusion about the maximum criminal 
penalties for a violation of regulations 
under 42 CFR 70 and 71. ÆQualitative benefit/cost of final rule DImproved transparency and alignment with current law under 18 
U.S.C. 3559 and 3571. ÆMonetized benefit/cost of final rule •No individual or organization has been assessed criminal penalties for 
violating these regulations, so 
monetizing this benefit or cost is not 
feasible. This is simply an effort to align 
the domestic and foreign quarantine 
penalties provisions, and updates 
outdated regulatory language so that it 
reflects current statutory language 
concerning criminal penalties. •New Provisions: §71.63 Suspension 
of entry of animals, articles, or things 
from designated foreign countries and 
places into the United States ÆBaseline and Current Regulatory Provision: §71.32(b) has previously 

been used to justify the temporary 
embargo of imported African rodents 
prior to the codification of this as a 
requirement in existing 42 CFR 71.56. DWithout the final rule, individuals may not be aware that HHS/CDC™s 
authority to temporarily suspend entry of animals, articles or things from 
designated foreign countries and places 
into the United States based on existing 
42 CFR 71.32(b). ÆChange to baseline as result of final rule DWith the NRPM, there will be less confusion about HHS/CDC™s ability to 
temporarily restrict importations 
associated with communicable disease 
risks. ÆQualitative benefit/cost of final rule DImproved transparency. ÆMonetized benefit/cost of final rule DRefer to the appendix for an analysis of the temporary embargo of 
African rodents implemented in 2003. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, as amended by the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act 
(SBREFA), agencies are required to 
analyze regulatory options to minimize 
significant economic impact of a rule on 
small businesses, small governmental 
units, and small not-for-profit 
organizations. We have analyzed the 
costs and benefits of the final rule, as 
required by Executive Order 12866, and 
a preliminary regulatory flexibility 
analysis that examines the potential 
economic effects of this rule on small 
entities, as required by the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act. Based on the cost benefit 
analysis, we expect the rule to have 
little or no economic impact on small 
entities. C. The Paperwork Reduction Act HHS/CDC has determined that this final rule contains proposed information collections that are subject to review by 
the Office of Management and Budget 
(OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction 
Act of 1995 (PRA) (44 U.S.C. 3501Œ 
3520). A description of these proposed 
provisions is given below with an 
estimate of the annual reporting and 
recordkeeping burden. Included in the 
estimate is the time for reviewing 
instructions, searching existing data 
sources, gathering and maintaining the 
data needed, and completing and 
reviewing each collection of 
information. Comments are invited on 
the following subjects. •Whether the proposed collection of information is necessary for the proper 
performance of the functions of HHS/
CDC, including whether the information 
will have practical utility. •The accuracy of HHS/CDC™s estimate of the burden of the collection 
of information. •Ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be 
collected. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00076Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6965 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
•Ways to minimize the burden of the collection of information on respondents, including by using 
information technology. While HHS/CDC currently has approval to collect certain information 
concerning illnesses and travelers under 
OMB Control Numbers 0920Œ0134 
(Foreign Quarantine Regulations, 
expiration date 05/31/2019) and 0920Œ 
0488 (Restrictions on Interstate Travel of 
Persons, expiration date 05/31/2019), CDC is requesting updates to certain 
information collections within these 
control numbers. In another information collection request associated with this final rule, 
CDC is also requesting approval to 
require that airlines and vessels provide 
certain data elements to CDC, as 
described in proposed 71.4 and 71.5, for 
the purposes of contact tracing. This 
information is used to locate 
individuals, both passengers and 
crewmembers, who may have been 
exposed to a communicable disease 
during travel and to provide them with 
appropriate public health follow-up. Written comments should be received within 30 days of the publication of this 
final rule. Please send written 
comments to CDC Desk Officer, Office of 
Management and Budget, Washington, 
DC 20503 or by fax to (202) 395Œ5806. Proposed Projects (1) Foreign Quarantine Regulations (42 CFR part 71) (OMB Control No. 0920Œ0134)ŠNonmaterial/non- 
substantive changeŠNational Center for 
Emerging, and Zoonotic Infectious 
Diseases (NCEZID), Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC). (2) Restrictions on Interstate Travel of Persons (42 CFR part 70) (OMB Control 
No. 0920Œ0488)ŠNonmaterial/non- 
substantive changeŠNational Center for 
Emerging, and Zoonotic Infectious 
Diseases (NCEZID), Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC) (3) Airline and Vessel and Traveler Information Collection (42 CFR and 
71)ŠNew Information Collection 
RequestŠNational Center for Emerging, 
and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases 
(NCEZID), Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention (CDC). Description Section 361 of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act (42 U.S.C. 264) authorizes the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services to make and enforce 
regulations necessary to prevent the 
introduction, transmission, or spread of 
communicable diseases from foreign 
countries into the United States and 
interstate. Legislation and existing 
regulations governing foreign and interstate quarantine activities (42 CFR 
parts 70 and 71) authorize quarantine 
officers and other personnel to inspect 
and undertake necessary control 
measures in order to protect the public 
health. Currently, with the exception of 
the CDC™s Vessel Sanitation Program, 
inspections are performed only on those 
vessels and aircraft that report illness 
before arriving or when illness is 
discovered upon arrival. Other 
inspection agencies assist quarantine 
officers in public health risk assessment 
and management of persons, pets, and 
other importations of public health 
importance. These practices and 
procedures ensure protection against the 
introduction and spread of 
communicable diseases into the United 
States with a minimum of 
recordkeeping and reporting as well as 
a minimum of interference with trade 
and travel. The information collection 
burden is associated with these 
recordkeeping and reporting 
requirements. At present, HHS/CDC has approval from OMB to collect certain information 
and impose recordkeeping requirements 
related to foreign quarantine 
responsibilities under OMB Control 
Number 0920Œ0134 (expiration 05/31/ 
2019). The specific provisions within 42 
CFR part 71 that include information 
collection under are as follows: 42 CFR 71.21(a), (b), and (c) Report of death and illness. 42 CFR 71.33(c) Report of persons held in isolation or surveillance. 42 CFR 71.35 Report of death or illness on carrier during stay in port. 42 CFR 71.51 Dogs and cats. 42 CFR 71.52 Turtles, terrapins, tortoises. 42. CFR 71.56 African Rodents 
HHS/CDC has also used its authority under 42 CFR 71.32 to require importers to submit statements or documentation 
of non-infectiousness for those items 
that may constitute a public health risk 
if not rendered non-infectious. Finally, HHS/CDC has approval from OMB to collect from importers/filers 
certain documents and data elements to 
identify and clear HHS/CDC regulated 
imports via the Automated Commercial 
Environment and the International 
Trade Data System using the Document 
Imaging System and Partner 
Government Agency Message Sets. 
These CDC Partner Government Agency 
Message Sets are currently limited to: 
CDC PGA Message Set for Importing 
Cats and Dogs, CDC PGA Message Set 
for Importing African Rodents, CDC 
PGA Message Set for Importing African 
Rodent and All Family Viverridae 
Products. In this final rule, CDC is requesting approval from OMB for 4 non- substantive changes to OMB Control 
Number 0920Œ0134 Foreign Quarantine 
Regulations (42 CFR part 71): (1) Updating the definition of ‚‚ill person,™™ which relates to the illness 
reporting requirements under 42 CFR 
71.21(a), (b), and (c) for airlines and 
vessels arriving into the United States. 
CDC is updating the definition of ‚‚ill 
person™™ by implementing current 
practice with the anticipated effect of 
better facilitating identification of 
communicable diseases of concern and 
quarantinable communicable diseases 
aboard flights and maritime voyages to 
the United States, diseases such as 
measles, viral hemorrhagic fevers, active 
tuberculosis, and influenza caused by 
novel or re-emergent influenza viruses 
that are causing or have the potential to 
cause a pandemic. CDC is also including 
a provision to allow the Director to add 
new symptoms to the definition of ill 
person to respond to unknown 
communicable diseases that may emerge 
as future concerns. The final rule updates the current definition of ill person to better focus on 
the signs and symptoms of 
communicable diseases of public health 
concern and quarantinable 
communicable diseases. The changes 
define an ill person in the context of the 
medical resources available to the 
operator of an airline or vessel. CDC already requests from pilots in command of aircraft and commanders of 
vessels several of the symptoms 
included in the revised definition of ill 
person through publicly available 
guidance to airlines and vessels. 
Moreover, for airlines, the updated 
definition also better aligns with 
symptoms reporting guidelines 
published by ICAO in Note 1 to 
paragraph 8.15 of Annex 9 to the 
Convention on International Civil 
Aviation, and the definition of ‚‚acute 
gastroenteritis™™ is used by the WHO and 
is currently included in reporting guidance from CDC™s Vessel Sanitation 
Program. Therefore, CDC does not 
anticipate additional burden on airlines 
or vessel operators to respond to these 
information collections. (2) CDC is requesting a change in the title of the information collection 
pertaining to reports of death and illness 
from vessels to CDC. The former title is 
Radio Report of death or illnessŠillness 
reports from ships. CDC sought a change 
to remove ‚‚Radio™™ from the title. This 
change reflects the fact that reports to 
CDC primarily via means other than 
radio, such as the Maritime Illness and 
Death Reporting System, managed by 
CDC™s Vessel Sanitation Program. CDC VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00077Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6966 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
did not receive any public comments to this change, and it is therefore finalized 
as proposed. (3) CDC is seeking a change in the title of a specific information collection 
pertaining to reports of gastro-intestinal 
illness to CDC. CDC is updating the 
definition of ill person and is replacing the term ‚‚gastro-intestinal™™ with ‚‚acute 
gastroenteritis™™; therefore, the title 
change is requested to align with the 
definition. (4) CDC is seeking a change in title of respondents from ‚‚Maritime 
Conveyance Operator™™ to ‚‚Maritime 
Vessel Operator™™ and from ‚‚Airline Commander or Operator™™ to ‚‚Pilot in Command.™™ Table 1 below presents estimates of annual burden (in hours) associated 
with each reporting and recordkeeping 
requirement under this OMB control 
number, accounting for the rule 
changes. Description of Respondents. Respondents to this data collection 
include pilots in command of aircraft, 
maritime vessel operators, importers/ 
filers, and travelers/general public. The 
nature of the response to HHS/CDC 
dictates which forms are completed and 
by whom. The total requested burden 
hours are 82,779. There is no burden to respondents other than the time taken to complete the reports to CDC, maintain 
recordkeeping of illness aboard vessels 
and records of sickness or death in 
imported cats and dogs, as outlined in 
the table below. If a cat or dog is ill 
upon arrival, or dies prior to arrival, an 
exam is required, the initial exam fee 
may be between $100 and $200. Rabies 
testing on a dog that dies may be 
between $50 and $100. The expected 
number of ill or dead dogs arriving into 
the United States for which CDC may 
require an examination is estimated at 
less than 30 per year. TABLE1ŠESTIMATEDANNUALREPORTINGBURDEN0920Œ0134 Type of respondent Regulatory provision or form name No. of respondents No. of responses per respondent Average burden per response (in hours) Total burden hours Maritime Vessel Operators.........42 CFR 71.21(a) Report of illness or death from 
shipsŠMaritime Vessel Illness or Death Investiga-tion Form/Cumulative Influenza/Influenza-Like Illness 
(ILI) Form/Radio report or transcribed email.2,000 1 2/60 67 
Pilot in Command.......................42 CFR 71.21 (b) Death/Illness reports from aircraft....1,700 
1 2/60 57 
Maritime Vessel Operators.........42 CFR 71.21(c) (MIDRS) Acute Gastro-Enteritis re-
ports (24 and 4 hours before arrival).17,000 1 3/60 850 
Maritime Vessel Operators.........42 CFR 71.21 (c) Recordkeeping-Medical logs.............17,000 
1 3/60 850 
Isolated or Quarantined individ-uals.42 CFR 71.33 Report by persons in isolation or sur-veillance.11 1 3/60 1 
Maritime Vessel Operators.........42 CFR 71.35 Report of death/illness during stay in 
port.5 1 30/60 3 
Importer.......................................42 CFR 71.51(c)(1), (d)ŠValid Rabies Vaccination 
Certificates.245,310 1 15/60 61,328 
Importer.......................................CDC Form 75.37 Notice To Owners And Importers Of 
Dogs: Requirement for Dog Confinement.1,400 1 10/60 233 
Importer.......................................42 CFR 71.51(c)(i), (ii), and (iii) exemption criteria for 
the importation of a dog without a rabies vaccination 
certificate.43,290 1 15/60 10,823 
Importer.......................................42 CFR 71.51(c)(2), (d) Application for a Permit to Im-
port A Dog Inadequately Immunized Against Rabies.1,400 1 15/60 350 
Importer.......................................42 CFR 71.51(b) (3) Dogs/cats: Record of sickness or 
deaths.20 1 15/60 5 
Importer/Filer...............................42 CFR 71.51
_CDC Requested Data on Regulated Im-ports: Domestic Dogs and Cats (PGA Message Set).30,000 1 15/60 7,500 
Importer.......................................42 CFR 71.52(d) Turtle Importation Permits.................
5 1 30/60 3 
Importers.....................................42 CFR 71.55, 42 CFR 71.32 Dead BodiesŠDeath 
certificates.5 1 1 5 
Importer.......................................42 CFR 71.56 (a)(2) African RodentsŠRequest for ex-
emption.20 1 1 20 
Importer.......................................42 CFR 71.56(a)(iii) Appeal...........................................
2 1 1 2 
Importer/Filer...............................42 CFR 71.56 CDC Requested Data on Regulation Im-
ports: Live African Rodents (PGA Message Set).60 1 15/60 15 
Importer/Filer...............................42 CFR 71.32 Statements or documentation of non-in-
fectiousness.2,000 1 5/60 167 
Importer/Filer...............................42 CFR 71.56, 42 CFR 71.32 CDC Requested Data 
on Regulated Imports: Products of African Rodents; 
Products of all Family Viverridae (PGA Message 
Set).2,000 1 15/60 500 
Total......................................................................................................................................................................................82,779 
The estimates are based on experience to date with current recordkeeping and reporting requirements of 42 CFR part 
71, with additional burden included to account for the potential for increased 
reports of illness during an outbreak and 
for reports of disease that may have been missed by airlines or vessels and 
are reported to CDC after travel. Under this final rule, CDC is also requesting a nonmaterial/non- VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00078Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6967 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
substantive change to Restrictions on Interstate Travel of Persons (42 CFR part 
70) (OMB Control No. 0920Œ0488). The 
regulations at 42 CFR part 70 are 
intended to prevent the interstate spread 
of disease, and include a requirement 
that the master of vessel or person in 
charge of conveyance to report the 
occurrence on board of communicable 
disease. Under this regulation and 
control number, CDC has approval to 
collect the following information: •42 CFR 70.4 Report by the master of a vessel or person in charge of 
conveyance of the incidence of a 
communicable disease occurring while 
in interstate travel. Through this final rule, CDC is adding the provision 70.11 Report of death or 
illness onboard aircraft operated by 
airline, which specifies that the pilot in command of an aircraft operating on 
behalf of an airline who conducts a 
commercial passenger flight in interstate 
traffic under a regular schedule shall 
report as soon as practicable to HHS/ 
CDC the occurrence onboard of any 
deaths or ill persons among passengers 
or crew and take such measures as HHS/ 
CDC may direct to prevent the potential 
spread of the communicable disease. 
HHS/CDC notes that it is changing the 
existing regulatory requirement at 42 
CFR 70.4, which states that the master of a vessel or person in charge of any 
conveyance engaged in interstate traffic on which a case or suspected case of communicable disease develops shall, 
as soon as practicable, notify the local 
health authority. Under the final rule, pilots in command of an aircraft, operating on 
behalf of an airline, that submit the ill 
person or death report to HHS/CDC 
under new 70.11 will not be required to 
also submit a report to the local health 
authority under current 70.4. HHS/CDC 
will continue to share public health 
information with State and local health 
departments through electronic disease 
reporting networks. It is unlikely that 
HHS/CDC would request follow-up 
reports of illnesses that are reported to 
the local health authorities, unless there 
was an urgent public health need. 
Therefore, CDC does not anticipate any 
additional burden to the respondents; 
however, the accounting for burden in 
Table 2 will add 70.11 Report of death 
or illness onboard aircraft operated by 
airline. As a result of this final rule, CDC does not anticipate a change in total burden. 
CDC is instead allocating 95% of the 
reports of illness or death within the 
proposed 70.11 Report of death or 
illness onboard aircraft operated by 
airline. The remains 5% will remain within 70.4 Report by the master of a 
vessel or person in charge of conveyance of the incidence of a 
communicable disease occurring while in interstate travel, in the event that some reports are still made to State 
health authorities. In addition to the requirement to report directly to HHS/CDC, HHS/CDC is updating the definition of ‚‚ill person™™ 
for the purposes of illness reports to 
HHS/CDC in 42 CFR part 70. HHS/CDC 
has, as a matter of agency guidance, 
communicated with airlines that the 
same current set of required and 
requested signs and symptoms of 
disease, as well as any death, apply to 
domestic as well as international flights. 
This guidance is similar to that of the 
guidelines issued by ICAO under Note 
1 to paragraph 8.15 of Annex 9 to the 
Convention on International Civil 
Aviation. Therefore, the new proposed definition of ill person should not affect 
standard practice, and no change in 
burden is anticipated. Table 2 below presents estimates of annual burden (in hours) associated 
with each reporting and recordkeeping 
requirement under this OMB control 
number, accounting for the rule 
changes. Description of Respondents Respondents to this data collection include masters of vessels or persons in charge of conveyance and pilots in 
command of aircraft. TABLE2ŠESTIMATEDANNUALREPORTINGBURDEN0920Œ0488 Type of respondent Form name No. of respondents No. of responses per respondent Average burden per response (in hours) Total burden (in hours) Pilot in command........................42 CFR 70.11 Report of death or illness onboard air-
craft operated by airline.190 1 7/60 22 
Master of vessel or person in charge of conveyance.42 CFR 70.4 Report by the master of a vessel or per-son in charge of conveyance of the incidence of a communicable disease occurring while in interstate 
travel.10 1 7/60 1 
Total..........................................................................................................................
....200 ....................................23 
The total requested burden hours are 23. There is no burden to respondents other than the time taken to complete 
the reports. The estimates are based on 
experience to date with current 
recordkeeping and reporting 
requirements of 42 CFR part 70, and 
take into account the potential for 
additional burden from increased 
reports of illness during an outbreak and 
for reports of disease that may have 
been missed by respondents during 
travel and are reported to CDC by other 
means. Finally, under this final rule HHS/ CDC is requesting approval for a new 
information collection, Airline and 
Vessel and Traveler Information 
Collection (42 CFR part 71). This 
information collection request 
accompanies the codification of issuing 
orders to airlines and vessel operators 
for the provision to CDC of airline and 
vessel and traveler information (aka manifests) in the event that a 
quarantinable communicable disease or 
a communicable disease of public 
health concern, or a death caused by a 
quarantinable communicable disease or communicable disease of public health concern, occurs during travel to the 
United States and public health follow- 
up is warranted. These proposed 
provisions are found in 42 CFR 71.4 for 
airlines and 71.5 for vessels. The ordering of manifests from airlines and vessel operators arriving into the United States is an ongoing 
activity executed under CDC™s broad 
regulatory authority found at 42 CFR 
71.32 Persons, carriers, and things. To increase transparency with regard to 
CDC™s authorities and manifest order 
process, CDC is proposing specific VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00079Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6968 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
regulatory provisions that outline the particular data elements CDC requires to 
perform contact tracing investigations. 
As stated in the final rule, CDC is not 
mandating the collection of additional data. Only that if the airlines or 
maritime operators have the data 
elements listed in 71.4 and 71.5 in their possession, they must be provided to 
CDC within 24 hours. Table 3 below presents estimates of annual burden (in hours) associated 
with each reporting and recordkeeping 
requirement under this OMB control 
number, accounting for the final rule 
changes. Description of Respondents Respondents to this data collection include the Airline Medical Officer or Equivalent and a Computer and 
Information Systems Manager. TABLE3ŠESTIMATEOF
ANNUALBURDENAIRLINEAND
VESSELMANIFESTORDERS Type of respondent Form name No. of respondents No. of responses per respondent Average burden per response (in hours) Total burden (in hours) Airline Medical Officer or Equiva-lent/Computer and Information Systems Manager.International TB Manifest Template...............................67 1 360/60 402 
Airline Medical Officer or Equiva-lent/Computer and Information 
Systems Manager.International Non-TB Manifest Template.......................29 1 360/60 174 
Total..........................................................................................................................
....96 ....................................576 
The total requested burden hours included in this final rule is 576. There is no burden to respondents other than 
the time taken to complete the manifest 
information and send to CDC. The 
estimates are based on experience to 
date with current manifest order 
process. D. National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) HHS/CDC has determined that the amendments to 42 CFR parts 70 and 71 
will not have a significant impact on the 
human environment. E. Executive Order 12988: Civil Justice Reform HHS/CDC has reviewed this rule under Executive Order 12988 on Civil 
Justice Reform and determines that this 
final rule meets the standard in the 
Executive Order. F. Executive Order 13132: Federalism Under Executive Order 13132, a Federalism analysis is required if a rulemaking has Federalism 
implications, would limit or preempt 
State or local law, or impose substantial 
direct compliance costs on State or local 
governments. Under such 
circumstances, a Federal agency must 
consult with State and local officials. 
Federalism implications is defined as 
having substantial direct effects on State 
or local governments, on the 
relationship between the national 
government and the States, or on the 
distribution of power and 
responsibilities among the various 
levels of government. Under 42 U.S.C. 264(e), Federal public health regulations 
do not preempt State or local public health regulations, except in the event 
of a conflict with the exercise of Federal 
authority. Other than to restate this 
statutory provision, this rulemaking 
does not alter the relationship between 
the Federal government and State/local 
governments as set forth in 42 U.S.C. 
264. The longstanding provision on 
preemption in the event of a conflict 
with Federal authority (42 CFR 70.2) is 
left unchanged by this rulemaking. 
Additionally, there are no provisions in 
these regulations that impose direct 
compliance costs on State and local 
governments. Therefore, HHS/CDC 
believes that the rule does not warrant 
additional consultation under Executive 
Order 13132. G. The Plain Language Act of 2010 Under 63 FR 31883 (June 10, 1998), Executive Departments and Agencies are required to use plain language in all 
proposed and final rules. HHS/CDC 
received several comments suggesting 
that the proposed regulation was not 
written in plain language and was 
therefore difficult to understand. Prior 
to publication, this final rule was 
reviewed by specialists in health 
communication and education to ensure 
the content and intention, as well as 
substance, were clear and accurate. List of Subjects in 70.1, 70.5, 70.6, 70.10Œ70.18, 71.1, 71.2, 71.4, 71.5, 
71.12, 71.20, 71.29, 71.30, 71.36Œ71.39, 
71.63 Apprehension, Communicable diseases, Conditional release, CDC, Ill 
person, Isolation, Non-invasive, Public 
health emergency, Public health 
prevention measures, Qualifying stage, Quarantine, Quarantinable 
Communicable Disease. For the reasons discussed in the preamble, we amend 42 CFR parts 70 
and 71 as follows: PART 70ŠINTERSTATE QUARANTINE 1. The authority citation for part 70 continues to read as follows: Authority: Secs. 215 and 311 of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 216, 243) section 361Œ369, PHS Act, 
as amended (42 U.S.C. 264Œ272); 31 U.S.C. 
9701. 2. Amend §70.1 byŠ 
a. Adding in alphabetical order definitions for ‚‚Airline™™, ‚‚Apprehension™™, and ‚‚Communicable 
stage™™; b. Revising the definition of ‚‚Conditional release™™; c. Adding in alphabetical order a definitions for ‚‚Contaminated 
environment;™™ d. Revising the definition of ‚‚Conveyance™™; e. Adding in alphabetical order definitions for ‚‚Electronic or Internet- 
based monitoring™™ and ‚‚Ill person™™; f. Revising the definition of ‚‚Incubation period™™; g. Adding in alphabetical order a definition for ‚‚Indigent™™; h. Revising the definition of ‚‚Interstate traffic™™; i. Revising the definition of ‚‚Master or operator™™; j. Adding in alphabetical order definitions for ‚‚Medical examination™™, 
‚‚Medical reviewer™™, ‚‚Non-invasive™™, 
‚‚Precommunicable stage™™, ‚‚Public 
health emergency™™, ‚‚Public health VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00080Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6969 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
prevention measures™™, ‚‚Qualifying stage™™, ‚‚Reasonably believed to be 
infected, as applied to an individual™™, 
and ‚‚Representatives™™. The additions and revisions read as follows: §70.1General definitions. 
Airline means any air carrier or foreign air carrier providing air 
transportation as that term is defined in 
49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(2), (a)(5), and (a)(21). Apprehension means the temporary taking into custody of an individual or 
group for purposes of determining 
whether Federal quarantine, isolation, 
or conditional release is warranted. * * * * * Communicable stage means the stage during which an infectious agent may be transmitted either directly or 
indirectly from an infected individual to 
another individual. Conditional release means the temporary supervision by a public 
health official (or designee) of an 
individual or group, who may have been 
exposed to a quarantinable 
communicable disease to determine the 
risk of disease spread and includes 
public health supervision through in- 
person visits, telephone, or through 
electronic or Internet-based monitoring. Contaminated environment means the presence of an infectious agent on a 
surface, including on inanimate articles, 
or in a substance, including food, water, 
or in the air. Conveyance means an aircraft, train, road vehicle, vessel (as defined in this 
section) or other means of transport, 
including military. * * * * * Electronic or Internet-based monitoring means mechanisms or technologies allowing for the temporary public health supervision of an 
individual under conditional release 
and may include communication 
through electronic mail, SMS texts, 
video or audio conference, webcam 
technologies, integrated voice-response 
systems, entry of information into a 
Web-based forum, wearable tracking 
technologies, and other mechanisms or 
technologies as determined by the 
Director or supervising health authority. Ill person means an individual who: 
(1) Has a fever (a measured temperature of 100.4 °F [38 °C] or 
greater, or feels warm to the touch, or 
gives a history of feeling feverish) 
accompanied by one or more of the 
following: Skin rash, difficulty 
breathing, persistent cough, decreased 
consciousness or confusion of recent 
onset, new unexplained bruising or 
bleeding (without previous injury), persistent diarrhea, persistent vomiting 
(other than air sickness), headache with 
stiff neck, appears obviously unwell; or (2) Has a fever that has persisted for more than 48 hours; or (3) Has symptoms or other indications of communicable disease, as the CDC 
may announce through posting of a 
notice in the Federal Register. Incubation period means the time from the moment of exposure to an 
infectious agent that causes a 
communicable disease until signs and 
symptoms of the communicable disease 
appear in the individual or, if signs and 
symptoms do not appear, the latest date 
signs and symptoms could reasonably 
be expected to appear. For a 
quarantinable communicable disease, 
incubation period means the 
precommunicable stage. Indigent means an individual whose annual family income is below 200% of 
the applicable poverty guidelines 
updated periodically in the Federal 
Register by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services under the 
authority of 42 U.S.C. 9902(2) or, if no 
income is earned, liquid assets totaling 
less than 15% of the applicable poverty 
guidelines. Interstate traffic (1) Means: 
(i) The movement of any conveyance or the transportation of persons or 
property, including any portion of such 
movement or transportation that is 
entirely within a State or possessionŠ (ii) From a point of origin in any State or possession to a point of destination 
in any other State or possession; or (iii) Between a point of origin and a point of destination in the same State or 
possession but through any other State, 
possession, or contiguous foreign 
country. (2) Interstate traffic does not include the following: (i) The movement of any conveyance which is solely for the purpose of 
unloading persons or property 
transported from a foreign country, or 
loading persons or property for 
transportation to a foreign country. (ii) The movement of any conveyance which is solely for the purpose of 
effecting its repair, reconstruction, 
rehabilitation, or storage. * * * * * Master or operator with respect to a vessel, means the sea crew member with responsibility for vessel operation and 
navigation, or a similar individual with 
responsibility for a conveyance. 
Consistent with the definition of 
‚‚operate™™ in 14 CFR 1.1, ‚‚operator™™ 
means, with respect to aircraft, any 
person who uses, causes to use, or 
authorizes to use an aircraft, for the purpose (except as provided in 14 CFR 91.13) of air navigation including the 
piloting of an aircraft, with or without 
the right of legal control (as owner, 
lessee, or otherwise). Medical examination means the assessment of an individual by an 
authorized and licensed health worker 
to determine the individual™s health 
status and potential public health risk to 
others and may include the taking of a 
medical history, a physical examination, 
and collection of human biological 
samples for laboratory testing as may be 
needed to diagnose or confirm the 
presence or extent of infection with a 
quarantinable communicable disease. Medical reviewer means a physician, nurse practitioner, or similar medical 
professional qualified in the diagnosis 
and treatment of infectious diseases 
who is appointed by the Secretary or 
Director to conduct medical reviews 
under this part and may include an HHS 
or CDC employee, provided that the 
employee differs from the CDC official 
who issued the Federal order for 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release. Non-invasive means procedures conducted by an authorized public 
health worker (i.e., an individual with education and training in the field of 
public health) or another individual 
with suitable public health training and 
includes the visual examination of the 
ear, nose, and mouth; temperature 
assessments using an ear, oral, 
cutaneous, or noncontact thermometer, 
or thermal imaging; and other 
procedures not involving the puncture 
or incision of the skin or insertion of an 
instrument or foreign material into the 
body or a body cavity excluding the ear, 
nose, and mouth. * * * * * Precommunicable stage means the stage beginning upon an individual™s earliest opportunity for exposure to an 
infectious agent and ending upon the 
individual entering or reentering the 
communicable stage of the disease or, if 
the individual does not enter the 
communicable stage, the latest date at 
which the individual could reasonably 
be expected to have the potential to 
enter or reenter the communicable stage. Public health emergency as used in this part means: (1) Any communicable disease event as determined by the Director with 
either documented or significant 
potential for regional, national, or 
international communicable disease 
spread or that is highly likely to cause 
death or serious illness if not properly 
controlled; or (2) Any communicable disease event described in a declaration by the VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00081Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6970 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
Secretary pursuant to 319(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
247d (a)); or (3) Any communicable disease event the occurrence of which is notified to 
the World Health Organization, in 
accordance with Articles 6 and 7 of the 
International Health Regulations, as one 
that may constitute a Public Health 
Emergency of International Concern; or (4) Any communicable disease event the occurrence of which is determined 
by the Director-General of the World 
Health Organization, in accordance with 
Article 12 of the International Health 
Regulations, to constitute a Public 
Health Emergency of International 
Concern; or (5) Any communicable disease event for which the Director-General of the 
World Health Organization, in 
accordance with Articles 15 or 16 of the 
International Health Regulations, has 
issued temporary or standing 
recommendations for purposes of 
preventing or promptly detecting the 
occurrence or reoccurrence of the 
communicable disease. Public health prevention measures means the assessment of an individual 
through non-invasive procedures and 
other means, such as observation, 
questioning, review of travel 
documents, records review, and other 
non-invasive means, to determine the 
individual™s health status and potential 
public health risk to others. Qualifying stage is statutorily defined (42 U.S.C. 264(d)(2)) to mean: (1) The communicable stage of a quarantinable communicable disease; or (2) The precommunicable stage of the quarantinable communicable disease, 
but only if the quarantinable 
communicable disease would be likely 
to cause a public health emergency if 
transmitted to other individuals. * * * * * Reasonably believed to be infected, as applied to an individual, means specific articulable facts upon which a public 
health officer could reasonably draw the 
inference that an individual has been 
exposed, either directly or indirectly, to 
the infectious agent that causes a 
quarantinable communicable disease, as 
through contact with an infected person 
or an infected person™s bodily fluids, a 
contaminated environment, or through 
an intermediate host or vector, and that 
as a consequence of the exposure, the 
individual is or may be harboring in the 
body the infectious agent of that 
quarantinable communicable disease. Representatives means a physician, nurse practitioner, or similar medical 
professional qualified in the diagnosis 
and treatment of infectious diseases, and an attorney who is knowledgeable 
of public health practices, who are 
appointed by the Secretary or Director 
and may include HHS or CDC 
employees, to assist an indigent 
individual under Federal quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release with a 
medical review under this part. * * * * * Secretary means the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) or any other officer or employee of that 
Department to whom the authority 
involved has been delegated. * * * * * 3. Revise §70.5 to read as follows: 
§70.5Requirements relating to travelers 
under a Federal order of isolation, 
quarantine, or conditional release. (a) The following provisions are applicable to any individual under a Federal order of isolation, quarantine, or 
conditional release with regard to a 
quarantinable communicable disease or 
to any individual meeting the 
requirements of paragraph (d), (e), or (f) 
of this section: (1) Except as specified under the terms of a Federal conditional release 
order, no such individual shall travel in 
interstate traffic or from one State or 
U.S. territory to another without a 
written travel permit issued by the 
Director. (2) Requests for a travel permit must state the reasons why the travel is being 
requested, mode of transportation, the 
places or individuals to be visited, the 
precautions, if any, to be taken to 
prevent the potential transmission or 
spread of the communicable disease, 
and other information as determined 
necessary by the Director to assess the 
individual™s health condition and 
potential for communicable disease 
spread to others. (3) The Director will consider all requests for a permit and, taking into 
consideration the risk of introduction, 
transmission, or spread of the 
communicable disease, may condition 
the permit upon compliance with such 
precautionary measures as the Director 
shall prescribe. The Director shall 
respond to a request for a permit within 
5 business days. (4) An individual to whom a permit has been issued shall retain it in his/her 
possession throughout the course of his/ 
her authorized travel and comply with 
all conditions prescribed therein, 
including presentation of the permit to 
the operators of conveyances, as 
required by its terms. (5) An individual who has had his/her request for a permit denied, or who has 
had a travel permit suspended or revoked, may submit a written appeal to the Director (excluding the CDC official 
who denied, suspended, or revoked the 
permit). The appeal must be in writing, 
state the factual basis for the appeal, and 
be submitted to the Director (excluding 
the CDC official who denied, 
suspended, or revoked the permit) 
within 10 calendar days of the denial, 
suspension, or revocation of the permit. 
The Director (excluding the CDC official 
who denied, suspended, or revoked the 
permit) will issue a written response to 
the appeal within 3 business days, 
which shall constitute final agency 
action. (b) The operator of any conveyance operating in interstate traffic shall not: (1) Accept for transportation any individual whom the operator knows, or 
reasonably should know, to be under a 
Federal order of isolation, quarantine, or 
conditional release, unless such an 
individual presents a permit issued by 
the Director or a copy of the Federal 
conditional release order authorizing 
such travel; (2) Transport any individual whom the operator knows, or reasonably 
should know, to be under a Federal 
order of isolation, quarantine, or 
conditional release in violation of any of 
the terms or conditions prescribed in 
the travel permit or conditional release 
order issued by the Director. (c) Whenever a conveyance operating in interstate traffic transports an individual under a Federal order or 
travel permit, the Director may require 
that the operator of the conveyance 
submit the conveyance to inspection, 
sanitary measures, and other measures, 
as the Director deems necessary to 
prevent the possible spread of 
communicable disease. (d) The Director may additionally apply the provisions in paragraphs (a) 
through (c) of this section to individuals 
traveling entirely intrastate and to 
conveyances that transport such 
individuals upon the request of a State 
or local health authority of jurisdiction. 
The Director shall consider the State or 
local health authority™s request for 
assistance and taking into consideration 
the risk of introduction, transmission, or 
spread of the communicable disease, 
grant or deny, in his/her discretion, the 
request for assistance. (e) The Director may additionally apply the provisions in paragraphs (a) 
through of this section (c) to individuals 
traveling interstate or entirely intrastate 
and to conveyances that transport such 
individuals whenever the Director 
makes a determination under 42 CFR 
70.2 that based on the existence of 
inadequate local control such measures 
are needed to prevent the spread of any VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00082Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6971 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
of the communicable diseases from such State or U.S. territory to any other State 
or U.S. territory. (f) The Director may additionally apply the provisions in paragraphs (a) 
through (c) of this section to individuals 
under a State or local order, or written 
agreement, for quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release and to conveyances 
that may transport such individuals, 
upon the request of a State or local 
health authority of jurisdiction or 
whenever the Director makes a 
determination of inadequate local 
control under 42 CFR 70.2. The Director 
shall consider the State or local health 
authority™s request for assistance and 
taking into consideration the risk of 
introduction, transmission, or spread of 
the communicable disease, grant or 
deny, in his/her discretion, the request 
for assistance. (g) The Director may exempt individuals and non-public 
conveyances, such as ambulances, air 
ambulance flights, or private vehicles, 
from the requirements of this section. 4. Revise §70.6 to read as follows: 
§70.6Apprehension and detention of 
persons with quarantinable communicable 
diseases. (a) The Director may authorize the apprehension, medical examination, quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release of any individual for the purpose 
of preventing the introduction, 
transmission, and spread of 
quarantinable communicable diseases, 
as specified by Executive Order, based 
upon a finding that: (1) The individual is reasonably believed to be infected with a 
quarantinable communicable disease in 
a qualifying stage and is moving or 
about to move from a State into another 
State; or (2) The individual is reasonably believed to be infected with a 
quarantinable communicable disease in 
a qualifying stage and constitutes a 
probable source of infection to other 
individuals who may be moving from a 
State into another State. (b) The Director will arrange for adequate food and water, appropriate 
accommodation, appropriate medical 
treatment, and means of necessary 
communication for individuals who are 
apprehended or held in quarantine or 
isolation under this part. 5. Add §§70.10 through 70.18 to read 
as follows: Sec. * * * * * 70.10Public health prevention measures to 
detect communicable disease. 70.11Report of death or illness onboard 
aircraft operated by an airline. 70.12Medical examinations. 
70.13Payment for care and treatment. 

70.14Requirements relating to the issuance 
of a Federal order for quarantine, isolation, or conditional release. 70.15Mandatory reassessment of a Federal 
order for quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release. 70.16Medical review of a Federal order for 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release. 70.17Administrative records relating to 
Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release. 70.18Penalties. 
§70.10Public health prevention measures 
to detect communicable disease. (a) The Director may conduct public health prevention measures at U.S. airports, seaports, railway stations, bus 
terminals, and other locations where 
individuals may gather to engage in 
interstate travel, through non-invasive 
procedures determined appropriate by 
the Director to detect the presence of 
communicable diseases. (b) As part of the public health prevention measures, the Director may 
require individuals to provide contact 
information such as U.S. and foreign 
addresses, telephone numbers, email 
addresses, and other contact 
information, as well as information 
concerning their intended destination, 
health status, known or possible 
exposure history, and travel history. §70.11Report of death or illness onboard 
aircraft operated by an airline. (a) The pilot in command of an aircraft operated by an airline who is conducting a commercial passenger 
flight in interstate traffic under a regular 
schedule shall report as soon as 
practicable to the Director the 
occurrence onboard of any deaths or the 
presence of ill persons among 
passengers or crew and take such 
measures as the Director may direct to 
prevent the potential spread of the 
communicable disease, provided that 
such measures do not affect the 
airworthiness of the aircraft or the safety 
of flight operations. (b) The pilot in command of an aircraft operated by an airline who 
reports in accordance with paragraph (a) 
of this section shall be deemed to satisfy 
the reporting obligation under 42 CFR 
70.4. §70.12Medical examinations. 
(a) The Director may require an individual to undergo a medical 
examination as part of a Federal order 
for quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release for a quarantinable 
communicable disease. (b) The Director shall promptly arrange for the medical examination to be conducted when one is required 
under this section and shall as part of 
the Federal order advise the individual 
that the medical examination shall be 
conducted by an authorized and 
licensed health worker, and with prior 
informed consent. (c) As part of the medical examination, the Director may require 
an individual to provide information 
and undergo such testing as may be 
reasonably necessary to diagnose or 
confirm the presence or extent of 
infection with a quarantinable 
communicable disease. (d) Individuals reasonably believed to be infected based on the results of a 
medical examination may be isolated, or 
if such results are inconclusive or 
unavailable, individuals may be 
quarantined or conditionally released in 
accordance with this part. §70.13Payment for care and treatment. 
(a) The Director may authorize payment for the care and treatment of 
individuals subject to medical 
examination, quarantine, isolation, and 
conditional release, subject to 
paragraphs (b) through (h) of this 
section. (b) Payment for care and treatment shall be in the CDC™s sole discretion and 
subject to the availability of 
appropriations. (c) Payment shall be secondary to the obligation of the United States or any 
third-party (i.e., any State or local governmental entity, private insurance 
carrier, or employer), under any other 
law or contractual agreement, to pay for 
such care and treatment, and shall be 
paid by the Director only after all third- 
party payers have made payment in 
satisfaction of their obligations. (d) Payment may include costs for providing ambulance or other medical 
transportation when such services are 
deemed necessary by the Director for 
the individual™s care and treatment. (e) Payment shall be limited to those amounts the hospital, medical facility, 
or medical transportation service would 
customarily bill the Medicare system 
using the International Classification of 
Diseases, Clinical Modification (ICDŒ 
CM), and relevant regulations 
promulgated by the Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services in 
existence at the time of billing. (f) For quarantinable communicable diseases, payment shall be limited to 
costs for services and items reasonable 
and necessary for the care and treatment 
of the individual or group for the time 
period beginning when the Director 
refers the individual or group to the 
hospital or medical facility and ends 
when, as determined by the Director, VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00083Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6972 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
the period of apprehension, quarantine, isolation, or conditional release expires. (g) For diseases other than those described in paragraph (f) of this 
section, such payment shall be limited 
to costs for services and items 
reasonable and necessary for care and 
treatment of the individual for the time 
period that begins when the Director 
refers the individual to the hospital or 
medical facility and ends when the 
individual™s condition is diagnosed, as 
determined by the Director, as an illness 
other than a quarantinable 
communicable disease. (h) For ambulance or other medical transportation, payment shall be limited 
to the costs for such services and other 
items reasonable and necessary for the 
individual™s safe medical transport. §70.14Requirements relating to the 
issuance of a Federal order for quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release. (a) A Federal order authorizing quarantine, isolation, or conditional release shall be in writing, signed by the 
Director, and contain the following 
information: (1) The identity of the individual or group subject to the order; (2) The location of the quarantine or isolation or, in the case of conditional 
release, the entity to who and means by 
which the individual shall report for 
public health supervision; (3) An explanation of the factual basis underlying the Director™s reasonable 
belief that the individual is in the 
qualifying stage of a quarantinable 
communicable disease; (4) An explanation of the factual basis underlying the Director™s reasonable 
belief that the individual is moving or 
about to move from one State into 
another or constitutes a probable source 
of infection to others who may be 
moving from one State into another; (5) An explanation that the Federal order will be reassessed no later than 72 
hours after it has been served and an 
explanation of the medical review of the 
Federal order pursuant to this part, 
including the right to request a medical 
review, present witnesses and testimony 
at the medical review, and to be 
represented at the medical review by 
either an advocate (e.g., an attorney, family member, or physician) at the 
individual™s own expense, or, if 
indigent, to have representatives 
appointed at the government™s expense; (6) An explanation of the criminal penalties for violating a Federal order of 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release; and (7) An explanation that if a medical examination is required as part of the 
Federal order that the examination will be conducted by an authorized and 
licensed health worker, and with prior 
informed consent. (b) A Federal order authorizing quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release shall be served on the individual 
no later than 72 hours after the 
individual has been apprehended, 
except that the Federal order may be 
published or posted in a conspicuous 
location if the Federal order is 
applicable to a group of individuals and 
individual service would be 
impracticable. (c) The Director shall arrange for translation or interpretation services of 
the Federal order as needed. (d) Nothing in this section shall affect the constitutional or statutory rights of 
individuals to obtain judicial review of 
their Federal detention. §70.15 Mandatoryreassessment of a 
Federal order for quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release. (a) The Director (excluding the CDC official who issued the quarantine, isolation, or conditional release order) 
shall reassess the need to continue the 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release of an individual no later than 72 
hours after the service of the Federal 
order. (b) As part of the reassessment, the Director (excluding the CDC official 
who issued the quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release order) shall review 
all records considered in issuing the 
Federal order, including travel records, 
records evidencing exposure or 
infection with a quarantinable 
communicable disease, as well as any 
relevant new information. (c) As part of the reassessment, and where applicable, the Director 
(excluding the CDC official who issued 
the quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release order) shall consider and make 
a determination regarding whether less 
restrictive alternatives would 
adequately serve to protect the public 
health. (d) At the conclusion of the reassessment, the Director (excluding 
the CDC official who issued the 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release order) shall promptly issue and 
serve a written Federal order directing 
that the quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release be continued, 
modified, or rescinded. (e) In the event that the Director orders that the quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release be continued or 
modified, the written Federal order 
shall explain the process for requesting 
a medical review under this part. (f) The Director™s written Federal order shall be promptly served on the individual, except that the Federal order 
may be served by publication or by 
posting in a conspicuous location if the 
Federal order is applicable to a group of 
individuals and individual service 
would be impracticable. (g) The Director shall arrange for translation or interpretation services of 
the Federal order as needed. §70.16Medical review of a Federal order 
for quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release. (a) The Director shall, as soon as practicable, arrange for a medical review upon a request by an individual under 
Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release. (b) A request for a medical review may only occur after the Director™s 
mandatory reassessment under section 
70.15 and following the service of a 
Federal order continuing or modifying 
the quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release. (c) The medical review shall be for the purpose of ascertaining whether the 
Director has a reasonable belief that the 
individual is infected with a 
quarantinable communicable disease in 
a qualifying stage. (d) The Director shall notify the individual in writing of the time and 
place of the medical review. (e) The Director (excluding the CDC official who issued the quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release order) 
shall designate a medical reviewer to 
review the medical or other evidence 
presented at the review, make medical 
or other findings of fact, and issue a 
recommendation concerning whether 
the Federal order for quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release should 
be rescinded, continued, or modified. (f) The individual under Federal quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release may authorize an advocate (e.g., 
an attorney, family member, or 
physician) at his or her own expense to 
submit medical or other evidence and, 
in the medical reviewer™s discretion, be 
allowed to present a reasonable number 
of medical experts. The Director 
(excluding the CDC official who issued 
the quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release order) shall appoint 
representatives at government expense 
to assist the individual for purposes of 
the medical review upon a request and 
certification, under penalty of perjury, 
by that individual that he or she is 
indigent. (g) Prior to the convening of the review, the individual or his/her 
authorized advocate or representatives 
shall be provided a reasonable 
opportunity to examine the available 
medical and other records involved in VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00084Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6973 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
the medical review that pertain to that individual. (h) The Director shall take such measures that he/she determines to be 
reasonably necessary to allow an 
individual under Federal quarantine or 
isolation to communicate with any 
authorized advocate or representatives 
in such a manner as to prevent the 
possible spread of the quarantinable 
communicable disease. (i) The medical reviewer may order a medical examination of an individual 
when, in the medical reviewer™s 
professional judgment, such an 
examination would assist in assessing 
the individual™s medical condition. (j) As part of the review, and where applicable, the medical reviewer shall 
consider and accept into the record 
evidence concerning whether less 
restrictive alternatives would 
adequately serve to protect public 
health. (k) The medical review shall be conducted by telephone, audio or video 
conference, or through other means that 
the medical reviewer determines in his/ her discretion are practicable for allowing the individual under 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release to participate in the medical 
review. (l) At the conclusion of the review, the medical reviewer shall, based upon 
his or her review of the facts and other 
evidence made available during the 
medical review, issue a written report to the Director (excluding the CDC official 
who issued the quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release order) concerning 
whether, in the medical reviewer™s 
professional judgment, the Federal 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release should be rescinded, continued, 
or modified. The written report shall 
include a determination regarding 
whether less restrictive alternatives 
would adequately serve to protect 
public health. The written report shall 
be served on the individual and the 
individual™s authorized advocate or 
representatives. (m) The Director (excluding the CDC official who issued the quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release order) 
shall, as soon as practicable, review the 
written report and any objections that 
may be submitted by the individual or 
the individual™s authorized advocate or 
representatives that contest the findings 
and recommendation contained in the 
medical reviewer™s written report. Upon 
conclusion of the review, the Director 
(excluding the CDC official who issued 
the quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release order) shall promptly issue a 
written Federal order directing that the 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional release be continued, modified, or 
rescinded. In the event that the Director 
(excluding the CDC official who issued 
the quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release order) continues or modifies the 
Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release, the Director™s 
written order shall include a statement 
that the individual may request that the 
Director rescind the Federal quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release, but 
based only on a showing of significant, 
new or changed facts or medical 
evidence that raise a genuine issue as to 
whether the individual should continue 
to be subject to Federal quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release. The 
written Federal order shall be promptly 
served on the individual and the 
individual™s authorized advocate or 
representatives, except that the Federal 
order may be served by publication or 
by posting in a conspicuous location if 
applicable to a group of individuals and 
individual service would be 
impracticable. (n) The Director™s written order shall not constitute final agency action until 
it has been served on the individual and 
the individual™s authorized advocate or 
representatives, or alternatively, if 
applicable to a group of individuals and 
individual service would be 
impracticable, it is published or posted. (o) The Director (excluding the CDC official who issued the quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release order) 
may order the consolidation of one or 
more medical reviews if the number of 
individuals or other factors makes the 
holding of individual medical reviews 
impracticable. (p) The Director may issue additional instructions as may be necessary or 
desirable governing the conduct of 
medical reviews. (q) The Director shall arrange for translation or interpretation services as 
needed for purposes of this section. §70.17Administrative records relating to 
Federal quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release. (a) The administrative record of an individual under Federal quarantine, isolation, or conditional release shall, 
where applicable, consist of the 
following: (1) The Federal order authorizing quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release, including any subsequent 
Federal orders continuing or modifying 
the quarantine, isolation or conditional 
release; (2) Records of any available medical, laboratory, or other epidemiologic 
information that are in the agency™s 
possession and that were considered in 
issuing the Federal quarantine, isolation, or conditional release order, or any subsequent Federal orders; (3) Records submitted by the individual under quarantine, isolation, 
or conditional release, or by an 
authorized advocate or representatives, 
as part of a request for rescission of the 
Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release or as part of a 
medical review; (4) The written findings and report of the medical reviewer, including any 
transcripts of the medical review and 
any written objections submitted by the 
individual under Federal quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release, or by 
any authorized advocate or 
representatives; (b) An individual subject to a Federal public health order shall upon request 
be served with a copy of his or her own 
administrative record in its entirety. §70.18Penalties. 
(a) Persons in violation of this part are subject to a fine of no more than 
$100,000 if the violation does not result 
in a death or one year in jail, or both, 
or a fine of no more than $250,000 if the 
violation results in a death or one year 
in jail, or both, or as otherwise provided 
by law. (b) Violations by organizations are subject to a fine of no more than 
$200,000 per event if the violation does 
not result in a death or $500,000 per 
event if the violation results in a death 
or as otherwise provided by law. PART 71ŠFOREIGN QUARANTINE 6. The authority citation for part 71 continues to read as follows: Authority: Secs. 215 and 311 of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 216, 243) section 361Œ369, PHS Act, 
as amended (42 U.S.C. 264Œ272). 7. Amend §71.1, paragraph (b), byŠ 
a. Adding in alphabetical order definitions for ‚‚Airline™™ and 
‚‚Apprehension™™; b. Revising the definition of ‚‚Commander™™; c. Adding in alphabetical order definitions for ‚‚Conditional release™™, 
‚‚Contaminated environment™™, and ‚‚Electronic or Internet-based 
monitoring™™; d. Revising the definition of ‚‚Ill person™™; e. Adding in alphabetical order a definition for ‚‚Indigent™™; f. Revising the definition of ‚‚International voyage™™; g. Adding in alphabetical order definitions for ‚‚Master or operator™™, 
‚‚Medical examination™™, ‚‚Medical 
reviewer™™, ‚‚Non-invasive™™, ‚‚Public 
health prevention measures™™, 
‚‚Representatives™™, and ‚‚Secretary™™. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00085Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6974 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
The additions and revisions read as follows: §71.1General definitions. 
* * * * * (b) *** 
Airline means any air carrier or foreign air carrier providing air transportation, as that term is defined in 
49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(2), (a)(5), and (a)(21). Apprehension means the temporary taking into custody of an individual or 
group for purposes of determining 
whether quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release is warranted. * * * * * Commander means the pilot in command of an aircraft as defined in 14 CFR 1.1. * * * * * Conditional release means surveillance as defined under this part and includes public health supervision 
through in-person visits by a health 
official or designee, telephone, or 
through any electronic or internet-based 
means as determined by the Director. Contaminated environment means the presence of an infectious agent on a 
surface, including on inanimate articles, 
or in a substance, including food, water, 
or in the air. * * * * * Electronic or internet-based monitoring means mechanisms or technologies allowing for the temporary public health supervision of an 
individual under conditional release 
and may include communication 
through electronic mail, SMS texts, 
video or audio conference, webcam 
technologies, integrated voice-response 
systems, entry of information into a 
web-based forum, wearable tracking 
technologies, and other mechanisms or 
technologies as determined by the 
Director. Ill person means an individual: (i) Who if onboard an aircraft: 
(A) Has a fever (a measured temperature of 100.4 °F [38 °C] or greater, or feels warm to the touch, or 
gives a history of feeling feverish) 
accompanied by one or more of the 
following: Skin rash, difficulty 
breathing, persistent cough, decreased 
consciousness or confusion of recent 
onset, new unexplained bruising or 
bleeding (without previous injury), 
persistent diarrhea, persistent vomiting 
(other than air sickness), headache with 
stiff neck, appears obviously unwell; or (B) Has a fever that has persisted for more than 48 hours; or (C) Has symptoms or other indications of communicable disease, as the 
Director may announce through posting 
of a notice in the Federal Register. (ii) Who if onboard a vessel: (A) Has a fever (a measured temperature of 100.4 °F [38 °C] or greater; or feels warm to the touch; or 
gives a history of feeling feverish) 
accompanied by one or more of the 
following: Skin rash, difficulty 
breathing or suspected or confirmed 
pneumonia, persistent cough or cough 
with bloody sputum, decreased 
consciousness or confusion of recent 
onset, new unexplained bruising or 
bleeding (without previous injury), 
persistent vomiting (other than sea 
sickness), headache with stiff neck; or (B) Has a fever that has persisted for more than 48 hours; or (C) Has acute gastroenteritis, which means either diarrhea, defined as three 
or more episodes of loose stools in a 24- 
hour period or what is above normal for 
the individual, or vomiting 
accompanied by one or more of the 
following: One or more episodes of 
loose stools in a 24-hour period, 
abdominal cramps, headache, muscle 
aches, or fever (temperature of 100.4 °F 
[38 °C] or greater); or (D) Has symptoms or other indications of communicable disease, as 
the Director may announce through 
posting of a notice in the Federal 
Register. Indigent means an individual whose annual family income is below 200% of 
the applicable poverty guidelines 
updated periodically in the Federal 
Register by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services under the 
authority of 42 U.S.C. 9902(2) or, if no 
income is earned, liquid assets totaling 
less than 15% of the applicable poverty 
guidelines. * * * * * International voyage means: (i) In the case of a carrier, a voyage between ports or airports of more than one country, or a voyage between ports 
or airports of the same country if the 
ship or aircraft stopped in any other 
country on its voyage; or (ii) In the case of a person, a voyage involving entry into a country other 
than the country in which that person 
begins his/her voyage. * * * * * Master or operator with respect to a vessel, means the sea crew member with responsibility for vessel operation and 
navigation, or a similar individual with 
responsibility for a carrier. Consistent 
with the definition of ‚‚operate™™ in 14 
CFR 1.1, ‚‚operator™™ means, with respect 
to aircraft, any person who uses, causes 
to use or authorizes to use aircraft, for 
the purpose (except as provided in 14 
CFR 91.13) of air navigation including 
the piloting of aircraft, with or without the right of legal control (as owner, 
lessee, or otherwise). Medical examination means the assessment of an individual by an 
authorized and licensed health worker 
to determine the individual™s health 
status and potential public health risk to 
others and may include the taking of a 
medical history, a physical examination, 
and collection of human biological 
samples for laboratory testing as may be 
needed to diagnose or confirm the 
presence or extent of infection with a 
quarantinable communicable disease. Medical reviewer means a physician, nurse practitioner, or similar medical 
professional qualified in the diagnosis 
and treatment of infectious diseases 
who is appointed by the Secretary or 
Director to conduct medical reviews 
under this part and may include an HHS 
or CDC employee, provided that the 
employee differs from the CDC official 
who issued the Federal order for 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release. * * * * * Non-invasive means procedures conducted by an authorized public health worker (i.e., an individual with education and training in the field of 
public health) or another individual 
with suitable public health training and 
includes the visual examination of the 
ear, nose, and mouth; temperature 
assessments using an ear, oral, 
cutaneous, or noncontact thermometer, 
or thermal imaging; and other 
procedures not involving the puncture 
or incision of the skin or insertion of an 
instrument or foreign material into the 
body or a body cavity excluding the ear, 
nose, and mouth. * * * * * Public health prevention measures means the assessment of an individual through non-invasive procedures and 
other means, such as observation, 
questioning, review of travel 
documents, records review, and other 
non-invasive means, to determine the 
individual™s health status and potential 
public health risk to others. Representatives means a physician, nurse practitioner, or similar medical 
professional qualified in the diagnosis 
and treatment of infectious diseases, 
and an attorney who is knowledgeable 
of public health practices, who are 
appointed by the Secretary or Director 
and may include HHS or CDC 
employees, to assist an indigent 
individual under Federal quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release with a 
medical review under this part. * * * * * Secretary means the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) or VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00086Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6975 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
any other officer or employee of that Department to whom the authority 
involved has been delegated. * * * * * 8. Revise §71.2 to read as follows: 
§71.2Penalties. 
(a) Persons in violation of this part are subject to a fine of no more than $100,000 if the violation does not result 
in a death or one year in jail, or both, 
or a fine of no more than $250,000 if the 
violation results in a death or one year 
in jail, or both, or as otherwise provided 
by law. (b) Violations by organizations 
are subject to a fine of no more than 
$200,000 per event if the violation does 
not result in a death or $500,000 per 
event if the violation results in a death 
or as otherwise provided by law. 9. Add 71.4 to subpart A to read as follows: §71.4Requirements relating transmission 
of airline passenger, crew and flight 
information for public health purposes. (a) Any airline with a flight arriving into the United States, including any intermediate stops between the flight™s 
origin and final destination, shall make 
the data elements in paragraph (b) of 
this section available to the Director for 
passengers or crew who, as determined 
by the Director, may be at risk of 
exposure to a communicable disease, to 
the extent that such data are already 
available and maintained by the airline, 
within 24 hours of an order by the 
Director and in a format available and 
acceptable to both the airline and the 
Director. (b) The data elements referred to in paragraph (a) of this section include: (1) Full name (last, first, and, if available, middle or others); (2) Date of birth; (3) Sex; 
(4) Country of residence; 
(5) If a passport is required: Passport number, passport country of issuance, and passport expiration date; (6) If a travel document other than a passport is required: Travel document 
type, travel document number, travel 
document country of issuance and 
travel document expiration date; (7) Address while in the United States (number and street, city, State, and zip 
code), except that U.S. citizens and 
lawful permanent residents will provide 
address of permanent residence in the 
U.S. (number and street, city, State, and 
zip code); (8) Primary contact phone number to include country code; (9) Secondary contact phone number to include country code; (10) Email address; (11) Airline name; (12) Flight number; (13) City of departure; 
(14) Departure date and time; 
(15) City of arrival; 
(16) Arrival date and time; and 
(17) Seat number. 
(c) No later than February 18, 2019, the Secretary or Director will publish and seek comment on a report 
evaluating the burden of this section on 
affected entities and duplication of 
activities in relation to mandatory 
passenger data submissions to DHS/
CBP. The report will specifically 
recommend actions that streamline and 
facilitate use and transmission of any 
duplicate information collected. 10. Add §71.5 to subpart A to read as 
follows: §71.5Requirements relating transmission 
of vessel passenger, crew, and voyage 
information for public health purposes. (a) The operator of any vessel carrying 13 or more passengers (excluding crew) and, which is not a ferry as defined 
under 46 U.S.C. 2101 and U.S. Coast 
Guard (USCG) regulations (46 CFR 2.10Œ 
25), shall make the data elements in 
paragraph (b) of this section available to 
the Director for passengers or crew who, 
as determined by the Director, may be 
at risk of exposure to a communicable 
disease, to the extent that such data are 
already in the operator™s possession, 
within 24 hours of an order by the 
Director and in a format available and 
acceptable to both the operator and the 
Director. (b) The data elements referred to in paragraph (a) of this section include: (1) Full name (last, first, and, if available middle or others); (2) Date of birth; (3) Sex; 
(4) Country of residence; 
(5) If a passport is required: Passport number, passport country of issuance, and passport expiration date; (6) If a travel document other than a passport is required: Travel document 
type, travel document number, travel 
document country of issuance and 
travel document expiration date; (7) Address while in the United States (number and street, city, State, and zip 
code), except that U.S. citizens and 
lawful permanent residents will provide 
address of permanent residence in the 
United States (number and street, city, 
State, and zip code; as applicable); (8) Primary contact phone number to include country code; (9) Secondary contact phone number to include country code; (10) Email address; (11) Vessel operator; 
(12) Vessel name; 
(13) Voyage number; (14) Embarkation port and date; (15) Disembarkation port and date; 
(16) All port stops; and 
(17) Cabin number. 
(c) No later than February 21, 2019, the Secretary or Director will publish and seek comment on a report 
evaluating the burden of this section on 
affected entities and duplication of 
activities in relation to mandatory 
passenger data submissions to DHS/ 
CBP. The report will specifically 
recommend actions that streamline and 
facilitate use and transmission of any 
duplicate information collected. 11. Add §71.20 to subpart C to read 
as follows: §71.20Public health prevention measures 
to detect communicable disease. (a) The Director may conduct public health prevention measures, at U.S. ports of entry or other locations, through 
non-invasive procedures as defined in 
section 71.1 to detect the potential 
presence of communicable diseases. (b) As part of the public health prevention measures, the Director may 
require individuals to provide contact 
information such as U.S. and foreign 
addresses, telephone numbers, email 
addresses, and other contact 
information, as well as information 
concerning their intended destination, 
health status, known or possible 
exposure history, and travel history. 12. Add §§71.29 and 71.30 to subpart 
D to read as follows: §71.29Administrative records relating to 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional release. (a) The administrative record of an individual under quarantine, isolation, or conditional release shall, where 
applicable, consist of the following: (1) The Federal order authorizing quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release, including any subsequent 
Federal orders continuing or modifying 
the quarantine, isolation or conditional 
release; (2) Records of any available medical, laboratory, or other epidemiologic 
information that are in the agency™s 
possession and that were considered in 
issuing the Federal quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release order, 
or any subsequent Federal orders; (3) Records submitted by the individual under quarantine, isolation, 
or conditional release, or by an 
authorized advocate or representatives, 
as part of a request for rescission of the 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release or as part of a medical review; (4) The written findings and report of the medical reviewer, including any 
transcripts of the medical review and 
any written objections submitted by the VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00087Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6976 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
individual under Federal quarantine, isolation, or conditional release, or by 
an authorized advocate or 
representatives; (b) An individual subject to a Federal public health order shall, upon request, 
be served with a copy of his or her own 
administrative record in its entirety. §71.30Payment for care and treatment. 
(a) The Director may authorize payment for the care and treatment of 
individuals subject to medical 
examination, quarantine, isolation, and 
conditional release, subject to 
paragraphs (b) through (h) of this 
section. (b) Payment for care and treatment shall be in the Director™s sole discretion 
and subject to the availability of 
appropriations. (c) Payment shall be secondary to the obligation of the United States or any 
third-party (including any State or local 
governmental entity, private insurance 
carrier, or employer), under any other 
law or contractual agreement, to pay for 
such care and treatment, and shall be 
paid by the Director only after all third- 
party payers have made payment in 
satisfaction of their obligations. (d) Payment may include costs for providing ambulance or other medical 
transportation when such services are 
deemed necessary by the Director for 
the individual™s care and treatment. (e) Payment shall be limited to those amounts the hospital, medical facility, 
or medical transportation service would 
customarily bill the Medicare system 
using the International Classification of 
Diseases, Clinical Modification (ICDŒ 
CM), and relevant regulations 
promulgated by the Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services in 
existence at the time of billing. (f) For quarantinable communicable diseases, payment shall be limited to 
costs for services and items reasonable 
and necessary for the care and treatment 
of the individual for the time period 
beginning when the Director refers the 
individual to the hospital or medical 
facility and ends when, as determined 
by the Director, the period of 
apprehension, quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release expires. (g) For diseases other than those described in paragraph (f) of this 
section, such payment shall be limited 
to costs for services and items 
reasonable and necessary for care and 
treatment of the individual for the time 
period that begins when the Director 
refers the individual to the hospital or 
medical facility and ends when the 
individual™s condition is diagnosed, as 
determined by the Director, as an illness other than a quarantinable communicable disease. (h) For ambulance or other medical transportation, payment shall be limited 
to the costs for such services and other 
items reasonable and necessary for the 
safe medical transport of the individual. 13. Amend §71.33 by revising 
paragraphs (a) and (c) to read as follows: §71.33Persons: Isolation and 
surveillance. (a) The Director will arrange for adequate food and water, appropriate accommodation, appropriate medical 
treatment, and means of necessary 
communication for persons who are 
apprehended or held in isolation or 
quarantine under this subpart. * * * * * (c) Every person who is placed under surveillance by authority of this subpart shall, during the period of surveillance: (1) Give information relative to his/her health and his/her intended 
destination and submit to surveillance, 
including electronic and internet-based 
monitoring as required by the Director 
or by the State or local health 
department having jurisdiction over the 
areas to be visited, and report for such 
medical examinations as may be 
required. (2) Inform the Director prior to departing the United States or prior to 
traveling to any address other than that 
stated as the intended destination. * * * * * 14. Add §§71.36 through 71.39 to 
subpart D to read as follows: Sec. * * * * * 71.36Medical examinations. 
71.37Requirements relating to the issuance 
of a Federal order for quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release. 71.38Mandatory reassessment of a Federal 
order for quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release (surveillance). 71.39Medical review of a Federal order for 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release. §71.36Medical examinations. 
(a) The Director may require that an individual arriving into the United States undergo a medical examination 
as part of a Federal order for quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release. (b) The Director shall promptly arrange for the medical examination to 
be conducted when one is required 
under this section and shall as part of 
the Federal order advise the individual 
that the medical examination shall be 
conducted by an authorized and 
licensed health worker, and with prior 
informed consent. (c) As part of the medical examination, the Director may require that an individual provide information 
and undergo such testing, as may be 
reasonably necessary, to diagnose or 
confirm the presence, absence, or extent 
of infection with a quarantinable 
communicable disease. (d) Individuals reasonably believed to be infected, based on the results of a 
medical examination, may be isolated, 
or if such results are inconclusive or 
unavailable, individuals may be 
quarantined or conditionally released in 
accordance with this part. §71.37Requirements relating to the 
issuance of a Federal order for quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release. (a) A Federal order authorizing quarantine, isolation, or conditional release shall be in writing, signed by the 
Director, and contain the following 
information: (1) The identity of the individual or group subject to the order; (2) The location of the quarantine or isolation or, in the case of conditional 
release, the entity to who and means by 
which the individual shall report for 
public health supervision; (3) An explanation of the factual basis underlying the Director™s reasonable 
belief that the individual is exposed to 
or infected with a quarantinable 
communicable disease; (4) An explanation that the Federal order will be reassessed no later than 72 
hours after it has been served and an 
explanation of the medical review of the 
Federal order pursuant to this part, 
including the right to request a medical 
review, present witnesses and testimony 
at the medical review, and to be 
represented at the medical review by 
either an advocate (e.g., an attorney, family member, or physician) at the 
individual™s own expense, or, if 
indigent, to have representatives 
appointed at the government™s expense; (5) An explanation of the criminal penalties for violating a Federal order of 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release; and (6) An explanation that if a medical examination is required as part of the 
Federal order that the examination will 
be conducted by an authorized and 
licensed health worker, and with prior 
informed consent. (b) A Federal order authorizing quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release shall be served on the individual 
no later than 72 hours after the 
individual has been apprehended, 
except that the Federal order may be 
published or posted in a conspicuous 
location if applicable to a group of 
individuals and individual service 
would be impracticable. VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00088Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6977 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
(c) The Director shall arrange for translation or interpretation services of the Federal order as needed. (d) Nothing in these regulations shall affect the constitutional or statutory 
rights of individuals to obtain judicial 
review of their federal detention. §71.38Mandatory reassessment of a 
Federal order for quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release (surveillance). (a) The Director (excluding the CDC official who issued the quarantine, isolation, or conditional release order) 
shall reassess the need to continue the 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release of an individual no later than 72 
hours after the service of the Federal 
order. (b) As part of the reassessment, the Director (excluding the CDC official 
who issued the quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release order) shall review 
all records considered in issuing the 
Federal order, including travel records, 
records evidencing exposure or 
infection with a quarantinable 
communicable disease, as well as any 
relevant new information. (c) As part of the reassessment, and where applicable, the Director (excluding the CDC official who issued 
the quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release order) shall consider and make 
a determination regarding whether less 
restrictive alternatives would 
adequately serve to protect the public 
health. (d) At the conclusion of the reassessment, the Director (excluding 
the CDC official who issued the 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release order) shall promptly issue a 
written Federal order directing that the 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release be continued, modified, or 
rescinded. (e) In the event that the Director orders that the quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release be continued or 
modified, the written Federal order 
shall explain the process for requesting 
a medical review under this part. (f) The Director™s written Federal order shall be promptly served on the 
individual, except that the Federal order 
may be served by publication or by 
posting in a conspicuous location if 
applicable to a group of individuals and 
individual service would be 
impracticable. (g) The Director shall arrange for translation or interpretation services of 
the Federal order as needed. §71.39Medical review of a Federal order 
for quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release. (a) The Director shall, as soon as practicable, arrange for a medical review upon a request by an individual under Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release. (b) A request for a medical review may only occur after the Director™s 
mandatory reassessment under 71.38 
and following the issuance and service 
of a Federal order continuing or 
modifying the quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release. (c) The medical review shall be for the purpose of ascertaining whether the Director has a reasonable belief that the 
individual is infected with a 
quarantinable communicable disease. (d) The Director shall notify the individual in writing of the time and 
place of the medical review. (e) The Director (excluding the CDC official who issued the quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release order) 
shall designate a medical reviewer to 
review the medical or other evidence 
presented at the review, make medical 
or other findings of fact, and issue a 
recommendation concerning whether 
the Federal order for quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release should 
be rescinded, continued, or modified. (f) The individual subject to Federal quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release may authorize an advocate (e.g., 
an attorney, family member, or 
physician) at his or her own expense to 
submit medical or other evidence and, 
in the medical reviewer™s discretion, be 
allowed to present a reasonable number 
of medical experts. The Director shall 
appoint representatives at government 
expense to assist the individual for 
purposes of the medical review upon a 
request and certification, under penalty 
of perjury, by that individual that he/ 
she is indigent. (g) Prior to the convening of the review, the individual or his/her 
authorized advocate or representatives 
shall be provided a reasonable 
opportunity to examine the available 
medical and other records involved in 
the medical review pertaining to that 
individual. (h) The Director shall take such measures that he/she determines to be 
reasonably necessary to allow an 
individual under Federal quarantine or 
isolation to communicate with any 
authorized advocate or representatives 
in such a manner as to prevent the 
possible spread of the quarantinable 
communicable disease. (i) The medical reviewer may order a medical examination of an individual 
when, in the medical reviewer™s 
professional judgment, such an 
examination would assist in assessing 
the individual™s medical condition. (j) As part of the review, and where applicable, the medical reviewer shall consider and accept into the record evidence concerning whether less 
restrictive alternatives would 
adequately serve to protect public 
health. (k) The medical review shall be conducted by telephone, audio or video 
conference, or through other means that 
the medical reviewer determines in his/ 
her discretion are practicable for 
allowing the individual under 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release to participate in the medical 
review. (l) At the conclusion of the review, the medical reviewer shall, based upon 
his or her review of the facts and other 
evidence made available during the 
medical review, issue a written report to 
the Director (excluding the CDC official 
who issued the quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release order) concerning 
whether, in the medical reviewer™s 
professional judgment, the Federal 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release should continue. The written 
report shall include a determination 
regarding whether less restrictive 
alternatives would adequately serve to 
protect public health. The written report 
shall be served on the individual and 
the individual™s authorized advocate or 
representatives. (m) The Director (excluding the CDC official who issued the quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release order) 
shall, as soon as practicable, review the 
written report and any objections that 
may be submitted by the individual or 
the individual™s advocate or 
representatives that contest the findings 
and recommendation contained in the 
medical reviewer™s written report. Upon 
conclusion of the review, the Director 
(excluding the CDC official who issued 
the quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release order) shall promptly issue a 
written Federal order directing that the 
quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release be continued, modified, or 
rescinded. In the event that the Director 
(excluding the CDC official who issued 
the quarantine, isolation, or conditional 
release order) continues or modifies the 
Federal quarantine, isolation, or 
conditional release, the Director™s 
written order shall include a statement 
that the individual may request that the 
Director rescind the Federal quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release, but based only on a showing of significant, 
new or changed facts or medical 
evidence that raise a genuine issue as to 
whether the individual should continue 
to be subject to Federal quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release. The 
written Federal order shall be promptly 
served on the individual and the 
individual™s authorized advocate or VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00089Fmt 4701Sfmt 4700E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3 6978 Federal Register/Vol. 82, No. 12/Thursday, January 19, 2017/Rules and Regulations 
representatives, except that the Federal order may be served by publication or 
by posting in a conspicuous location if 
applicable to a group of individual™s and 
individual service would be 
impracticable. (n) The Director™s written order shall not constitute final agency action until 
it has been served on the individual or 
the individual™s authorized advocate or 
representatives, or alternatively, if 
applicable to a group of individuals and 
individual service would be 
impracticable, it is published or posted. (o) The Director (excluding the CDC official who issued the quarantine, 
isolation, or conditional release order) 
may order the consolidation of one or 
more medical reviews if the number of 
individuals or other factors makes the 
holding of individual medical reviews 
impracticable. (p) The Director may issue additional instructions as may be necessary or desirable governing the conduct of 
medical reviews. (q) The Director shall arrange for translation or interpretation services as 
needed for purposes of this section. 15. Add §71.63 to subpart F to read 
as follows: §71.63Suspension of entry of animals, 
articles, or things from designated foreign 
countries and places into the United States. (a) The Director may suspend the entry into the United States of animals, articles, or things from designated 
foreign countries (including political 
subdivisions and regions thereof) or 
places whenever the Director 
determines that such an action is 
necessary to protect the public health 
and upon a finding that: (1) There exists in a foreign country (including one or more political 
subdivisions and regions thereof) or 
place a communicable disease the 
introduction, transmission, or spread of which would threaten the public health 
of the United States; and (2) The entry of imports from that country or place increases the risk that 
the communicable disease may be 
introduced, transmitted, or spread into 
the United States. (b) The Director shall designate the foreign countries or places and the 
period of time or conditions under 
which the introduction of imports into 
the United States shall be suspended. 
The Secretary or Director will 
coordinate in advance with other 
Federal agencies that have overlapping 
authority in the regulation of entry of 
animals, articles, or other things, as may 
be necessary to implement and enforce 
this provision. Dated: January 9, 2017. Sylvia M. Burwell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 2017Œ00615 Filed 1Œ12Œ17; 4:15 pm] BILLING CODE 4163Œ18ŒP VerDate Sep<11>2014 23:46 Jan 18, 2017Jkt 241001PO 00000Frm 00090Fmt 4701Sfmt 9990E:\FR\FM\19JAR3.SGM19JAR3
mstockstill on DSK3G9T082PROD with RULES3