 Metrication timeline
 2 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 international foot or the statute foot
 Ñ some use one, some use the other, and some use 
both.)
 John Wilkins recognised, in 1668, that c
reating a new, 
universal
 measure
 that was derived 
from nature 
was the only way 
to replace
 local measures
 without local disputes
. Wilkins 
universal measure
 is now the basis of the modern metric system.
 The quantification of land, goods, building materials, and the system for recording the figures 
are now much easier, more accurate and more precis
e. This applies to all human activities 
such as trade, construction, agriculture and ownership.
 It is intended that this timeline will give you information about the important dates and 
events in the development of The International System of Units (SI), a
nd also give you a feel 
for the life and times at various stages in the history of the metric system and of the SI.
 This timeline includes some experience from many nations but with more details of the 
Australian experience with the metric system, as well 
as those of France, the UK, and the 
USA. The Australian experience is included as a successful example of metrication and the 
UK is included as an unsuccessful example of metric conversion despite the fact that the 
concept for a '
universal measure'
 first a
rose in England. France and the USA are included 
because they are respectively the first and last nations on Earth to legally adopt, promote, 
and widely use the metric system.
 Because of the metric system, the whole world is now able to communicate through
 common 
ways of measuring. We can share the same perceptions of space, dimensions, and mass. As 
an example, when two farmers from two different countries met, they used to find it hard to 
understand each other when the conversation touched upon miles, arpe
nts, chis, ells, or 
toises, for each would have different magnitudes in mind, but they understand each other 
without difficulty when talking of metres, litres, or kilograms.
 15 000 000 000 Before the Common Era (BCE)
 The metric system has given us simple m
ethods to handle very large numbers, very small 
numbers, and all of the other numbers in between. Here is the biggest example.
 The 'Big bang' theory of the Universe is based on the observation that all the stars and 
galaxies in the Universe seem to be movi
ng away from each other. If you calculate their 
speeds of separation, you can calculate that the Universe might have begun with a 'Big Bang' 
15 000 000 000 000 years ago. As we observe the speeds using light, it follows that the 
diameter of the Universe is
 twice the distance that light can travel in 15
 000 000 000 years or 
30 000 000 000 years. As light travels nearly 9
 500
 000 000 000 kilometres in a year, this 
means that the Universe is approximately:
 30 000 000 000 000 years multiplied by 9
 500
 000 000 000 kilometres per year 
which equals 285
 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 kilometres
 This is a very large number and before the metric system was developed, people 
Ñ even 
scientists and mathematicians 
Ñ had difficulty saying or writing such big numbers. Thes
e days we simply say that the diameter of the Universe is about 285 yottametres. The first stars 
appeared about 300 000 years after the Big Bang.
 4 500 000 000 BCE
 The Earth forms as part of the solar system.
 200 000 BCE
 The first traces of humans appear o
n the Earth.
   Metrication timeline
 3 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 5000 BCE
 The earliest known reasonably uniform methods of weights and measures seem to have 
arisen some time after 5000 BCE. These appear to have been used by the people of Egypt, 
Elam (now in Iran), Mesopotamia (now in Iraq and surrounding ar
eas), and the Indus Valley 
(now parts of India and Pakistan).
 These societies used measures for many tasks: trading for food, designing and sewing clothes, 
building dwellings or public buildings of an appropriate size and shape, or trading for raw 
material
s. Our knowledge of early measuring methods comes from many sources. Some measuring 
devices, including early measuring standards, are still preserved in museums where they can 
be examined. Some buildings, such as the Egyptian pyramids, still exist and thes
e can be 
measured directly. Another method is to compare the dimensions of old buildings with the 
writings of contemporary writers. For example, a fairly accurate idea of the size of the ancient 
Greek foot was obtained by measuring parts of the Greek Parth
enon in Athens with a 
description of the Parthenon written by Plutarch (46/120).
 Then as now, the measures were arranged according to the quantity that was being 
measured. Generally they measured length, mass, volume, and time.
 Length
 Early measuring 
methods for length were based on the use of human body parts. Lengths and 
widths of fingers, thumbs, hands, hand spans, cubits, and body spans seem to have been 
popular choices. For example, early Babylonian and Egyptian records and the Bible indicate 
that
 length was first measured with the forearm
 (cubit
 ~ 500
 mm), hand
 (width of male hand 
~ 100
 mm), or finger
 (one of three main fingers ~ 20
 mm). The cubit was defined in these cultures as the length from the tip of a man's elbow to the end 
of his extended 
fingertips, and obviously, this varies widely between different men. The cubit 
was a commonly used measure in building construction. For modern men, a cubit can be 
quite close to 500
 millimetres, so if a man puts the tips of his two long fingers together a
nd places his forearms horizontally, his elbows will be 
quite 
close to 1 metre apart.
 Mass (sometimes called weight)
 Body parts were not much use for measuring m
ass so various natural articles
 that seemed to 
be reasonably consistent, were chosen to be the 
standards. Stones, grains of wheat or other 
small grains were a common choice. As examples, the word stones (of 6.350 kilograms) are 
still used to talk about body mass in the UK, and the carob seed became the basis of a 
measure called a carat (of 200 milli
grams exactly) that is still used as a measure for 
gemstones
. Uniform carob seeds must be hard to obtain as the carat has been defined as 200 
milligrams for a long time.
 The Babylonian people made important improvements following the invention of the 
balan
ce. Instead of just putting 
an unknown mass on one scale pan and then placing enough 
grains in the other pan to balance, they instead kept some finely shaped and highly polished 
stones and used these instead of grains (presumably to save them counting); Th
ese were 
possibly the world's first standard masses.
 However, the Babylonians used different stones for weighing different commodities (one set 
of masses for grains, another for gold, and yet anther for gems). This is still practiced in 
modern times with w
ords
 like,
 Troy ounces and carats, 
still
 used instead of the metric units 
grams and milligrams.
 Although the grain was the earliest and most ancient unit of mass, it persists as the smallest 
unit in the apothecary, avoirdupois, Tower, and troy measuring me
thods.
 The grains might 
  Metrication timeline
 4 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 be the same but the ounces differ; for example, The Troy pound was divided into 12 Troy 
ounces whie the Avoirdupois pound was divided into 16 ounces.
 The early unit was a grain of wheat or barley used to weigh precious metals like s
ilver and 
gold. Because of this connection with gold and silver, the same mass words were often used 
to provide names for money; the same words were used as both units of mass and for money. 
You can still see this practice in the UK where the word, pound, 
is still used as a measure of 
mass and of money.
 Volume
 (or capacity)
 When it was necessary to compare the capacities of containers such as gourds
, or clay
 vessels, 
they were filled with 
small 
plant seeds 
that
 were then counted t
o measure the volume. One 
interesting measure was the Egyptian 
hon that had the volume of a cubic palm and 
corresponded to one mina of water; this corresponds to a modern litre, which can be thought 
as measuring 1 hand by 1 hand by 1 hand where a hand is 100 millimetres.
 Time
 Time w
as measured by counting the periods of the sun, moon, and other heavenly bodies. It 
was assumed that these were consistent in length until better methods showed that days, 
months, and years all varied in length. In any case they worked well enough to decid
e when 
the next market day was to take place or when was the best time to plant next year's crops.
 The Egyptians also discovered that, regardless of the season, the shortest shadow cast by any 
fixed object 
Ñ such as an obelisk 
Ñ would always point towards 
the North. This line pointing 
North became known as the mid
-day line or meridian (From Latin medius = mid
- + dies = 
day). The meridian line always points in the same direction: toward the North Pole in the 
northern hemisphere and toward the South Pole in t
he southern hemisphere. The 
Egyptians 
also knew how to find
 the longest 
day (at the summer solstice) 
and 
the shortest day
 (at the 
winter solstice). These points and other points through the year were invaluable in predicting 
the seasons.
 Variations
 After a
rchaeologists studied the evidence from all available sources, they decided that there 
had been no consistent lengths, masses, volumes, or times over any long 
period
 of Egyptian 
history
. They found that all the measures changed more or less gradually as ti
me passed. 
These changes were quite complex because there
 are many modifying influences.
 Similarly, t
here had been common names like a cubit or a foot 
in several other nations 
but 
these varie
d in length throughout history
 and they varied from country to country
. The 
earliest known units used to measure length by ancient peoples are the Egyptian cubit, the 
Indus Valley units of length, and the Mesopotamian cubit.
 Archaeologists now talk about the different measuring methods
 according to where they 
come from rather than looking for non
-existent consistencie
s. The common names for groups 
of measurements that existed before the International System of Units (SI), the modern 
metric system, are: Babylonian measures, Egyptian meas
ures, Greek measures of the 
Ptolemaic age, Olympic measures of Greece, Roman measures, British measures, 
Chinese 
measures, Inca measures, 
and many others. None of these old measures was ever fully 
organised 
into a coherent systems of measurement so it is i
naccurate to refer to 
any of 
them 
as 
a 'system
' of measurement.
 The metric system is the only system that ever existed.
 One interesting problem for traders was in the way different people chose to divide their 
measures into small amounts. Many chose 
halves
, quarters, 
eighths
, sixteenths and so on
; others chose thirds and two thirds; some chose 
twelfths
 and twentieths; and a fewer number 
chose to use decimal divisions.
 For the people near the centre of trade routes, such as the 
Babylonians, they had the prob
lem of converting from between all of these different 
measures and making sense of them all. People from their West, such as the Egyptians, 
  Metrication timeline
 5 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Greeks and Romans divided their measures into halves, quarters, twelfths, and twentieths, 
while people from their Ea
st, such as China and India, were more inclined at that time to use 
decimal numbers. Eventually the Babylonians developed the idea of using a numbering 
system based on the number 60 
Ñ a sexagesimal 
method of numbering
. From there on the 
conversions were 
relatively 
easier because the calculations to go from East traders to West 
traders were easier using the common denominator of 60. To make this even easier the 
Babylonians also developed a mass and money method where there were 60 shekels in a 
mina and 60 mi
nas in a talent.
 We can 
also 
trace the division of the circle into 360 degrees 
and the day into hours, minutes, and seconds 
back 
to the Babylonians 
use of a sexagesimal 
numbers.
 Biblical measures
 The need for honest measurements goes back to prehistoric ti
mes and there is a lot of 
uncertainty about its early history. However historical records have shown that all nations 
throughout time have found the necessity for legislative control in weights and measures. 
Many of these have been quoted in the Christian 
Bible.
 Of course, the Bible the only reference to early metrology but it does highlight the fact that 
there has been a need for some sort of control relative to weights and measures for thousands 
of years. It follows that if there was a need for some sort 
of control thousands of years ago 
when life was supposed to be simple, then it is hard to see that today's measurement 
legislation is not absolutely necessary in our more complex society.
 Most of us have access to the words used for ancient measures as the
se are used in the Bible. 
Even though we know stories such as 
that 
Noah and 
measured 
his ark
 in cubits
, few of us 
have any idea how the people of those ancient times measured. 
 The tables below give approximate amounts and distances, but Bible measuring 
words 
changed their value from time to time and even from book to book within the Bible. Like all 
other ancient measures, they varied through time in complex ways under the influence of 
many different modifying influences. The reason that I am using Bible 
measures is because 
the words (although not their values) are familiar to many people. You will see that some of 
the values are actually decimals where o
ne measure is 10 times another.
 The examples below show some biblical length measures and they are a cl
ear demonstration 
that people appreciated that there was a need for standards of weights and measures for fair 
and just trading thousands of years ago.
 Biblical length
 Modern approximation
 a day's journey
 30 kilometres
 some distance (a little way)
 7 or 8
 kilometres
 mile (Roman)
 1500 metres
 a sabbath day's journey (2000 cubits)
 1000 metres
 stadion
 200 metres
 rod (or reed)
 3 metres or 3000 millimetres
 pace
 750 millimetres
 cubit
 500 
millimetres
 span
 250 
millimetres
 handbreadth
 100 
millimetres
 for men
 80 millimetres for women
 finger width
 20 millimetres
   Metrication timeline
 6 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Here are some examples of biblical mass measures:
 Biblical Unit
 Modern approximation
 talent (60 minas)
 30 kilograms
 mina (50 shekels)
 600 grams
 shekel (2 bekas)
 10 grams
 beka (10 gerahs)
 5 grams
 gerah
 0.5 gram or 500 milligrams
 Here are some examples of biblical volume measures:
 Capacity
 Biblical measure
 Modern 
approximation
 Visualise as
 Dry Measure
 cor or homer
 (10 
ephahs)
 200 litres
 Petrol drum
  lethek (5 ephahs)
 100 litres
 Refrigerator
  ephah (10 omers)
 20 litres
 Jerry can
  seah (1/3 ephah)
 7 litres
 Small plastic 
bucket
  omer (1/10 ephah)
 2 litres
 Large kitchen jug
  cab (1/18 ephah)
 1 litre
 Small kitchen jug
 Liquid 
Measure
 bath (1 ephah)
 20 litres
 Large flower pot
  hin (1/6 bath)
 3 litres
 Milk jug
  log (1/72 bath)
 300 millilitres
 Kitchen glass
 Ancient measurers
 The fact that measures varied from time to time and from place to place was not a big 
impediment to ancient measurers. 
When people didn't travel much, th
is problem had less 
importance. 
As now, the really important issue was that the measuring words meant the 
same thing to everyone involved in 
a transaction or on a
 building
 site. This worked as long as 
the trade
rs understood what the measurement words meant
 Ñ exactly enough for their 
particular purpose. However, if the same people went to another 
town or another building 
site, all of
 the 
measuring
 words might no
w have
 quite 
different meaning
s. If the measuring on a particular job was always done by one person it doesn't make much 
difference how accurate measuring sticks are or even how long they are as long as you use the 
same stick each time. However, as soon as a job is assembled from a number
 of articles that 
are made then stored to be assembled by 
some one
 else later, standard measures are 
required. In this case measurements must be standard to mean the same thing to everyone.
 Builders of the pyramids appear to have used a cubit to design and
 measure components for 
their buildings. These were based on the human distance from your elbow to the tip of your 
longest finger. A cubit is very useful as it is readily available, convenient, and can't be mislaid, 
but it is not a positive
ly fixed dimensi
on or a standard.
 It seems that pyramid builders needed 
to have a standard cubit as so many people were working on 
different parts of 
the 
same 
construction. 
For
 this reason they created a 
Royal c
ubit
 and they had the good sense to make 
it 7 palms (or 700
 millimetres) long, so it wouldn't be confused with the common cubit when 
it was used in constructing buildings or for surveying.
 (Note that this is not the only Royal 
cubit. Others have also been found such as a very old Royal cubit
, about 520 millimetres l
ong, 
that was made from black marble and divided into 7 hands that were further sub
-divided into 
  Metrication timeline
 7 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 four digits, and then into fractional parts. The smallest division was just a little more than a 
millimetre.
 Although the cubit is no longer used as a unit of 
measurement, it is still useful to get an 
approximate length measurement without the need of a ruler or a measuring tape. 
For many 
men, i
t i
s close to a convenient 500
 millimetres (with 
your 
long
est
 fingers 
placed 
tip to tip 
your elbows are a metre apart).
 Over long periods of time, the lengths, masses, and measuring containers drifted from place 
to place. Many measuring methods words travelled long distances 
but often they did not take 
their definitions with them. This was particularly true for the Roman e
mpire where the 
uncia
, meaning a twelfth, became an ounce in Troy ounces in France, a 16th of a pound in 
Avoirdupois ounces in the UK, and also an inch (a twelfth of a foot) in the UK.
 Another example occurs because the Roman soldiers did a lot of marching
. As they marched, 
they kept track of the distance they travelled by counting in lots of a thousand paces 
Ñ a mille 
in ancient Roman Latin. A Roman pace was the distance covered from the time one foot 
touched the ground until that same foot touched the gro
und again, so a thousand paces was 
quite close to 1500 metres or 1.5 kilometres. In England, they borrowed the word, mille, 
changed 
the word
 to 
'mile
', which had many definitions over the years. The 
definition 
of the 
current 'metric mile' is exactly 
1.609
 344 metres.
 Then, as now, some people were prepared to use measuring confusion to gain commercial 
advantages by cheating. For this reason, the early books of the Christian Bible treat 
measurement almost as a running theme. Here are some examples about meas
urements 
taken from the King James Version of the Bible:
 Deuteronomy 25:13
-14 Thou shalt not have in thy bag divers weights, a great and a small. Thou shalt not 
have in thine house divers measures, a great and a small. Diverse weights and 
diverse measures,
 both of them alike are an abomination to the Lord.
 Micah 6:11
 Shall I count them pure with the wicked balances, and with the bag of deceitful 
weights.'
 Exodus 16:36
 Now an homer is the tenth part of an ephah.
 (This is one of the earliest mentions of 
decim
al divisions for measuring units.)
 Leviticus 19:35
-36 Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in meteyard, in weight, or in measure. 
Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin, shall ye have.
 Isaiah 5:10 Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall 
yield one bath, and the seed of an homer shall yield 
an ephah.
 Ezekiel 45
 Ye shall have just balances, and a just ephah, and a just bath.
 The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, that the bath may contain the 
tenth part of an homer, and the ephah th
e tenth part of an homer: the measure 
thereof shall be after the homer.
 (Here's another decimal division but with two 
names this time 
Ñ bath
 for wet 
goods 
and 
ephah
 for dry
 goods
.)   Metrication timeline
 8 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Amos 8:5
 Saying, When will the new moon be gone, that we may sell corn? And
 the sabbath, 
that we may set forth wheat, making the ephah small, and the shekel great, and 
falsifying the balances by deceit?
 Notes: it is curious that the 
homer
, at about 200
 litres, is nearly the same size as the standard 
200
 litre petrol and oil drum 
designed in Germany in the 1930s. The 
bath
, at one tenth of this 
amount, is equivalent to the small square
-shaped fuel carrier that became known in many 
English
-speaking countries as the '
jerry
-can
' from its German origins. For most of the 20th 
century, th
e 200
 litre drum was known as a 
44 gallon drum
 in the UK and its colonies, and 
as the 
55 gallon drum
 in the USA because of their gallons of different sizes. A 
hin
 was about 
4 litres and a shekel was about 12
 grams.
 4500 BCE
 Alexander Thom, in 
Megalithic Si
tes in Britain
, claims to have arrived at close estimations of 
standard lengths used in the construction of many prehistoric sites in Britain. He examined 
and carefully measured megalithic (big stone) sites in the UK and Europe. Thom believed 
that the orig
inal builders had been quite competent surveyors and builders who could build 
within a tolerance of a few millimetres. Thom's analysis of 300 sites led him to believe that 
there were standard lengths that he called a 
megalithic yard
 and a 
megalithic rod
. He estimated their lengths as:
 1 megalithic yard in the UK was about 2.720 British Feet (829 millimetres) and 1 
megalithic rod was about 2.5 megalithic yard or 6.8 British Feet 
(2 073
 millimetres).
 It is unlikely that the word, yard, was used at this time b
ut other words for the same thing 
might have been used in Europe. These include the French word, verge, and the Spanish 
word, vara, that might have had 
similar
 lengths: 843
 millimetres in Burgos and 
756 millimetres in Madrid. Later the Spanish word
, vara,
 was transported to America where 
its values are nearer to: 838
 millimetres in Mexico and Peru, and 847
 millimetres in 
California and Texas.
 Alexander Thom also explored the way that the measuring units, 
that he had renamed as 
megalithic 
yard
s and 
megalithi
c rod
s, might be sub
-divided. He formed the view that the 
megalith builders used a small unit that he named a megalithic inch that was one fortieth of a 
megalithic yard or one hundredth of a megalithic rod 
Ñ a curiously decimal sub
-division. 
Thom wrote:
 É there existed in Britain in Megalithic times a widespread knowledge of 
geometry. We find designs drawn with the same conventions set out on the ground 
and inscribed on rocks and stones
 É Thom believed he could identify from these rock carvings that 40 of t
he small divisions made 
one Megalithic Yard, and that 100 of them made a megalithic rod.
 É In both there is the same insistence on integral lengths. The linear unit that we 
find on the rock designs is 0.816 inch 
(~ 20
 millimetres) 
or exactly one
-fortieth 
of 
the Megalithic yard used in ground plans. The designer undoubtedly used a set of 
beam compasses with the distance between the inscribing points advancing by 
units or half units. This explains the preoccupation with integral lengths and the 
necessity of 
using triangles with sides of integral length satisfying the Pythagorean 
theorem.
 3400 BCE
 In Egyptian writing (called hieroglyphics) a special symbol for the number 10 was used. This 
was an
other
 early use of decimal numbers.
   Metrication timeline
 9 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 3100 to 2181 BCE
 Construction 
of the pyramids began during the period in Egypt called the 
Old Kingdom
. Inscribed weights from that time suggest that there was a mass unit of 27
 grams and another 
of half this mass at about 13
 grams. These mass measures were called deben.
 The standard me
asure for length in Egypt, based on surviving cubit rods, seems to be the 
cubit of about 500
 millimetres long. Larger measures were based on cubits. For example a 
very large measure, called a 
river measure
, seems to correspond to about 20
 000 cubits (~10 
kilometres).
 Measuring area at this time seemed to be based on decimal divisions. From Old Kingdom 
written sources the main area measures were:
 " the tA (called a land
-measure) = 10 x 10 cubits (about 25 square metres)
 " the xA (called a thousand) = 10 x 100 cubits (about 250 square metres), and 
 " the setjat (called a xA
-tA) = 100 x 100 cubits (about 2500 square metres)
 For measuring volume or capacity, Egyptians used three main measures:
 " the hin (called a jar),
 " the heqat (
called a barrel), and
 " the khar (called a sack).
 The relationship between these was: 1 khar = 10 heqat and 1 heqat = 10 hin. Old inscribed 
jars with hin
-measurements show that 1 hin is about 0.5 litres so 1 heqat would be about 5 
litres, and 1 khar about 50
 litres.
 3000 BCE
 In very early times the people of ancient India are thought to have used length measures such 
as the dhanus (or bow suggesting a length based on ho
w far you could shoot an arrow);
 the 
krosa (or cow
-call suggesting a distance from which yo
u could hear a cow)
; and the jojana (or 
stage suggesting a distance of how far you would walk before taking a 
rest break
). The peoples of Egypt, Mesopotamia, the Indus Valley, and in Iran devised the earliest known 
uniform weights and measures
 at about thi
s time
. Many different cubits of different lengths 
were used. In addition, the cubit, the length from your elbow to the tip of the middle finger, 
was divided in different ways. A common method was to say that the span of your hand (from 
the tip of 
your
 thu
mb to the tip of your outstretched little finger) was half a cubit, that the 
palm or width of your hand was one sixth of a cubit, and that the width of your middle finger 
was one twenty
-fourth of a cubit. Another method was to divide the cubit into 7 hands
, then 
into four digits (fingers), and then to divide the finger
 sub-divisions
 into fractional parts.
 Some historians suggest that the Babylonians had related the measures for length, volume, 
and mass to each other. The basis of all these co
-ordinated meas
ures was a cube with an edge 
one foot long. The cube, when filled with water formed a volume of one cubic foot. The water 
to fill the cube gave a unit of mass. There is some evidence for this idea because the required 
mass of about 30 kilograms (called a t
alent) has been found physically and referred to in 
historical literature. However, the volume measure is not so easy to find; the Biblical bath 
or ephah at about 20 litres are too small.
 2700 BCE
 Babylonian astronomers had named the constellations and wer
e able to use the angles 
between constellations to predict the 
approximate 
start of the seasons.
   Metrication timeline
 10 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 2600 BCE
 The most astounding of the ancient methods of measuring was 
the one that appeared in
 the 
Indus Valley. The Indus Valley people achieved great accuracy
 in measuring length, mass, 
volume, 
and time. Their measurements were extremely precise since their smallest 
length 
division, which is marked on an ivory scale found in Lothal, was approximately 1.704
 mm, 
the smallest division ever recorde
d on a scale of t
he Bronze Age.
 Engineers and traders from Harappa in the Indus Valley (now in the Sindh province of 
Pakistan) used a combined binary and decimal division of measurement. This was based 
around the number series: 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100
, 200, and 500. For 
example, the Harappa masses for weighing were shaped as hexahedrons and they were based 
on the recurrence of multiples of the three value number series: 1, 2, 5, ÉThis can be made 
larger using 10, 20, 50 or smaller using 0.1, 0.2, 0.5. 
In this series, 1 is half of 2 and 5 is half 
of the starting number of the next group of three, 10, which in turn can be divided by 2 in a 
binary way or by 5 or 10 in a decimal way. The series could then be continued upwards or 
downwards as required:
 É 0.0
05, 0.01, 0.02, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 200, and 500, 1000, 2000, 5000, É
 Many nations now use this method for their decimal currencies. For example, Australia has 
coins of 5, 10, 20, and 50 cents, 1 and 2 dollars, and then notes of 
5, 10 20, 50, and 100 
dollars.
 It is interesting that the Harappan small unit of mass was about 30 grams and this value 
persisted as the Roman 
uncia
 (meaning one twelfth of a Roman 
pondus
). Later it became the 
Italian 
onza
; next it was the European and Eth
iopian 
Maria Theresa ounce
 (a bit more than 
28 grams);
 and then as the current English 
avoirdupois
 ounce
 with its French name. All of 
these are now generally included (and legally defined) either as the international avoirdupois 
ounce of exactly 28.349
 523 grams or the international troy ounce of exactly 
31.103
 476
 8 grams.
 Here are some 
more 
samples from Lothal in the modern state of Gujar
at that was one of the 
most prominent cities of the ancient Indus valley civilization
 to show the great accuracy in 
mea
suring angle, length, mass, and time achieved by the people of the Indus Valley.
 Lothal is one of India's most important archaeological sites. The Archaeological Survey of 
India (ASI) excavated the Lothal site between 1955 and 1960.
 S. R. Rao in 
Lothal
, Ar
chaeological Survey of India (1985) writes:
 A thick ring
-like shell object found with four slits each in two margins served as a 
compass to measure angles on plane surfaces or in the horizon in multiples of 40 
degrees, up to 360 degrees. Such shell 
instruments were probably invented to 
measure 8
Ð12 whole sections of the horizon and sky, explaining the slits on the 
lower and upper margins. Archaeologists consider this as evidence that the Lothal 
experts had achieved something 2,000 years before the Gr
eeks: an 8
Ð12 fold 
division of horizon and sky, as well as an instrument for measuring angles and 
perhaps the position of stars, and for navigation.
 S. R. Rao also writes about measuring lengths in Lothal that he regarded as the finest ever 
recorded on a B
ronze Age measuring scale.
 An ivory scale from Lothal has the smallest
-known decimal divisions in Indus 
civilization. The scale is 6 millimetres thick, 15 mm broad and the available length 
is 128 mm, but only 27 graduations are visible over 46 mm, the dist
ance between 
graduation lines being 1.70
 mm. When writing about the measurement of mass in Lothal, S. R. Rao writes:
   Metrication timeline
 11 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 The Lothal craftsmen took care to ensure durability and accuracy of stone weights 
(masses) by blunting edges before polishing.
 Note that th
e people of Lothal were using decimal measuring methods more than 4
 500 years 
ago.
 2500 BCE
 The great pyramid of Gizeh was built in Egypt. This pyramid was built using 440 royal cubits 
(about 230
 metres) along each side of the base.
 The Harappan people, wh
o flourished in the Punjab between 2500 BCE and 1700 BCE, seem 
to have developed methods that used uniform weights and measures. These were based on 
decimal numbers with half values in between. The main series, that went 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 1, 
2, 5, 10, 2
0, 50, 100, 200, and 500, looks a lot like the currencies of many modern nations, 
such as Australia. 
 When some Harappan scales for measuring length were discovered during excavations they 
surprised the archaeologists with the accuracy and the precision of
 their markings. For 
example, one scale had marks accurately placed 9.322
 millimetres apart; 100 of these 
divisions added to a length of 932.2
 millimetres or just a little less than a modern metre.
 Another example was of a different scale where the small d
ivision was 33.5
 millimetres; 10 of 
these would make a rather large '
foot
'; and 3 of the feet would make a length of 
1000.5
 millimetres, about the length of a long stride and almost the same length as the 
modern metre.
 Archaeological measurements of Harapp
an building ruins show that the Harappan length 
measures were accurately used in their building construction.
 By about 2500 years ago, Greek sailors applied a deductive reasoning process to estimate the 
speed of their ships. The ship's speed was determined
 by counting the number of oar strokes 
in a time that was measured with a sand glass; the distance travelled over the water was 
deduced from these figures. Later sailors threw a log tied to a knotted rope into the water 
then counted the number of knots ove
r a fixed distance. From this practice we acquired the 
word 
knots
, as a measure of speed, and the idea of a 
log
 book where the speeds were 
recorded.
 2175 BCE
 In the ancient city of Gudea
, a statue of the governor, Lagash
 the Prince of Sumer, 
showed 
him 
with some plans and a ruler showing the size of various units. From this a palm was 
about 100
 mm, a cubit was about 500
 mm, and so a double cubit was about the length of a 
modern metre.
 Sometime after this, the Babylonians devised a unit of mass based on a
 hand of about 
100
 mm. They built a cube (probably from clay) where each side had a length of one hand 
(100
 mm). This was known as a ka and it had a capacity very close to a modern litre. If you 
filled a ka with water, it became an important unit of mass, 
called a great mina, which had a 
mass quite close to the modern kilogram.
 At this early stage, there were no standards, so units with the same name could vary in 
amount from place to place and from time to time. The large cubit, for example, vari
ed from 
about 400
 mm to about 70
0 mm. No doubt, much of this variation arose from merchants 
who were somewhat less than honest.
 Some of the variation in units also arose from taxation; there was a royal cubit and a common 
cubit. The king, queen, or Pharaoh simply bo
ught using the royal cubit and subsequently sold 
using the common cubit 
Ð the difference between these two measures was the amount of tax. 
In Egypt the common cubit was close to 500
 mm, while the royal cubit 
could be as much as 
700
 mm. Physical evidence st
ill exists of these measures. The ancient Egyptians also had a 
  Metrication timeline
 12 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 distance measure, an atour, which was equivalent to 10
 000 m or 10
 km, a curiously decimal 
number.
 2150 BCE
 During the reign of Naram
-Sin the Akkadian Empire decided on a single official measur
ing 
standard. This was based on a theoretical water container, called the royal gur
-cube or 
!arru 
kurru, that was 6
 metres 
"
 6
 metres 
"
 0.5
 metre (or 18 cubic metres) from which from which 
all other units were derived. The choice of the number 6 now seems 
strange to us, but the 
Akkadian Empire at that time used both decimal numbers and other numbers based on the 
number 6 and 60. Naram
-Sin's measurement standard is now regarded as the first rational 
measurement method in Mesopotamia. Following the demise of 
the Akkadian Empire the 
rational measurement standards were not supported and maintained. See 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ancient_Mesopotamian_units_of_measurement
 for de
tails.
 2125 to 1700 BCE
 During the Middle Kingdom in Egypt there was a recovery from chaos and relative political 
stability. One Middle Kingdom document refers to 
small
 and 
large
 deben, presumably the 
half deben (~13
 grams) and the full deben (~27
 grams).
 Middle Kingdom wooden rod fragments, found in Lahun and Abydos seem to be standards of 
length in cubits.
 Middle Kingdom accounts suggest that the earlier decimal volume measures were replaced 
with a halving method of division. Written documents refer to si
ngle and double heqat 
measures and other sources suggest a mixed system of single, double and quadruple heqats.
 2000 BCE
 Naram
-Sin's standard gur
-cube or 
!arru kurru (see 2150 BCE) was again adopted as the 
measuring standard during the Neo
-Sumerian Period. The recording of this law is known as 
the Nanse Hymn or as the Letter of Nanse. This law reduced multiple measuring meth
ods to 
a few agreed common standards. 
Water clocks were also is use in Mesopotamia at this time. 
 These standards continued to be used by the successors to Sumerian civilization
, which
 included the Babylonians, the Assyrians, and the Persians.
 Recent (abou
t 2000 CE) measurement research has focused on using modern statistical 
techniques to such things 
as 
Statues
 of Gudea
 and the 
copper
 cubit of Nippur
 as well as 
Sumerian architecture through studying original design drawings and remaining buildings. 
Some ar
chaeologists maintain that there are several similarities between Sumerian standards 
and modern metric (SI) standards. See 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ancient_Mesopotamia
n_units_of_measurement
 for details.
 The 
cubit of Nippur
 is a 
copper bar 
marked with divisions called
: foot, hand and finger
. The 
cubit of Nippur
 at 1103.5 mm was
 divided into 4
 Sumerian 
feet (
each 
about 276
 mm) = 
16 Sumerian 
hands (
each 
about 69
 mm) = 64
 Sumerian finger
s (
each about 17
 mm). Statues
 of Gudea
 have been collected from many places in the ancient world. Many of 
them have plans of palaces or temples with 
measuring
 scales 
attached to them. Th
ese figures 
are about 500
 millimetres (1
 cubit) high wh
en they show Gudea sit
ting, and about 
1000
 millimetres high (2
 cubits) when they show Gudea standing.
 The Greeks adopted the schoinos as a long unit of length (about 6.3 km). They acquired this 
from the Egyptians who had adopted it from the Persians.
   Metrication timeline
 13 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1850 BCE
 A clay tablet from this date, found in Senkerah in Iraq, described a table of linear measures 
based on the width of a human (presumably male) palm. Other than the palm, it had three 
cubits: a small cubit of three palms, a medium cubit of four palms, an
d a large cubit of five 
palms.
 1766-1122 BCE
 Chinese people used a decimal place number system during the Shang Dynasty. In Chinese 
characters, ten was written as 
ten
-blank
, eleven was written as 
ten
-one
 and zero was left as a 
blank space for a number such
 as 405 that was written as 
four blank five
. An example of how 
the Chinese used the decimal system may be seen in an 
inscription from the thirteenth 
century BCE, where '
547 days
' is written '
Five hundred plus four decades plus seven of days
'. 1550 to 1069 
BCE
 Another Egyptian Empire arose
 that we now know 
as the New Kingdom. At this time there 
was a change in the masses used for trade with 1 deben (~90
 grams) equated to 10 qedet 
(~9
 grams). This is another early decimal division of measuring methods.
 During
 the New Kingdom in Egypt, wooden and stone rods were placed in elite burials, some 
were inscribed as gifts from the king. Later similar inscribed stone rods were found in 
temples; perhaps this was where lengths could be checked for trading purposes.
 Egypt
ian sources refer to a measure for land called the 
cord measure
 that had two sizes, one 
was about 100 cubits (~50
 metres), and another less used one was about 1000 cubits 
(~500
 metres).
 Surveyors in Egypt were called 
cord
-stretchers
. In Egypt, measurements
 were taken of the Sun's shadow against graduations marked on flat 
stone surfaces. Some of these still exist in museums. A vertical rod (a gnomon) cast a shadow 
and the time and the seasons could be measured with reasonable accuracy
 by closely noting 
the l
ength and the angle of the shadows
. 594 BCE
 During the time that Solon was archon, or chief magistrate, of Athens he introduced a 
coinage system, which consisted of a stater that he divided into 100 drachmas. This was 
another
 example of an early decimal cu
rrency.
 572 BCE
 Pythagoras was born in Samos but because he disagreed with the ruling government, in 
about 532 BCE he travelled to Croton, in Calabria in southern Italy, where he set up a school 
that taught mathematics including the mathematics of astronom
y and music.
 One of his 
discoveries that we still use was the proof that:
 The square of the longest side (the hypotenuse) of any right
-angled triangle is 
equal to the sum of the squares of the other two sides.
 We now know this mathematical rule as Pythagor
as' theorem and we usually use it in the 
form of a
2 + b
2 = c
2 where the square of a (a
2) plus the square of b (b
2) is equal to the square 
of c the hypotenuse (c
2). The Babylonians probably knew Pythagoras' theorem 1000 years earlier
 but
 he was the first 
to mathematically prove it.
 We constantly use many of 
Pythagoras' 
ideas. Here are some examples:
 1 His belief that all naturally occurring relations could be explained and understood 
using numbers. He showed how numbers could be applied to music.
   Metrication timeline
 14 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 2 Pythagoras 
and his followers were distressed to find that not all numbers are rational. 
We now regularly use Pythagoras' irrational numbers
 such as the square root of 2
. 3 Pythagoras taught that the Earth was a sphere
 and not flat.
 He 
also knew
 that the orbit 
of the Mo
on was inclined to 
Earth's
 equator
. Pyt
hagoras' ideas were essential to the development of measuring methods based on the 
shape and size of the Earth
 (see 1792 below)
. 500 BCE
 Thales of Miletus (640
-546 BC) used shadows to make a projection of the region w
here he 
lived and used the lengths to estimate heights and distances.
 428 The Greek philosopher, Plato (428 BCE
-347 BCE) was a student of Socrates (469 BCE
Ð399 BCE) and a teacher of Aristotle (384 BCE
Ð322 BCE). All three provided foundations for our 
modern
 views about mathematics, science, and philosophy many of which are routinely used 
in metrology.
 332 BCE
 The city of Alexandria was founded in Egypt.
 330 BCE
 The thirteen books of Euclid's 
Elements of Geometry
 were written in Alexandria.
 300 BCE
 Euclid wro
te about the laws of reflection of light.
 250 BCE
 Archimedes of Syracuse (c287 BCE/c
212 BCE) 
wrote
 that the Earth revolved around the Sun.
 235 BCE
 After Eratosthenes of Cyrene (276 BCE/194 BCE) became director of the library at 
Alexandria, he gave a remark
ably accurate estimate of the Earth's circumference
. Eratosthenes wrote a description of the known world in which he calculated the 
circumference of the Earth to be about 250
 000 stadion. Eratosthenes measured the
 circumference of the Earth 
using
 basically
 the same idea as the French when they defined the 
length of the metre 
by measuring the Earth 
in the 1790s.
 Eratosthenes measured the Earth using the distance from Alexandria to Syene (now Aswan, 
on the Nile), in Egypt. He noticed that on the day of the su
mmer solstice sunlight went 
straight down the shaft of a well in Syene, so the sun must be directly overhead
 at Syene
. He 
realised that at the same moment the sun was not overhead in Alexandr
ia, to the north of 
Syene, because the earthÕs surface is curved.
 He went to 
Alexandria
 and measured the 
shadow of 
an obelisk
 (a tall stone pillar
) in the grounds of the Alexandria library
. Using the 
height of the obelisk and the length of its shadow, he calculated the angle of the Sun at the 
summer solstice as 1/50 of 
a circle in Alexandria.
 Previously, Eratosthenes also developed a 16 point wind rose that was the first to use the 
word, 
degree
, so he understood how to measure and to calculate using angles and he knew 
that there are 360¼ in a circle.
 From the sunÕs shado
w, he worked out that Alexandria and Syene were 7.2¼ apart from each 
other, on the circumference of the world. He knew that a camel travelled about 100 stadia a 
  Metrication timeline
 15 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 day, and that it took 50 days to go from Syene to Alexandria. So the distance was 5000 stadia. 
Finally, Eratosthenes multiplied the 5000 up to the full circumference of the world, instead 
of just Syene to Alexandria: 5000 x 360/7.2. The answer is 250 000 stadia.
 Eratosthenes
' calculation was not quite right. It was a little too high because Syene is
 not 
quite due south of Alexandria, and camelsÕ paces and therefore their speeds are not always 
the same.
 Modern values for the Earth's circumference are 40
 008 kilometres 
for the polar 
circumference and
 40
 076
 kilometres for the equ
atorial circumference.
 221 BCE
 Emperor Shi Huang Ti attempted a major measuring reform in China as part of a program to 
unify the nation. Shih Huang Ti set standards for Chinese weights and measures.
 200 BCE
 The Indian mathematician, 
Bakhshali
 used zero in a textbook before 200 
BCE. The word 
'zero' in English derives from the Indian Sanskrit 
sunya
 that means empty or blank. This was 
translated as zifr by Arab writers, then as the Latin zephirum, and finally into English as 
either 
zero
 or 
cipher
. 129 BCE
 The Greek astronomer, geog
rapher, and mathematician Hipparchus (
!""#$%&'
 c 190 
BCE/c
 120 BC) used projections to show heights (sterographs) and perspective 
(orthographs). He also 
completed his star catalogue with about 850 stars catalogued by their 
apparent brightness and their cel
estial latitude and longitude.
 100 BCE
 Greece
 The width of a forefinger (~ 20
 mm) was a common small length measure. A Greek foot was 
regarded as 16 finger
-widths (16 fingers = one foot) that would make each Greek foot 320 
millimetres long; this is too lon
g for most people and was probably too long for the Greek 
people of that time.
 Rome
 The Romans divided the foot into 12 unicae. Unicae means '
a twelfth part
' and is the origin 
of 
both of 
the words 
inch
 and 
ounce
. Assuming the average Roman foot is about th
e same as 
ours 
Ð about 275 mm 
Ð then the original unciae must have been about 23 millimetres long.
 As the Romans were a military society, they measured long distances in lots of 1000 double 
steps, as in left
-right
-left. This gave them one of the first deci
mal measures. In modern 
military terms with a pace of 750 millimetres, two paces is 1500 millimetres and 1000 paces 
is 1500 metres or 1.5
 kilometres.
 46 BCE
 Roman calendar
 Julius Caesar (100 BCE/44 BCE) introduced a new calendar with three years of 365 day
s followed by a leap year of 366 days. To adjust for the seasons this meant that the year 46 BCE 
had to have 445 days; this made it the longest year ever.
 However, the Roman calendar was fundamentally flawed. It provided for a year that was 
exactly 365 
#
 d
ays long when the real year was 365.2425 days long. This meant that the 
  Metrication timeline
 16 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 beginning of the year on the calends of Mars gradually moving forward until the seasons no 
longer matched the dates.
 Roman length
 Julius Caesar, about the time he reformed the calendar
, also approved the method for 
measuring long distances using 1
 000 paces where each pace consisted of two steps. In Latin 
1 000 paces is '
mille passus
' and much later, in English, this was shortened from '
mille 
passus
' to '
mille
', meaning 1000,
 and eventu
ally 
this was shortened 
to '
mile
'. The Roman mile consisted of 1000 paces, where the 'pace' or double
-step was defined as 5 
Roman feet so the Roman mile was 5000 Roman feet. 
The Roman mile of 5000 feet (about 
1 500
 metres
) was introduced into England 
during the occupation of England.
 Many European countries also retained a mile of about 5000 Roman feet (however big the 
local 'feet' were), but in England, the mile was redefined as 5280 feet in an attempt to 
coordinate the foot and mile with other local 
measures such as the rod and the furlong.
 The Romans spent so much time marching across various countries that they recorded the 
distances in mille passus each mille comprising a thousand footsteps. They used permanent 
stones to mark the distance betwe
en t
owns and villages.
 In addition, each Roman road had 
occasional small obelisk statues placed to indicate the distance from Rome because, u
nder 
the Roman Empire, Rome was the centre of the 
known
 world. 
It was said that, 
All roads le
ad to Rome
, and 
so 
all dis
tances were measured from Rome.
 The Romans probably inherited the 
word, 
foot
, from 
Egypt
 via Greece. 
A Roman architect, 
Statilius Aper, had a statue of himself made that included a ruler that has been
 accurately 
measured as 296
 mm. The Roman foot was somet
imes divided into 12 unciae (about 
24.7
 mm) and sometimes divided into 16 digits (about 18.5
 mm).
 Assuming that 
296
 millimetres 
was 
the length of 
a Roman foot and that there were five feet 
to a Roman pace, then one thousand Roman paces to a mille passus, t
hen a Roman '
mille' would be 1480 (say 1500)
 metres.
 If we estimate 
the Roman mile at about 1
 500
 m, each soldier would have single paces of 
about 750
 mm. They simply selected a pace length that was a little stretched yet comfortable 
for their smallest sol
diers and the taller soldiers keep in pace using these smaller paces; 
modern armies still use a standard pace of 750
 mm. If we include every country that was influenced by Rome, 2000 years ago, they all had units 
with the names 'inch', 'foot' and 'mile, or
 local languages equivalents. All countries that were 
part of the Roman Empire had 'inch', 'foot' and 'mile' units but the lengths of these varied 
widely even within the same country. Countries further away from Roman influence such as 
China and Japan used
 other non
-Roman units.
 It's interesting that people who want to 'go back to miles' really want to use an old Roman 
decimal system. The metric system currently uses 'milli' to mean one thousandth.
 Roman mass
 For measuring mass the Romans used scales called
 Libra Pondo.
 The word pound is derived 
from the second part of Libra Pondo and the abbreviation for pound (lb.) is derived from the 
first part of Libra Pondo. In Latin Libra meant scales and pondo referred to the weights that 
were placed on the pan of the
 scales. The Romans shortened Libra Pondo to libra.
 The Roman libra of about 500
 g was divided as follows:
 1 libra = 12 unciae = 48
 sicilici = 96 drachmae = 288
 scripula = 576
 oboli = 
1728
 siliquae
 Pounds, ounces, and hundredweights were other Roman measur
es of mass. The word ounce 
is derived from the word for a twelfth 
Ð unciae. It is interesting that some people still use a 
  Metrication timeline
 17 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 form of unciae as the word inch 
Ð and it still means one twelfth. In Rome, there were 12 
ounces (unciae) in a pound. This survived in
to modern times as the 12 ounces in a Troy 
pound and 12 inches in a Roman foot.
 Unciae, literally 
a twelfth
 in Latin, became, in English, 
both inches and ounces.
 The Romans also tried other decimal units. An 
as (from where we got the word ace) was 
100th part of a roman talent and a hundredweight
, also called a talent,
 meant a 100 libra 
pondus.
 Commercial goods were originally traded simply by number or by volume. When weighing of 
goods began, new units of mass w
ere developed but these were naturally based on the 
previo
usly used volume based methods.
 The diverse magnitudes of units having the same name, which still appears today in the dry 
and liquid measures in the USA, could have arisen from the nature of the va
rious 
commodities traded. The larger avoirdupois pound for goods of commerce might have been 
based on volume of water that has a higher bulk density than grain.
 There is some conjecture that 
as the two methods developed,
 one was based on a cubic foot of 
grain 
(28.3 litres or 22.4 kilograms)
, while the other was based on a cubic foot of (the denser) 
water
 (28.3 litres or 28.3 kilograms)
. To support this idea, the difference between the 
theoretical ratio (1.265) and the historical ratio (1.215) is not too far
 away and some 
historical 
measuring 
talents have been found that are approximately equal to the mass of one cubic foot 
of water
 (28.3
 kilograms)
.  All the countries of western Europe used roughly similar 'pounds'. In some countries they 
were divided into 1
2 ounces and in other countries they were divided into 16 ounces; 
12 ounce pounds were common in Italy and southern France, but in Spain and northern 
Europe 16
 ounce pounds were more usual. The name of the 'pound' in Europe usually traces 
back to one or ot
her part of the Latin 'libra pondo'. Libra is used for 'pound' in Italy, Spain, 
and Portugal and in France it is called the livre. Variations of the Latin word 'pondo' are the 
origin of the English pound, Dutch pond, Danish pund, German pfund, and Russian 
funt.
 In some English speaking nations there are still two different 'pounds' being used 
Ð the 
avoirdupois pound and the Troy pound. The avoirdupois pound is divided into 16 
avoirdupois ounces and the Troy pound is divided into 12 Troy ounces. An avoirdupo
is pound 
(of 453.592
 37 grams) is exactly 175/144 troy pounds. The word avoirdupois comes from the 
French phrase '
avoir du poids
', which literally means '
to have weight
' and it refers to goods 
that are sold by weight rather than by volume or by the piece. 
The troy pound is named after 
the French market town of Troyes and one Troy pound (of 373.242
 grams) is 144/175 of an 
avoirdupois pound.
 Roman angles
 The instrument used for setting out right angles for many thousands of years was the groma 
that had been i
nvented and used by the Egyptians in constructing their pyramids. A groma 
consisted of 4 stones hanging by cords from two sticks joined at right angles. Measurements 
were made by lining up two of the strings and the point of the construction that was to be
 set.
 The groma worked well on fairly flat construction sites so it was widely used for road 
construction. A carving on a tomb near Turin dating from the first century CE, shows a 
groma on the tomb of Lucius Aebutius Faustus who was described as an agrimet
er, literally 
an earth measurer.
 55 BCE and 54 BCE
 Julius Caesar visited England
 but chose not to remain there as an occupying force
.   Metrication timeline
 18 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 25 BCE
 A Roman book on architecture describes a device for measuring distances that worked by 
counting the revolutions of 
a wheel with a known diameter. These days this would be called 
an odometer, or a 
distance
-measuring
 wheel
 (or more humorously a 
metre meter
). 9 CE (Common Era)
 Emperor Wang
-Mang standardised the measurements of China. These became known as '
the 
good measur
es of Wang
-Mang
'. However, with the decline of central authority over the 
centuries, regional measures gradually underwent growing differentiation between the 
regions and also increased in size 
Ñ with the (capacity) measure of grain increasing most 
markedl
y. By the Ming dynasty, the basic measure of length, the chi or foot, was 400 
millimetres longer than under Wang
-Mang; the standard unit of mass doubled and the grain 
measure of capacity quadrupled!
 40 Heron of 
Alexandria
 (10/70) described 
an instrument 
that he called a dioptra that possibly 
dated from about 150 BCE. Dioptra comes from the Greek word that means Ôto see throughÕ. 
A dioptra was used to accurately measure angles and it was the fore
-runner of the modern 
theodolite.
 43 The Roman conquest of 
England by Aulus Plautius introduced the Roman 1000 paces was as 
the measure for long marching distances. The Latin term '
mille passus
' for 1000 paces was 
soon shortened, firstly to '
mille
', and then to '
mile
' in English.
 As a Roman double pace was 
assessed as about 5 English feet, the English mile was 
considered to be about 5000 English feet. Later, it was stretched to 5280 feet to 
accommodate exactly 8 furlongs, a popular English measure of the time that derived its name 
from the length of a furrow
ed ploughed with the assistance of oxen.
 By coincidence, a furlong is roughly the same length as the various Greek and Roman 
stadions that had been inherited from even more ancient times. It seems to be the optimal 
length for the traditional ox drawn ploug
h before the oxen need to rest.
 79 When the Mount Vesuvius volcano erupted burying Pompeii, it preserved many parts of the 
town and its artefacts. Among these were measuring instruments of the times such as the 
groma for measuring angles. The Pompeii groma
 were made with iron main supports with 
four bronze plumb bobs
. 83 Ptolemy 
(70
-147) 
was born in Egypt and given the name Claudius Ptolemaeus (
()#*+,&'
 -.&)/
µ
#0&'
) that identified him as a Roman citizen
, with Greek family connections
, who lived 
in Roman Egy
pt. He became a mathematicia
n, astronomer, and a geographer who is known 
for two great scientific works: the 
Mathematical Treatise
 that later became known as 
Almagest
, The Great Treatise
, a book on the known astronomy of the time, and the 
Geography
 which w
as a thorough description of all the geographic
al knowledge of the Greco
-Roman world.
 Ptolemy drew the first conic projection plane map of the Earth with 
North at the top
. Ptolemy's map made it possible for the first time of drawing of rhumb lines so that 
a ship 
could steer in a single direction from point to point on the Earth's surface.
   Metrication timeline
 19 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Ptolemy also devised the 60 minute and 60 second divisions of the 360 degrees in a circle, 
which lead to the idea of a nautical mile as equal to a minute of angle at the E
arth's surface.
 Unfortunately, for Ptolemy,
 Eratosthenes' calculations of the size of the Earth had been lost 
when the libraries of Egypt were destroyed (they were later discovered in Constantinople). 
Ptolemy had to make a judgement about the size of the E
arth to draw his maps and when he 
did this he miscalculated 
Ñ his estimate was closer to 30
 000 kilometres instead of 
40 000 kilometres that we know now.
 150 Claudius Ptolemaeus (85/165), an astronomer, a geographer, and a mathematician lived in 
Alexandria
 in Egypt. In the year 150
, Ptolemy drew a map of the world that included China, 
Sri Lanka, and the Malay Peninsula. He also estimated that the circumference all around the 
world, but at about 30
 000 kilometres, he got it wrong.
 250 to 900
 During the Class
ic period of Mayan civilisation there is evidence that a symbol for zero was 
used in their base
-20 number system.
 400 to 700
 The origin of a base
-10 positional number system might be traced back to a positional base
-10 number system called in Chinese, 
Hua 
Ma. Coincidentally, when the number of pilgrims 
travelling between China and India reached its peak, decimal numbers began to be used in 
India similar to their use in China.
 600 With the demise of the Roman Empire at about this time, there was little 
measurement 
progress in Europe for the next 500 years of the '
Dark Ages
'. At about this time, China had successfully standardised units of measurement
, the 
chi
, the 
tsin
, and the 
cheng
, throughout its territory.
 610 The Koran, written between 610 and 632, 
contains the line:
 Woe to those who give short weight! Who when they measure against others take 
full measure; but when they measure to them or weigh to them, diminish!
 (Koran Sura 83)
 629 A Chinese traveller, Hiuen Tsiang (603
-668), described Indian 
measurements as follows:
 In point of measurements, there is first of all the yojana; this from the time of the 
holy kings of old has been regarded as a day's march for an army. The old 
accounts say it is equal to 40 li; according to common reckoning in Ind
ia it is 30 li, 
but in the sacred book (of Buddha) the yojana is only 16 li. In the subdivision of 
distances a yojana is equal to eight krosas (ken
-lu-she): a krosa is divided into 500 
bows (dhanus): a bow is divided into four cubits (hastas): a cubit is d
ivided into 24 
fingers (angulis): a finger is divided into 7 barley corns (yavas): and so on to a 
louse (yuka), a nit (liksha), a dust grain, a cow's hair, a sheep's hair, a hare's 
down, a copper water (a small hole in a copper cup for water administration
), and 
so on for seven divisions, till we come to a small grain of dust (anu): this cannot be 
  Metrication timeline
 20 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 divided further without arriving at nothingness, and so it is called the infinitely 
small (paramanu).
 Some historians regard this 
attempted 
organisation of measur
ing words as a system. It is 
probably better to regard this 
simply 
as an attempt to provide some sort of credibility to these 
old measuring words even though they 
obviously 
had no standard definitions to provide 
them with a
ny secure foundation.
 It is proba
bly better to think of the metric system as the 
only measuring system that ever existed, and that all previous collections of measuring words 
were just that 
Ð previous collections of measuring words.
 670 Arabic mathematicians in Iraq used a zero digit betw
een nonzero digits but not after nonzero 
digits.
 732 During the reign of Ethelbert II, who was the king of Kent, the 'acre' was in common use.
 However, there was no real standard as to what an acre was. The size of an acre varied 
according to how much land
 could be ploughed in a day. Acres on rough, hilly, or clay ground 
were smaller acres than land on eas
ily ploughed flat or sandy land; acres nearer to a market 
town were smaller than acres further away from the market.
 742 Charlemagne (742/814) was born. H
e became King of the Franks in 771 and, by agreement 
with the pope, he built the Holy Roman Empire that extended from Vistula River to the 
Atlantic, from the Baltic Sea to the Pyrenees mountains, and also included nearly all of Italy 
and some of the Balkan
s. During Charlemagne's lifetime he issued several 
Capitulare missorum
 documents that had 
the intention to protect the whole population from cheating and corruption. Often these were 
written especially to protect poor people such as wards and widows. Charl
emagne also gave 
encouragement to commerce; the fairs were protected and weights, measures, and prices 
were regulated.
 789 Karaouiyine University was founded in the city of Fez in Morocco. Karaouiyine University is 
the oldest educational institution in the
 world and it still has a mosque and a library. 
Karaouiyine University re
-established the concept of a decimal point based on its use in 
India.
 Probably because of Karaouiyine University, at one time, Fez was the largest city on Earth. 
Karaouiyine Universi
ty was founded following a bequest from a remarkable woman, Fatima 
al-Fihria, who had fled from religious persecution in Tunisia.
 Fatima's generosity is greater than it might appear as 
Ñ being a woman 
Ñ she couldn't attend 
her own university. However men 
from all over North Africa, the Middle East and Europe did 
attend this Karaouiyine University and this gathering of students had a major impact on 
mediaeval Europe as the male students included both Muslims and Christians. Karaouiyine 
University had an eff
ect on the decimal metric system in Europe after Gerbert d'Aurillac 
attended there in about 965 (see 965 below).
 800 In Baghdad, a school of science was founded.
   Metrication timeline
 21 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 807 Charlemagne introduced uniform length and weight measures in his empire. Like many kings 
both before and after him he was aiming to reduce the number of existing measurements to 
simplify measurement to reduce cheating. 
Charlemagne tried to standardise 
measurement
 through much of Europe by sending model weights and measures to all parts of his e
mpire. 
Unfortunately
 these failed to overcome centuries of traders, kings, princes, queens, bishops, 
cardinals and popes making their own measures that suited their individual commercial 
practices and aspirations.
 830 The Arab mathematician Abu Ja'far Muha
mmad ibn Musa Al
-Khwarizmi (~790/~840) 
described the use of 0 (zero) in his book, 
Hisab al
-jabr w'al
-muqabala
. He is usually known 
as Al
-Khwarizmi and from his name we get the word, 
algorithm
, for a logical step
-by-step 
procedure. From the name of his book
 we get the name '
algebra
' for that part of mathematics 
where symbols are used to develop general mathematical principles. Another of Al
-Khwarizimi's books is called '
Concerning the Hindu Art of Reckoning
' and this is largely a 
translation of the arithmeti
c and algebra works of the Indian mathematician, '
Brahmagupta
', added to several ancient Greek mathematical manuscripts.
 Our modern numbers are sometimes called Indian/Arabic numbers because Arab scholars 
learned of the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 an
d 0 from the Indian people through the work 
of Al
-Khwarizmi. Latin translations of Al
-Khwarizmi's works spread to Europe after Adelard 
of Bath translated them in the early 12th century (see 1080 below). European people soon 
saw the value of these decimal c
alculating methods.
 In addition to the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 0 Al
-Khwarizmi's works also introduced 
these concepts to a European audience: algebra, astrolabes, astronomical tables, better 
clocks, calculus of two errors (a precursor to diffe
rential calculus), higher
-order equations, 
map theory, trigonometry tables, and volumetric analysis.
 Astrolabes were used 
by astronomers
, navi
gators
, land 
surveyors
, and for 
timekeeping
 both 
on a daily basis and for calendars
. You can predict the
 positions
 of the Sun, Moon, planets 
and stars using an astrolabe. 
The Hindu Arabic numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 0 form the 
basis of the decimal system that we all use today.
 874 Arabic mathematicians used a base 10 positional numeral system, with a zero 
between 
numbers and also after nonzero numbers.
 900 about
 The rod, also called a pole or a perch, was a traditional Saxon land measure that had 
originally been defined as:
 É the total length of the left feet of the first sixteen men to leave church on Sund
ay 
morning.
 960 Around the middle of the 10th century the Saxon King Edgar the Peaceful kept '
The 
Yardstick
' at Winchester as the official standard of measurement for the southern Saxon 
lands. He issued 
a decree that all measures must agree with standards 
kept in Winchester. 
Little is known about this standard of measurement other than its existence in historical 
records.
   Metrication timeline
 22 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 965 about
 One of the people who attended Karaouiyine University (see 789 above) was Gerbert 
d'Aurillac (946/1003) who was a prolific scho
lar and teacher who, even though he was 
French, became Pope Silvester II. Due to his connection with the Islamic world, speculation 
that he had Sephardic
-Jewish ancestry, and especially because of his interests in science and 
intellectual thought, there we
re many rumors about Pope Silvester II being a sorcerer and in 
league with the devil. Gerbert d'Aurillac introduced knowledge of Arabic arithmetic, 
mathematics, and astronomy to Europe, especially to France and Italy including Arabic 
numerals and the conce
pt of zero.
 976 Robert K. G. Temple in his book, 
The Genius of China 
Ñ 3,000 Years of Science, Discovery 
and Invention
 says that the first evidence of decimal numbers in Europe was published in a 
Spanish manuscript.
 1000 to 1500 about
 In medieval Europe, trade guilds set the local laws on weights and measures (largely to suit 
themselves) on a city
-by-city basis. For example, 
an ell was a 
measure
 of length commonly 
used for buying and selling fabrics. In Europe 
the
 length 
of an ell 
varie
d from about 40o 
milli
metres
 Germany, to about 700 millimetres in The Netherlands, and to about 950 
millimetres in Scotland.
 1038 Ibn al
-Haitham Al Hazan, (usually known simply as Al Hazan), one of the earliest 
experimenters and pioneers of optical science
, published seven volumes of experiments, 
mathematics, and explanations of observations that he called '
Optics
'. Al Hazan wrote that vision was the result of rays of light reaching the eye from external 
sources. He taught that light rays emanated in straig
ht lines from every point of a luminous 
object such as the Sun or a star. He also studied reflection by mirrors, and refraction by 
lenses, and magnifying glasses. For his studies on refraction, he wrote about the angle at 
which light is bent when passing f
rom one medium to another. 
 Later, translations of 
Optics
 into Latin influenced scientists, such as Roger Bacon, Ren” 
Descartes
 (1596
-1650),
 Pierre de Fermat
 (1601
-1665)
, and Johannes Kepler
 (1571
-1630)
. 1080 Adelard of Bath (c. 1080/c. 1152) was born in B
ath.
 He is included in this chronology because he introduced Indian/Arabic decimal numbers into 
England and into Europe with the even more important addition of the concept of zero in his 
translation (with commentaries) of al
-Khwarizmi's 
Liber algorismi de
 Numero Indorum
. This was the book that gave us the words 
algorithm
 and 
algebra
. In many ways it was the introduction of Indian/Arabic numbers and the use of zero to 
Europe that helped Europe revive after many centuries of dark ages. The use of zero made i
t possible to calculate without using counters in a checkerboard pattern of squares marked out 
on a table.
 Adelard of Bath developed his ideas when he travelled extensively and studied at Tours and 
Laon in France, Salerno in Italy, Syracuse in Sicily, Athe
ns in Greece, and Antioch in Syria. 
When he returned to England he translated many important Arabic and Greek scientific 
works on astronomy, philosophy and mathematics into Latin. It was Adelard of Bath who 
introduced many of these new ideas to Europe and 
especially to England.
 Sometimes we 
  Metrication timeline
 23 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 forget how much the proto
-science of ancient astronomy has contributed to accuracy in 
measurement.
 His book, 
Natural Questions (Quaestiones Naturales)
, showed how reason and observation 
could be used to explain natural e
vents. Because of his study of these questions, Louise 
Cochrane named Adelard of Bath as the first English scientist in the title of her book, 
Adelard 
of Bath, the First English Scientist
 (British Museum Press 1994).
 1100 The University of Paris was 
founded
 1101 King Henry I of England 
(1100/1135) 
is reported to have introduced a length measure, called 
a yard, equal to the length from his fingertip to his nose. 
King Henry I decreed that a yard is:
 É the distance from the tip of the King's nose to the 
end of his outstretched middle 
finger.
 Before this, and as early as the middle of the tenth century, it was believed that the Saxon 
king Edgar kept a "yardstick" at Winchester as the official standard of measurement. It would 
appear that Henry had lost Edg
ar the Peaceful's '
Yardstick
', or, more likely it had been 
destroyed.
 The story 
about King Henry and his finger 
is probably based on the Chronicles of William of 
Malmesbury (1095/1143) who tells how a '
false yard
' was corrected by referring it to the 
length of King Henry I's arm. However, William does not say that this was the origin of the 
yard; as the word, yard, existed in the keeping of the guilds that dealt in cloth, before Henry I 
was born.
 Whatever the truth of the story about King H
enry I and h
is nose, it is proba
bly true 
that the kingdom needed some sort of standardising laws as several different yards were then 
in use in England.
 The origin of the word 
yard
 to mean a measure of length is not definitely known. Some 
believe the origin was the do
uble cubit; others believe that it came from half a French toise 
(or half a fathom); still others say that it is associated with the word '
gyrd
' or circumference 
of a man's waist. 
Binary numbers divided the early yard
: 2, 4, 8, 
16;
 and the parts were 
known
 as the half
-yard, the span, the finger, and the nail.
 In the time of King Henry I, the Chancellor of the Exchequer got his title from the counting 
checkerboard that he used to count out the king's taxes and expenses. The Exchequer's table 
was covered with
 a cloth with embroidered rows and columns and it was large enough 
(3 metres long and 1.5 metres wide) for calculations to be supervised publicly 
Ñ and you can 
be sure that every move was closely watched. When a zero was needed one of the squares on 
the Ex
chequer's table was simply left empty. It seems likely that Adelard of Bath had an 
official role at the Exchequer's table for Henry I, as this was a time when the use of the abacus 
was increasing 
in England
. 1105/1114 Adelard of Bath travelled to Salerno, 
Spain, Italy, Sicily, Greece and probably Toledo, Asia 
Minor, and North Africa. He is recorded as being in Manistra near Antioch standing on a 
bridge when a severe earthquake struck there in 1114.
 1107 Adelard of Bath wrote a treatise on the use of the Aba
cus, 
Regule Abaci
, a device to help 
calculating problems of arithmetic. Although the abacus is sometimes called an early hand
-held calculator it is really more like a register or accumulator to help you remember where 
  Metrication timeline
 24 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 each number goes than it is like a mod
ern calculator. Adelard recorded the names of the 
Indian/Arabic numbers as:
 Igin (1), Andras (2), Ornis (3), Artoes (4), Quinis (5), Caletes (6), Zenis (7), 
Temerias (8) and Calentes (9).
 The zero (
cifra, circulus, sepos, or theca
) was a little more comple
x as it had several different 
names and symbols that were all some sort of circular shape, sometimes with a bar through 
the middle like the Greek letter theta and sometimes with a dot in the middle like a target. 
For an intriguing treatment of this, I comm
end Robert Kaplan's book, 
The Nothing That Is: 
A Natural History of Zero
. Kaplan suggests '
that O arose from the depression left by a 
circular counter's removal 
' on a sand
-covered counting board. Eventually, however, these 
were simplified into a simple wr
itten circle like o or an oval like 0, which was easier to write 
with a quill pen carved from a feather.
 1116/1152 During these years Adelard of Bath wrote original works and made important translations 
from Greek and Arabic into Latin.
 He wrote 
Natural Qu
estions (Quaestiones Naturales) 
that included more than 50 questions 
on what we would consider today to be scientific matters. Here are some of the questions he 
tried to answer:
 " What is the shape of the Earth (he believed it was round)?
 " Why is the sea salt
y? " Why do some animals see better at night?
 " How are the Sun and the Moon supported in the air?
 " What causes tides?
 " How does the Earth remains stationary in space?
 " How would a rock fall if dropped into a hole through the Earth (centres of gravity)?
 " How is it
 that matter is not destroyed when it changes in chemical reactions 
(conservation of matter)?
 " Why does water experiences difficulty flowing out of a bottle shaped container that has 
been turned upside down (atmospheric pressure and vacuum)?
 To give a 
flavor of his writing, he says of the manners and customs of his own country that:
 É he has learned that its chief men are violent, its magistrates wine
-lovers, its 
judges mercenary, its patrons fickle, private men sycophants, those who make 
promises decei
tful, friends full of jealousy, and almost all men self
-seekers.
 He wrote a book on the astrolabe, 
De opere astrolapsus
, showing how an astrolabe could be 
used to:
 " calculate the heights of buildings and the depth of pits and wells;
 " determine the longitude 
and latitude of any place (the astrolabe continued to be used 
for navigation until the 17th Century);
 " show the precise positions of the stars and planets in relation to the fixed stars;
 " tell the time by day or by night.
 He translated the astronomical table
s of al
-Khwarizmi, 
Zij
. This is now highly regarded, as 
the original manuscript no longer exists.
   Metrication timeline
 25 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 He translated the thirteen books Euclid's 
Elements of Geometry
 into Latin from an Arabic 
translation of the Greek original. Adelard of Bath's translation then
 became the basis of 
European mathematics for many hundreds of years.
 1150 King David I of Scotland defined the inch as the width of a man's thumb at the base of the 
nail.
 1167 The University of Oxford was founded.
 1196 November 20
 King Richard I 
(Richard 
the Lion
 heart) 
of England pr
oclaimed an 
'Assize of Measures
' during which the first documentation of a standardised unit of measurement was made. It 
read:
 Throughout the realm there shall be the same yard of the same size and it should be 
of iron.
 King Ri
chard
 then had 
defined 
standards 
made 
in the form of iron ro
ds as '
the iron yard of 
our Lord the King
' and these were 
distributed throughout the 
nation
. The expression 
'measured by the King's iron rod
' appears frequently in subsequent records
, especially i
n legal records
. Prior to this all English measures were defined in terms of an inch where '
it is ordained that 
3 grains of barley, dry chosen from the middle of the ear, full and round, make an inch; 12 
inches make a foot; 3 feet make an Ulna; and 5 and a
 half Ulnae make a rod
'. 1202 Another man brought Indian/Arabic decimal numbers to Europe. His name was Leonardo of 
Pisa as he was born in the city with the famous Leaning Tower. He is usually called Fibonacci, 
a short form of the Latin 'Filius Bonacci' th
at he used in the title of his book '
Liber Abaci
'. 'Filius Bonacci
' means '
son of Bonacci
' and 
Liber abaci
 means '
The Book of Calculations
'. Fibonacci's father was a merchant who served as a customs officer in Algeria in North Africa 
and his son went with 
him. Fibonacci travelled widely in Algeria and later went on business 
trips to Egypt, Syria, Greece, Sicily and Provence in France. As he travelled he learned the 
different methods that people used to count and to calculate. Fibonacci had a natural talent 
for mathematics and he won many of the calculating contests that were popular at that time.
 When Fibonacci returned to Pisa he used the knowledge gained on his travels to write 
Liber 
abaci
 (The Book of Calculations) in which he again introduced decimal num
bers to Europe. 
The first chapter begins with these words.
 These are the nine figures of the Indians: 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1. With these nine figures, 
and with this sign 0 which in Arabic is called zephirum, any number can be 
written, as will be demonstrated.
 Fibonacci's book became very popular because of the obvious advantages of decimal numbers 
over Roman numerals. However, it was not a smooth transition. Several attempts were made 
by church officials to suppress Fibonacci's book because they believed that i
t was foreign and 
because it came from Islamic scholarship.
 Fibonacci's book was extremely important in starting the progress of getting the decimal 
system universally adopted. Technically, Fibonacci encouraged the use of one of the most 
important 
discoveries of early mathematics 
Ñ a fully positional notation with a 
  Metrication timeline
 26 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 representation for the number zero 
Ñ and now we all learn this in our first few years at 
school.
 Before Adelard of Bath and Leonardo of Pisa, European people were still using the numbers
 left behind by the Roman Empire. Even in the 21st century some people still use Roman 
numerals. For example, notices after films and television programs give the year as 
something like MCMXCVIII (for 1998).
 Our present use of decimal numbers for all of ou
r counting and calculating is based on two 
separate discoveries: the Indian/Arabic decimal numbers brought to Europe by Adelard of 
Bath and Leonardo of Pisa and the decimal point from John Napier, Laird of Merchiston, in 
1616 (see below). The word, decimal
, is derived from the Latin decimus, meaning a tenth.
 Our decimal number system is called a base 10 system because it is a positional numeral 
system using 10 as its base and requiring 10 different numerals, the digits 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 
8, 9, and a co
mma or a dot (called the decimal marker or the decimal point).
 Nevertheless in 1986, despite the long history of people using decimal numbers, Witold Kula 
in his book, 
Measures and Men
, felt a need to re
-argue the case against using decimal 
numbers in favo
r of numbers based on halves (1/2, 1/4, 1/8, 1/16 etc), duodecimals (divided 
by 12s), vigesimals (divided by 20s), and sexdecimals (divided by 60s).
 1209 The University of Cambridge was founded.
 1215 A major attempt to standardise English measures was incl
uded in the 
Magna Carta
. The 
English King John, also known as 'Lackland', was forced by his Barons to sign a document 
called the 
Magna Carta
, which among other things had a clause that provided for uniform 
weights and measures. In part the 
Magna Carta
 read
: 'There shall be one measure of wine throughout our whole realm, and one measure 
of ale and one measure of corn 
Ð namely, the London quarter; 
Ð and one width of 
dyed and resset and hauberk cloths 
Ð namely, two ells below the selvage. And with 
weights, mor
eover, it shall be as with measures.'
 To see a copy of the original Magna Carta go to: 
http://www.bl.uk/treasures/magnacarta/magna_main.html
 Clearly the Magna Carta was
, among other things
, another attempt to standardise measures, 
particularly of wine and beer, throughout England.
 1242 Roger Bacon (1214
-1294) is famous for making accurate predictions without any 
experiments. For example, he believed that the earth was round and that people 
could sail all 
the way around it; this was not done until some of 
Ferdinand Magellan's crew returned to 
Spain in 
1522.
 Roger Bacon carried out experiments on lenses and mirrors and he made his own magnifying 
glasses. He was the first person to think of a r
efracting telescope but he didn't make one. In 
1242, he invented and wrote exact formulas for making gunpowder, which was in regular 
military use within 100 years.
 1266 King Henry III set out a standard based on the weight of grains of wheat:
   Metrication timeline
 27 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 The English p
enny which is called a sterlyng, round and uncut, ought to weigh 32 
grains of wheate taken from the middle of the ear. And the ounce to weigh 20 
pennies. And 12 ounces make the London pound, that is to say 20 shillings sterlyng.
 In England, 
this was yet 
another attempt to standardise 
measurement.
 This law made a clear 
connection between 
money and mass, in that 240 pennies (of money) was made equal to one 
pound (of mass). 
The same law also provided for eight pounds to be the weight of a gallon of 
wine. Des
pite this attempt to standardise measurements,
 variations and abuses still 
continued until long after the law was passed. For example, there were still three different 
gallons (ale, wine and corn).
 1267 Roger Bacon sent a copy his Opus Majus (Latin for Gre
ater Work) to Pope Clement IV. In this 
840 page book, Roger Bacon writes about: his explanation of the colors of the rainbow, his 
recipe for gunpowder, his proof that a candle will not burn without air, several studies of 
gases including some thoughts on h
ot air balloons, his description of a telescope, his thoughts 
on ships going without sails, and his description of the relationship between philosophy and 
theology that concluded that Holy Scripture is the foundation of all sciences.
 1272 Gradually in Engl
and, the kings and queens responded to the requirements of the 
Magna 
Carta
 (see 1215)
. However,
 standards of measurement were not firmly established until later 
in the 13th century, though variations (and abuses) continued until long after that. King 
Edwar
d I of England took a step forward in 1272 when he ordered a permanent measuring 
stick made of iron to serve as a master standard yardstick for the entire kingdom. This master 
yardstick was called the "iron ulna", after the bone of the forearm, and it was 
standardized as 
close to the length of a modern yard (now defined as exactly 914.4 millimetres).
 King Edward I realized that constancy and permanence were the key to any standard. He also 
decreed that the foot measure should be one
-third the length of the 
yard, and the inch one 
thirty
-sixth.
 During Edward I's reign (1272
-1307) the Ulna (or yard) and its sub
- and aggregated divisions 
were defined in terms of barleycorns:
 It is remembered that the Iron Ulna of our Lord the King contains three feet and no 
more; and the foot must contain twelve inches, measured by the correct measure of 
this kind of ulna; that is to say, one thirty
-sixth part (of) the said ulna makes one 
inch, neither more nor less É It is ordained that three grains of barley, dry and 
round 
make an inch, twelve inches make a foot; three feet make an ulna; five and a 
half ulna makes a perch (rod); and forty perches in length and four perches in 
breadth make an acre.
 The perch or rod was also used at this time. It 
had previously been
 defined as
 the total length 
of the left feet of the first sixteen men to leave church on Sunday morning.
 1297 King Edward I (1239/1307) agreed to the Charter of Confirmation that established the 
parliament in the UK as a representative body and it promoted the impor
tance of Magna 
Carta by declaring all judgments contrary to this document to be null and void. This gave this 
line from the Magna Carta more relevance as the '
supreme law of the land
': There shall be one measure of wine throughout our whole realm, and one 
measure 
of ale and one measure of corn É
 King Edward I was popularly known as Longshanks because of his extraordinary height, of 
1.9
 metres.
   Metrication timeline
 28 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1299 Catholic church leaders issue an edict that forbids the bankers of Florence from using 
the 
'infidel
' decimal n
umerals
. 1300 Although the Greeks knew that a lodestone could attract iron Flavio Gioja, an Italian marine 
pilot, is credited with perfecting the sailor's compass by freely suspending a magnetised 
needle and enclosing the compass in a box with a glass cove
r. The compass was soon used to 
discovering many new lands.
 1302 The …tats G”n”raux, the General Assembly of France, met using the motto '
One king, one 
law, one weight, one measure
.' After several sessions, it was discovered that the noblemen 
and the guild
s were bribing politicians to vote against reform of weight and measures 
because they were profiting greatly from the prevailing measuring confusion.
 1303 In England an Assize of Weights and Measures was held and another attempt was made to 
standardise mea
sures. One of its decrees was:
 É an English penny, which shall be called sterling, round without clipping, shall 
weigh 32 grains of wheat dry in the midst of the ear, and twenty pence do make an 
ounce, and 12 ounces one pound and 8
 pounds do make a gallon 
of wine, and 8 
gallons do make a London bushel, which is the eighth part of a quarter.
 From this it is clear that several units with the same name 
Ð pound 
Ð were to measure mass, 
weight, money, and capacity or volume. At the time there were several English
 pounds: the 
Tower pound was probably the one meant by the Assize, but there were also lighter pounds 
such as the subtill pound and the foyle pound. Later the troy pound and the avoirdupois 
pounds, both from France, joined all the other pounds in England.
 1304 A law was promulgated in England that, for medicines, a pound would weigh the same as 20 
shillings of money, or 12 ounces of weight. Other things, which were not medicines, were to 
be weighed with a pound of 15 ounces. However, in both cases, an ounce
 was the same weight 
as 20 pennies.
 1324 The inch was re
-established in England as the length of three barley grains taken from the 
center of an ear by King Edward II when he reverted back to the seed concept of the anci
ents 
and passed a statute that 
three
 barleycorns, round and dry
 make an inch.
 The 'yardstick' of 
Edward I was no longer legal. This barleycorn definition also redefined the foot, yard, rod, 
pole, perch, and mile to suit the new, highly variable, inch.
 1335 The word clock is associated with b
ells. If a device for keeping time does not have some sort 
of a bell, it is technically called a timepiece.
 There was a mechanical clock working in Milan in 1335. In 
A history of mechanical 
inventions
, Abbott Payson Usher quotes from 
Mesure du Temps
 by Ber
thoud who describes 
this clock as follows:
   Metrication timeline
 29 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 There is a wonderful clock, because there is a very large clapper which strikes a 
bell twenty
-four times, according to the XXIV hours of the day and night, and thus 
at the first hour of the night gives one sound, 
at the second two strokes, at the third 
three and at the fourth four; and so distinguishes one hour from another, which is 
of the greatest use to men of every degree.
 The Milan clock is regarded as the first mechanical clock because although there might ha
ve 
been clocks before then, evidence for them is limited. Several more mechanical clocks were 
operating in Italy by 1350.
 1350 Around 1350, nobles and clergy who had properties on both sides of the channel were 
introducing measuring methods from France. Us
ing two measuring methods, English and 
French, soon led to confusion. Edward III, Henry V and Henry VII all tried and failed to 
simplify exchange between the two methods.
 1400 England was another nation that had developed a decimal system. The English syst
em at this 
time also had 100 fathoms in a furlong and ten furlongs in a mile. This was operational in the 
early fifteenth century.
 It had a measure called a 'wand' that in modern terms would be 1007 mm long 
Ð only a bit 
longer than the modern metre. An int
eresting use of this 1007
 mm wand was to make a tun, 
which was a box 1007
 mm long, wide, and high. This was used to store dried grain for one 
family for a year. Each full moon you checked progress; if the level had fallen more than a 
man's hand width (abou
t 100 mm), rationing was required or the tun would not last till next 
harvest.
 1440 Henry VI's advisers changed the developing decimal system in England back to non
-decimal 
methods, somewhere around 1440. More complicated measuring methods have, throughout
 history, often replaced simple measures, 
usually
 for 
commercial, 
political
, or religious
 reasons.
 1450 In a Latin codex, a collection of ancient manuscript texts published in Munich, Theodericus 
Ruffi used a decimal division of the degree.
 1452 Leonardo d
a Vinci (1452
-1519) Leonardo da Vinci is the usual name given to Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci and this is 
usually shortened simply to Leonardo.
 Leonardo da Vinci is widely considered to be one of the greatest painters of all time; he is 
especially rememb
ered for the Mona Lisa (15
03) and The Last Supper (1495).
 More importantly for the metric system, Leonardo was an anatomist, architect, botanist, 
engineer, geologist, inventor, mathematician, musician, painter, scientist, sculptor, and 
writer
 who constantl
y measured so he could invent
. His inventions included: helicopters, 
hydraulic pumps, mortar shells, musical instruments, parachutes, reversible crank 
mechanisms, and steam cannons.
 Leonardo da Vinci was interested in the measurement of time and he observe
d pendulums 
swinging and suggested that they did so with a regular beat for any given length of string as 
  Metrication timeline
 30 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 long as they didn't swing too far from side to side. Leonardo made this observation a century 
earlier than Galileo Galilei, but neither of them actual
ly built a pendulum based clock.
 1466 A Chart of Nicolaus Germanus divided the degree into 60 equal divisions that he called miles. 
His map was based on the incorrect Earth diameter of 
Ptolemy (about 30
 000 km instead of 
40 000 km
) but it neatly gave him a
 nautical mile that was, he thought, near enough to the 
same length as a Roman statute mile. This error became the world standard for at least a 
hundred years, especially in shipping communities.
 1476 Caxton invented the printing press.
 1482 Johannes Campa
nus probably used Adelard of Bath's translation of the 13 books of Euclid's 
Elements when he published his first printed edition of this book after the invention of the 
printing press. This then became the chief textbook of the mathematical schools of Euro
pe 
and it continued in use into the 20th century.
 1492 Claudius Ptolemaeus (85/165) was
 an astronomer, a geographer, and a mathematician 
who 
lived in Alexandria in Egypt. In the year 150, Ptolemy drew a map of the world that included 
China, Sri Lanka, and parts of Malaysia. He also estimated the circumference of the world 
Ñ but at about 30
 000 kilometres, he got it wrong 
Ñ the circumference of 
the world is 
quite 
close to 40
 000 kilometres.
 Columbus sailed around an Earth that was at least 33
 % larger 
than he was led to believe.
 The Claudius Ptolemaeus map was the kind of map and scale used by Christopher Columbus. 
The navigators of Columbus' time did not have any sort of timing device to find the exact 
longitude of where they were. The best 15th Century information available to C
olumbus came 
from Ptolemy. The error by Ptolemy directly resulted in Columbus' declaring that he had 
reached and was exploring India when he had only got to what we now call America. 
Columbus thought he had sailed through enough degrees of longitude to 
rea
ch India.
 Since Christopher Columbus' time more accurate measurements of the world's circumference 
kept changing until we finally came to accept 40
 005 kilometres as a good average.
 Francisco Pellos (1450/1500) 
published
 a commercial arithmetic book called
 Compendio de 
lo abaco
, where he used a dot to represent division by 10. He used terms such as: '
numbre 
desenal
' and '
numbre plus que desenal
' to refer to decimal numbers.
 1494 It is thought that Henry VII (1485
-1509) went back 350 years to obtain his leng
th standard. It 
is likely that he made a direct copy of the old standard '
Yardstick
' of Edgar I (the Peaceful), 
one of the earliest Anglo
-Saxon standards.
 King Henry VII tried to make his measurement 
and weight methods binding on all the people in England.
 1496 As unscrupulous traders had introduced many more measuring discrepancies into English 
market places, new standards 
of length 
were 
ordered
 following a parliamentary inquiry.
   Metrication timeline
 31 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1497 It is thought that Henry VII (1485
-1509) went back 350 years to obtain h
is standard, and it is 
likely that it may have been a direct copy of the old standard of Edgar, 'the yardstick', one of 
the earliest Anglo
-Saxon standards. This yard, of Henry VII, became known as the 
Exchequers Standard because of where it was stored. Thi
s yard in now housed in the London 
Science Museum. It is thought that this new yard (915
 mm), with its associated foot one third 
of its length (305
 mm), was an attempt to secure uniformity of the basic length units instead 
of the diversity of '
foot
' measur
es that had survived from earlier times in England and Wales. 
They included:
 " Greek common foot
 317
 mm " Roman foot
   296
 mm " Welsh foot
   251 mm " Saxon foot
   335 mm  1507 In his book, 
Mercator: the man who mapped the planet
 (Phoenix Paperback 2002), Nicholas 
Crane wrote:
 West of the Rhine, in the mountains of Lorraine, the remarkable Martin 
Waldseemller launched his cartographic career in 1507 with a book 
- Cosmographiae introductio 
- in which he (or his collaborator Matthias Ringmann) 
suggested that the cont
inent visited by Columbus should be named after Amerigo 
Vespucci.
 Nicholas Crane then quotes Waldseemller as follows:
 Since another fourth part [of the world] has been discovered by Americus 
Vesputius, I do not see why anyone should object to its being ca
lled after Americus 
the discoverer, a man of natural wisdom, Land of Americus or America, since both 
Europe and Asia have derived their names from women. Cosmographiae 
introductio was accompanied by a globe (on which was marked the continent 
'America') and
 a large map of the world 'containing the islands and countries 
recently discovered by the Spaniard Americus
 Vespucius in the western sea.
 1512 'A Tractado subtilisimo d'arithmetica y de geometria
' by Juan de Ortega (1480/1568) 
referred to '
lo numero 
decenale
'. It used decimal numbers for commercial arithmetic and for 
geometry.
 1519 Ferdinand Magellan (1480/1521) was a Portuguese maritime explorer who tried to find a way 
to the Spice Islands of Indonesia by sailing west from Portugal. He had earlier 
travelled 
eastward to the Spice Islands, so he became one of the first to sail all the way around the 
world.
 Magellan had access to charts, a globe, theodolites, quadrants, compasses, magnetic 
needles, 
hourglasses
, and timepieces.
 Although, within crude li
mits, speed and compass indications could be used to determine 
estimated distance and estimated longitude, Magellan was not able to determine his exact 
longitude because he didn't have an accurate way of telling the time. He could only use an 
approximate p
rocess called dead reckoning. What he needed was a chronometer but this had 
not yet been 
invented
.   Metrication timeline
 32 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1528 King James V (1512/1542) was nominally King of Scotland from 1513 
when he was less than a 
year old, 
but effectively he did not become king until 1528. F
or a standard of length the Scots 
had 
to rely on
 James V's pronouncement that:
 Tak' the meesure of a sma' maun's nose to his finger
-tip. Tak' the same from a 
reeg'lar maun, and a meikle maun. Combine all and divide by three. Yon is yi'r 
Yaird.
 1530 The Fre
nch mathematician, Orontius Fineus (1494/1555), discovered the trick of moving the 
decimal point. When he wanted the square root of 10 he found the square root of 10
 000 000 instead, and then moved the decimal marker three places to the left. In a modern n
otation his 
calculation would look like this:
 If 
!
10
 000 000 = 3162 then 
!10 = 3.162
 Gerard Mercator 
(1512
-1594) 
named the continent that was north of America as '
Americae 
pars Septentrionalis
' that translates as 
North America
. The land now known as South 
America had been named '
America
' in 1507 (see above). It is thought that Mercator named 
the new continent after Spain's most famous navigator, Amerigo Vespucci, who was also 
known as Americus Vesputius.
 In his book, 
Mercator: the man who mapped the planet
 (Phoenix Paperback 2002), Nicholas 
Crane suggests that 
Mercator might been influenced by councillors from the Spanish court, 
which at that time was located in Brussels? 
Nicholas Crane thinks that several councillors 
from the Spanish Court might have influe
nced Mercator when he wrote:
 Surely, it was these councillors who prompted Mercator to occupy 'North America' 
with the only historical caption of its size on the map, a caption which read 
'Hispania maior capta anno 1530' 
- 'Greater Spain, seized in the yea
r 1530'.
 Thus, the most modern world map in the Low Countries confirmed that America 
was not only separate from Asia, but that it had a northern relative who was 
larger even than Europe, and that both Americas belonged to Spain. With a single 
nomenclative 
flourish, Mercator had erected an Imperial barrier to the Indies that 
ran from pole to pole.
 1533 Peter Apian (1495/1552), a German mathematician and astronomer, published a table of 
sines with the radius divided decimally in his book of 
'Trigonometrical T
ables (Natural)
'. Nicholas Crane in his book, 
Mercator: the man who mapped the planet
, reports how 
Mercator's mathematics tutor, Gemma Frisius, describes how to survey any area by 
triangulation. Crane writes:
 É Gemma described how to survey an area of any size on the basis of a single 
ground measurement. All his readers required was a makeshift instrument: a flat 
piece of wood inscribed with a graduated circle, from the centre of which revolved 
a pointer 
- an al
idade 
- fitted with pins, for sights. By holding the 'planimetrum' 
level and orienting it with a compass so that its north
-south line was parallel with 
magnetic north, the surveyor could rotate the pointer until its sights were aligned 
with the landmark in
 question. The bearing was read from the graduated circle. By 
taking bearings from two landmarks, the position of a third could be fixed. Gemma 
suggested that the surveyor began by ascending a suitable highpoint, such as the 
tallest tower in a town, taking
 a series of bearings in a circle, then adding them to 
a circle drawn on paper. 
(He)
 then described how to repeat the process from a 
  Metrication timeline
 33 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 second tower, using the intersecting sight
-lines to fix each landmark. Gemma 
finally pointed out that a third set of bearin
gs would resolve any problems caused 
by two sight
-lines converging in a
 straight line. Coasts and rivers, he added, could 
be mapped in the same way.
 To draw a map to a known scale, continued Gemma, the surveyor needed to create 
a base
-line by measuring the
 actual distance between two of the centres. He gave 
Mechelen and Antwerp as an example, and described how to replicate their 
relative positions at a reduced scale on the map. Distances between other places on 
the map could be calculated using similar tria
ngles. (In walking from Louvain to 
Antwerp, Mercator had effectively followed Gemma's instruction that a base
-line 
could be measured 'by walking over this distance'. A measured base
-line from 
Louvain to Antwerp would have been sufficient to embark upon the
 first 
math
ematical survey of the region.)
 This triangulation 
technique
 Ñ invented by Gemma Frisius and then developed by Gerard 
Mercator
 Ñ was essentially the 
same 
method used by Jean
-Baptiste Delambre and Pierre 
Fran“ois
-Andr” M”chain for their measureme
nt of the meridian 
between Dunkerque in 
France and Barcelona in Spain 
from
 1792 (see below).
 1543 Nicolas Copernicus (1473
-1543) published his description of the solar system with the Sun in 
the centre and the planets revolving around it.
 1557 King Henry 
II, of France, issued a weights and measures edict at a time when the 
predominant issue of the French government was about disputes between catholics and 
protestants.
 1560 Giambattista della Porta (1538
-1615) founded the Academia Secretorum Naturae (Academ
y of Nature's Secrets). This is thought to be the first academy of science in the world.
 1564 Galileo Galilei (1564/1642) was born in Tuscany in Italy. Galileo learned about Aristotelian 
physics at the university of Pisa but he soon began to question Arist
otle's approach. Aristotle 
had a qualitative and verbal approach, but Galileo preferred a quantitative and mathematical 
approach to learning.
 Aristotle believed, and argued without any evidence, that heavy bodies fall faster than light 
ones. Galileo follow
ed the example of Simon Stevin in Flanders 
who had
 dropped two objects 
from a high place and noticed that they both hit the ground so closely together that he 
couldn't notice any difference between 
the sounds they made 
when they arrived at the 
ground.
 Gali
leo championed the astronomical ideas of Copernicus who promoted the idea that the 
Earth moved around the Sun. This was in disagreement with the belief, strongly argued by 
Aristotle, that the Earth was the centre of the Universe and that the Sun went aroun
d the 
Earth every day.
 Unfortunately for Galileo, the Catholic Church agreed with the Aristotle's conjecture, and so 
Galileo was eventually forced to recant his heliocentric ideas
 Ñ with the Sun in the centre of 
the solar system
 Ñ and 
he 
was condemned to s
pend the last years of his life under house 
arrest on orders of the Catholic Church Inquisition.
 Galileo Galilei is now described by Wikipedia like this:
   Metrication timeline
 34 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Galileo has been called the 'father of modern observational astronomy', the 'father 
of modern physics'
, the 'father of science', and 'the father of modern science
'. 1569 Gerhard Kremer, who is universally known as Gerardus Mercator 
or simply as Mercator, 
drew a world globe map that was marked with 
the 
longitude 
marked in 
180 degrees 
East and 
West, and with latitude marked from 
0 degrees 
to 90
 degrees from South to North. After 
correcting some errors this gave us a map where every point could be described in terms of 
degrees of latitude and longitude. Mercator used Ptolemy's method of 
dividing degrees so 
that e
ach degree of longitude had divisions of 60 miles equal to a statute 
nautical 
mile and 
each 
nautical 
mile was again divided into 60 units called minutes and each minute was again 
divided into 60 units called seconds.
 1574 Citizens
 in London complained:
 The weights used throughout this our realm are uncertain and varying one from 
another, to the great slander of our realm.
 1581 Galileo (1564
-1642) began his studies of medicine in Pisa.
 1582 Queen Elizabeth I (1533/160
3) appointed a 
jury 
'to sort out
' England's weigh
ing and 
measuring
 problems
. The 21 men on the jury failed
 to agree on better methods
, so she 
appointed a second jury. It took them 6 years to arrive at a solution (see 1588).
 Kepler (1571
-1630) developed his pendulum 
theory that it was the length of the pendulum 
that was related to the time for each swing; the mass on the end of the pendulum was 
unimportant.
 1582 February 24
 The Gregorian calendar was introduced because the old Julian calendar year had been 
slightly to
o long and this caused a drift of the seasons because, in the Julian calendar, all 
years exactly divisible by 4 were leap years.
 To counter this trend a Calabrian doctor Aloysius Lilius devised a new calendar with these 
rules:
 Every year that is exactly di
visible by four is a leap year, except for years that are 
exactly divisible by 100; the centurial years that are exactly divisible by 400 are 
still leap years. For example, the year 1900 is not a leap year; the year 2000 is a 
leap year.
 The changes made by
 Aloysius Lilius also corrected the drift in the civil calendar by dropping 
10 days to bring the calendar back into synchronization with the seasons.
 Because Pope Gregory XIII formally decreed the new calendar it has been called the 
'Gregorian calendar
' si
nce. There are others but the calendar 
developed by Aloysius Lilius 
is 
the most widely used calendar in the world today.
 Although Aloysius Lilius went close to 
aligning the calendar with the length of the true year it still moves slightly. A recent 
suggestion is to make years divisible by 4000 normal years rather than leap years to improve 
the accuracy of the calendar.
   Metrication timeline
 35 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1584 The Flemish engineer and surveyor, Simon Stevin (1548/1620), from Brugge in Belgium, 
published a set of tables for working out the amount of interest that banks should charge for 
lending money. As he was working out these tables he realised that decimal n
umbers could 
make all calculations in all areas of life much easier. Stevin came to believe that the use of 
decimals could rid the world of the cumbersome common, or vulgar, fractions with all of 
their various calculating difficulties.
 1585 Simon Stevin (1
548/1620)
 published two books
 that were essentially the same
. De Thiende
 (Of Tenths) was written in Flemish and 
La Disme
 (The Tenths) was written in French. These 
were decimal arithmetic books in which Simon Stevin described the use of decimal numbers. 
These were the first books where the simplicity of decimal numbers was fully explained. 
Because of these books, the invention of decimal fractions is 
often
 attributed to Simon Stevin.
 Although decimal fractions had been invented, lost, then re
-invented severa
l times 
previously, they had never been in widespread use. Common fractions and hexadecimal 
fractions were also available, but these were regarded as difficult to use.
 Clearly, Simon 
Stevin had in mind that decimal numbers could be used for all crafts, tra
des, and professions 
when he wrote the dedication to his two books on '
Tenths
': Simon Stevin wishes the stargazers, surveyors, carpet measurers, body measurers 
in general, coin measurers and tradespeople good luck.
 Simon Stevin was born in Flanders (Belgiu
m) but spent his adult life in the service of the 
Republic of the Netherlands. He was a military engineer and tutor in mathematics and 
adviser in finance and navigation to the rulers: William of Orange and Maurice of Nassau. He 
organized the school of engi
neering at the University of Leiden and wrote textbooks on 
engineering and bookkeeping as well as arithmetic.
 Stevin explained in very definite terms the advantages to be gained by using decimal fractions 
in all mathematical operations and those to be deri
ved from the decimal subdivision of the 
units of length, area, capacity, money value, etc.
 Stevin states in his Introduction that the purpose of his books, 
De Thiende
 and 
La Disme
 is to 
teach the easy performance of '
all reckonings, computations, and accou
nts
' without common 
or vulgar 
fractions. He wrote that his book:
 É teaches us all calculations that are needed by the people without using fractions. 
One can reduce all operations to adding, subtracting, multiplying and dividing 
with integers.
 Stevin's
 tec
hnique was based on writing a whole number followed by the symbol (0) (0 with a 
circle around it)
 to represent the units and then e
ach
 tenth of a unit,
 is written as 
a single 
digit 
Ñ possibly 0 
Ñ followed by (1) 
(1 with a circle around it), then another si
ngle digit 
Ñ possibly 0 
Ñ followed by (2) (2 with a circle around it) and so on.
 For example
, the fraction 123 456/1000 would be written by Simon Stevin as:
 123 (0) 4 (1) 5 (2) 6 (3)
 Stevin called these decimal numbers and the symbols (1) etc signs.
 Now we
 would write this more simply as:
 123.456
 or as 
123,456
 It depends on which decimal marker we choose, b
ut it still means 123 456/1000.
 Simon Stevin
 describes 
in his books 
how to add, multiply, subtr
act and divide decimal 
numbers. If you would like to learn more about Simon Stevin's decimal numbers and his 
  Metrication timeline
 36 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 decimal arithmetic you could start with an English translation of his books published by 
Robert Norton in 1608. You will find the complete text of 
Robert Norton's English translation 
at http://home.wxs.nl/~hopfam/Dime.html
  Although Simon Stevin
 suggested a number of decimal 
methods
 for various activities, 
he made no attempt at any coordination betwe
en them
; he did not devise a decimal '
system
'. Simon could see no reason why the following items could not be 
calculated using decimal 
numbers
 Ñ immediately 
Ñ in 1585.
 " Compilations of Land Meting 
Ð to be divided into decimal Rods and decimal Perches.
 " Measu
res of Tapestry or Cloth 
Ð to be divided into decimal Ells and Poles
 " Measures of Liquor vessels 
Ð1 decimal Ame to be equal to 100 Antwerp Pots
 " Stereometry in General 
Ð to be divided into decimal Rods and Yards
 " On Astronomical Calculations 
Ð the circle to b
e divided into decimal angles
 " Moneymasters Merchants and all Estates in General 
Ð to be divided into decimal 
Pounds sterling, decimal Livres de gros and decimal Ducats.
 The last of these was probably the suggestion that eventually led to the worldwide use 
of 
decimal money 
through the activities and leadership of
 Benjamin Franklin, Thomas 
Jefferson, and George Washington in the USA. 
 In her biography of  John Wilkins, '
John Wilkins 1614
-1672 An Intellectual Biography
' (University of California Press 1969), B
arbara J. Shapiro makes it clear that he knew about 
Simon Stevin's work. Writing about John Wilkins (see 1620 and 1668 below) she said:
 He seems to have been familiar with the most advanced work in the field, including 
that of Galileo and Simon Stevinus.
 Another contribution to the modern world made by Simon Stevin's was the introduction of 
double
-entry bookkeeping, the replacement of the sexagesimal system by the decimal system 
for almost all measurement, and his opposition to the exclusive use of Latin i
n scientific 
writing; after 1583 he published only in Flemish or French.
 1586 Simon Stevin's name became prominent in the history of science when he dropped two 
spheres of lead, one ten times the mass of the other, from a height of about 10 metres onto a 
piece of board. Simon and his friends noticed that the sounds of the balls striking the board 
were almost simultaneous. Galileo Galilei did a similar experiment some time later.
 1588 Elizabeth I 
(1533/1603) 
issued a new standard yard that remained the legal
 British yard for 
over 300 years until 1824, when an Act of Parliament under George IV superseded it. This 
Act attempted to introduce systems of measures more widely into British society and remove 
inaccuracies a
ssociated with measurement. The
 yard 
ordered
 by Elizabeth I is
 now stored in 
the London Science Museum.
 The new standards, made for length and for mass, were cast in metal and 
57 co
pies 
of the 
standards were made for
 ke
eping
 in 
market 
towns 
all 
around the 
nation
. Precious metals and 
stones, however,
 were still to be 
weighed in '
grains
'. One of these standards
, a new standard yard,
 consists of an iron bar with a square cross 
section, about 13
 millimetres o
n each side. The standard yard wa
s the distance between its 
ends. 
This was the legal British yard
 for more than 300 years even though
, sometime 
between 1760 and 1819, i
t was broken and
 repaired. This bar still exists in the Science 
Museum in London and it has been measured at 914.15
 millimetres 
Ñ a little shorter that the 
  Metrication timeline
 37 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 (1959) 
International standard
 yard 
that is now 
based on metric system units 
(that is 
914.40
 millimetres exactly).
 The term '
statute mile
' also originated with Queen Elizabeth I. When she changed the 
definition of the mile from the Roman mile of 5000 feet to 5280 feet she did so by iss
uing a 
statute. This was largely irrelevant until the USA decided to issue their own statute mile by 
redefining the length of a statute foot 
Ð for the USA 
Ð as 1200/3937 metre or approximately 
0.3048006096 metres. Since then agreements have been made to de
fine the length of a mile 
as exactly 1.609
 344 kilometres and this is known as the international mile.
 1591 Galileo Galilei repeated Simon Stevin's experiment when he dropped weights of different 
sizes from a tower in Pisa.
 1592 During the reign of Elizabeth I the statute mile was defined as 5,280 ft or 1,760 yards; or 
63,360 inches. The statute mile were divided into eight furlongs (the length that a furrow 
could be
 ploughed before the 
ox or 
oxen
 had to be
 rested (the word furlon
g is a contraction of 
the words furrow 
long). A furlong was defined as 
40 rods long
; each rod was defined 
as 
5 1/2
 yards; each yard was 
three feet, making up 5
280 feet to one Queen Elizabeth I mile 
(depending on the length of the 5280 feet).
 Since 1592 the
 length of the mile
 (and all of the 
other old pre
-metric measures mentioned here)
 has changed whenever the definition of the 
yard and the foot changed. Currently, the mile used in the UK is a '
metric mile
' as it is based 
on the length of the metre; the 
met
ric mile
 is exactly 1609.344
 metres long.
 Galileo invented a thermometer for measuring temperatures based on the expansion and 
contraction of air enclosed in a glass container.
 1595 Bartholomaeus Pitiscus used a notation for his trigonometrical tables that
 included the idea 
of a decimal point. This is considered to be the first use of the decimal point that we now all 
use quite regularly.
 The English Parliament voted to make an English mile equal to exactly 5280 feet so that it 
would be exactly 8 furlongs
 in an English mile
. 1597 Juan Fernandez de Velasco, the Governor of Lombardy, ordered the standardization of all 
local measures according to the Milanese standard. All attempts to carry out his reform failed 
so badly that his successor, de Fuentes, called i
t off in 1605 and before long, the matter was 
forgotten.
 Henry Briggs (1561/1631) was the first Gresham Professor of Geometry where he worked on 
astronomy, navigation, and on devising mathematical tables for finding such things as the 
height of the pole st
ar and eclipses. He also invented the method of long division using 
decimal numbers that 
many
 of us learned
 at school.
 1600  Francois Vi”te (1540/1603) advocated the use of decimal numbers using a comma ',' as the 
decimal marker (he called it the separatri
x) with an underbar for the fractional part. Here is 
an example:
 1234,
5678   Metrication timeline
 38 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Vi”te also suggested the decimal division of degrees, minutes, and seconds for measuring 
angles.
 1602 Galileo Galilei (1564/1642) discovered that the longer the string on a 
pendulum, then the 
slower it swung and that the width of the pendulum's arc or of the weight of the pendulum 
bob made little difference to the time of the swing. That is, the period of a pendulum (the 
time it takes for pendulum to swing back and forth) dep
ends almost solely on the length of 
the pendulum. The tradition is that Galileo first began to think about the motion of 
pendulums as he watched suspended lamps swinging back and forth in the cathedral of Pisa 
instead of attending to the church service.
 One of Galileo's most significant observations was based on his studies of the pendulum. 
Galileo found the exact length for a pendulum to swing through its arc in exactly one second 
in Pisa. This became known as a '
seconds pendulum
'. A seconds pendulum is a 
pendulum 
whose period is exactly two seconds; one second for a swing in one direction and one second 
for the return swing.
 We now know that 
a seconds
 pendulum varies according to where it is on the Earth. For 
example: at the equator the secondsÕ pendulum i
s 991
 millimetres long; at the North Pole it is 
996 millimetres; and at 45¡ North of the equator it is in between, at 994
 millimetres.
 The 
pendulum is mentioned in two of Galileo's books: 
Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World 
Systems
 (1632) and 
Dialogues
 Concerning Two New Sciences
 (1638).
 Galileo suggested that his observations of pendulums might be used to make a more accurate 
clock but, like Leonardo da Vinci before him, he never got around to making one. 
 The idea of a fixed standard length for a cloc
k pendulum proved to be particularly intriguing 
for scientists at that time. Galileo's discovery spread quickly throughout the world, especially 
in Europe, and soon led to further study of time intervals and the development of pendulum 
clocks where most of
 the '
long
-case
' models were made with a pendulum that was close to 
being one metre long.
 1603 Federico Cesi founded the Accademia dei Lincei, in Rome, for the study of mathematics and 
natural sciences. See 
http://www.lin
cei.it
  Johann Hartmann Beyer (1563/1625) published a book, 
Logistica Decimalis
, in which he 
claimed to be the inventor of decimal numbers.
 1608 When Simon Stevin's book was translated into English, Robert Norton, an '
engineer and 
gunner
', gave it the titl
e 'Disme: The Art of Tenths
 or 
Decimall Arithmeticke
'. From 
this title, the USA eventually used the word 'Disme' (without the silent internal 's') as the 
name of the coin that is a tenth of a dollar. The dime in the USA is quite likely the world's 
only coi
n that was named after a book!
 You can read Robert Norton's translation at 
http://home.wxs.nl/~hopfam/Dime.html
  1609 Johannes Kepler (1571
-1630) published his Laws of Planetary Motion.
 Galileo began to 
use the telescope, developed by Lippershey in 1608, for astronomy
 1610 Galileo discovered Jupiter's moons, sunspots, and stars in the Milky Way Galaxy.
   Metrication timeline
 39 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1613 Richard Witt published another 
English 
translation of Simon Stevin's '
Decimal Arithmetic
' in 
Englis
h. 1614 The Estates General met in France. This meeting consisted of the three French Estates; the 
first estate was the church; the second estate was the nobles; and the third estate was the 
commoners.
 The Scottish laird John Napier developed logarithms. T
hese were designed to replace lengthy 
calculations using multiplication and division with easier calculations using addition and 
subtraction. At Gresham College in London, Henry Briggs was enthusiastic about the:
 É new and remarkable logarithms. I never sa
w a Book which pleased me better or 
made me more wonder.
 John Wilkins was born at Fawsley, Northamptonshire. His father was a goldsmith, and his 
grandfather was a vicar.
 1615 John Napier, Laird of Merchiston used a comma as a decimal marker to separate the
 whole 
number part from the decimal number part in his book, 
Rabdologia
. He used a comma in his 
early works and then later changed to using a dot as his decimal marker.
 1616 When Edward Wright translated John Napier's book, '
Descriptio
' from Latin to Engli
sh, he 
also improved on Napier's and Stevin's notations of decimal numbers. It is Wright's decimal 
notation complete with the decimal point '.' that he used in his '
A Description of the 
Admirable Table of Logarithms
' that we all now use.
 1617 Willebrord Sn
ellius, (1580/1626), an astronomer and mathematician from Leiden in the 
Netherlands made the first calculations of the length of the Earth's meridian.
 1619 Henry Lyte published another translation of Simon Stevin's '
Decimal Arithmetic
' into 
English. Lyte a
lso proposed that decimal currency should be linked with decimal weights and 
measures.
 1620 Edmund Gunter (1581/1626) published his '
Canon Triangulorum
' describing several 
measuring instruments that he had invented including what has become known as 'Gunte
r's 
Chain'. Gunter's Chain was based on Simon Stevin's decimal arithmetic in that it had 100 
links to facilitate the use of decimal arithmetic in making relatively complex trigonometric 
calculations. Gunter also developed '
Gunter's scale
' that was a ruler 
with lines to show the 
logarithms of trigonometric functions that proved invaluable to people such as surveyors who 
constantly needed triangulation calculations.
 After 1620, a furlong was defined as ten lengths 
of Gunter's chain and Gunter's chain had 100 
links that were each 7.92 inches long.
 It is interesting that Edmund Gunter's base in London, Gresham College, was the same 
college where John Wilkins worked in the 1660s. Presumably, Gunter was familiar with 
Simon Stevin's work on decimal arithmetic that 
had been translated into English as '
Decimall 
Arthmetike
' in 1608. At Gresham College in the 1660s, John Wilkins would have been 
  Metrication timeline
 40 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 familiar with Gunter's decimal work and the decimal work of Simon Stevin as he formulated 
his ideas for a '
universal measure
' based on decimal numbers.
 Cornelius Drebbel von Alkmaar (1572
-1633) invented a thermometer using alcohol in a glass 
tube. Drebbel was from the Netherlands but he lived much of his life in London. He carried 
out many experiments in optics and heat, and he co
uld demonstrate lightning and rain at 
will. He is regarded as a pioneer in the area of temperature control and measurement 
systems and he invented or developed: improved versions of the telescope, barometers, 
camera obscura, microscopes, an incubator for c
hickens, a solar powered energy system, air 
conditioning, an oven with a smart thermostat.
 1624 Henry Briggs found that NapierÕs logarithms were too difficult to work with in their original 
form so, after he visited Napier in Edinburgh, he soon devised a n
ew form of logarithms, his 
'logs to base 10
', in which to multiply two numbers we simply add their logarithms. In his 
'Arithmetica logarithmica
' he published his extensive hand
-calculations of the logarithms of 
30 000 numbers to 14 decimal places, and thes
e proved to be of enormous value to mariners 
and navigators.
 1627 In the city of Ulm in Germany, Johannes Kepler suggests that an oak tank be made in such a 
way that it could define the measures (capacities) that were valid in that city.
 1630 The invention
 of logarithms by Napier and their development by Briggs quickly led to the 
development of many instruments based on a logarithmic scale. Most notable was the slide 
rule that was widely used for over three hundred years until the invention of the pocket 
calculator at Texas Instruments in 1966.
 1631 Pierre Vernier invented a device to add to a theodolite. He published this in Brussels as 
La construction, l'usage, et les propri”t”s du quadrant nouveau de math”matiques
. His device 
later became widely known as 
the Vernier scale
 and its principle was applied to a wide range 
of measuring instruments
. Vernier's development attached a movable 
ring
 that although 
divided into thirty equal parts was actually thirty
-one half degrees in length and placed so 
that it was a
ligned 
next 
to the initial scale that was also divided into thirty parts but it was 
actually
 thirty
 degrees in length. To measure an angle precisely to the nearest minute 
of arc, 
you simply had to note
 which division line of the Vernier scale coincided wit
h which division 
line of the theodolite.
 This gave a 
precisely 
measured angle in degrees and minutes.
 Pierre Gassendi (1592
-1655) observed the transit of Mercury that had been predicted by 
Johannes Kepler.
 1632 Galileo Galilei published 
Dialogo dei due mas
simi sistemi del Mondi (
Dialogue Concerning 
the Two Chief World Systems
). In this he compared the Sun
-centred and the Earth centred 
ideas of astronomy.
 1634 Richard Witt published '
An Analysis of Stevin's Disme
' (on decimal arithmetic)
.   Metrication timeline
 41 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1636 Marin Mersenne
 (1588
-1648) measured the speed of sound by calculating how long it took 
for an echo to return over a known distance. His speed of sound was within 10
 % of the 
modern value of 343
 meters per second or 1236 kilometres per hour.
 1637 John Wilkins became vica
r of his hometown, Fawsley, but later resigned to become personal 
chaplain to various Lords, Princes, and eventually Charles Louis, nephew of King Charles I 
and afterwards Elector Palatine of the Rhine.
 1638 Publication of John Wilkins' scientific treatise
, The Discovery of a World in the Moone
. in 
which Wilkins describes a trip to the Moon.
 Galileo Galilei published 
Dialogues Concerning Two New Sciences
. 1639 William Gascoigne (1612
-1644) used a micrometer screw gauge to measure the diameter of 
the Sun and
 the planets
 as viewed through a telescope
. 1639 December 4 15:15
 Jeremiah Horrocks observed the transit of Venus across the face of the Sun. His observations 
allowed him to calculate the distance of the Sun from the Earth. His estimate of 96
 million 
kilom
etres was a long way short of the current value of 150
 million kilometres but it was the 
best estimate made up to that time.
 1640 Publication of John Wilkins' 
A Discourse Concerning a New Planet
. This book included a 
reprint of
 his earlier
 book,
 Discovery 
of a World in the Moone
). 1641 John Wilkins published an anonymous book called '
Mercury, or The Secret and Swift 
Messenger
', a small but comprehensive work on secret writing in code that was called 
cryptography.
 A Scottish measurement law
 attempted 
to 
prod
uce
 national Scottish standards to facilitate 
local 
and 
intercity 
trade.
 1642 December 25
 Isaac Newton (1642
-1727) was born at Woolsthorpe. It is said that he was born '
prematurely 
and posthumously
'. 'Prematurely
' because as a baby he was small enough to f
it into a small 
'quart pot' (about a litre) that suggests that his birth mass was a lot less the 2500 grams used 
to define modern babies as premature; his survival was in question for some time.
 'Posthumously
' because his father had died three months befor
e Isaac was born.
 1643 The mercury barometer was invented by an Italian, Evangelista Torricelli (1608/1647). 
Torricelli was a pupil of Galileo Galilei
. Athanasius Kircher (1602
-1680) invented the mercury thermometer.
   Metrication timeline
 42 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1644 Blaise Pascal 
(1623
-1662) 
announced a decimal adding machine for 
the new decimal 
French 
currency that he called a 'Pascaline'. His design was very practical and some examples were 
still in use up to the 1960s after which electronic calculators took their place. The Pascaline 
could 
add up to 10 digit numbers and could 'carry' numbers from one column to the next.
 Marin Mersenne, a French priest, recruited teams of monks to count the swings of a seconds 
pendulum continuously for 24 hours. They found the length of the seconds pendulum w
as 
994 mm (about 36 91/128 old French inches).
 1645 Tito Livio Burattini (1617/1681) published the book, 
Bilancia Sincera
, (The Honest Balance) 
that improved on the hydrostatic balance invented by Galileo. Burattini was born in Italy but 
he spent most of h
is life in Poland where he worked as an architect for the king. He had 
previously travelled to Egypt where he studied the obelisks in Heliopolis and Alexandria.
 1648 Tito Livio Burattini designed a flying machine but he didn't build it.
 John Wilkins publis
hed 
Mathematicall Magick
, the first book on mechanics ever written in 
English. In this book, John Wilkins describes a number of mechanical inventions and devices 
that 
he owned
. There are descriptions of clocks, flying machines, submarines, and perpetual 
motion machines moved by means of magnets. 
Mathematicall Magick
 also includes general 
discussions of mechanics, including 
descriptions of the physical principles that underlie 
the 
use of levers, pulleys, screws, wheels, and wedges.
 1648/1659 John Wilkins was
 appointed Warden of Wadham College, Oxford. Under his 
direction,
 the 
college prospered because even though he was a supporter of Oliver Cromwell, he remained 
in touch with his former friends who were Royalists who placed their sons in his charge at 
Wadham
 College.
 1655 Isaac Newton went to live with an apothecary, Mr Clarke, so he could attend
 the Grammar 
School at Grantham.
 Christiaan Huygens (1629/1695)
 obse
rved the rings of Saturn.
 1656 John Wilkins married Robina Cromwell, Oliver Cromwell's sister.
 Christiaan Huygens
, a Dutch horologist, made the first clock that used a pendulum to 
measure time. Although Huygens lived in the Netherlands he was not isolated from the rest 
of the world scientific community. I quote from Stephen Hawking's book, '
God 
created the 
integers 
Ñ All the rest is the work of Man
': While in Amsterdam, (Ren”) Descartes became friendly with Constantijn Huygens, 
secretary to Frederick Henry, Prince of Orange. Huygens came from a family of 
diplomats and he became an ardent supporte
r of Descartes. However, the Huygens 
family is best known for Constantijn's eldest son Christiaan (1629
-1695) a 
contemporary of Newton who the English philosopher John Locke would describe 
as the 'Huygenius'. Descartes took an active interest in the educat
ion of the young 
Christiaan Huygens and Huygens developed Descartes' theory of vortices.
   Metrication timeline
 43 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1658 September 3
 Oliver Cromwell died and was succeeded as Lord Protector by his son, Richard.
 1659 Shortly before his death, Oliver Cromwell arranged John Wilkins' ap
pointment as Master of 
Trinity College, Cambridge. This appointment that was later confirmed by Oliver Cromwell's 
successor as Lord Protector, his son Richard Cromwell. John Wilkins was Master of Trinity 
College, Cambridge, from 1659 to 1660.
 The Italian m
ath
ematician, Tito Livio Burattini
 built a calculator with 18 disks. Some coupled 
disks used base 12, some used base 20, but there was no capacity to 'carry' numbers from one 
column to the next.
 1660 November 28
 Following a lecture by Sir Christopher Wren,
 the 
Society of London for the Improvement of 
Natural Knowledge
 was founded at Gresham College in London. The Royal Society is now 
regarded as one of the world's oldest learned scientific academies still in existence. As a 
voluntary organisation it serves 
as the academy of sciences for the UK.
 The main proponent in the formation of the Royal Society was John Wilkins as he had strong 
scientific interests. John Wilkins is recognised as the chief founder of the Royal Society 
because he chaired the first meetin
g and then served as its first secretary. For those who are 
not familiar with John Wilkins, here is what Barbara J. Shapiro said about him in the 
introduction to her biography, '
John Wilkins 1614
-1672 An Intellectual Biography
 (University of California Pre
ss 1969)
 For Wilkins had been in turn or in tandem theologian, scientific experimenter, 
Warden of Wadham College, Oxford, science
-fiction writer, linguist, encyclopedist, 
scientific entrepreneur, and administrator, bishop, politician, and preacher. To say 
his fifty
-eight years had been full ones would be to understate the case. It is not the 
fullness of his years, however, but their peculiar richness that makes John Wilkins 
a figure worthy of historical attention. Grant McColley once wrote that 
'When a 
comp
lete biography is prepared, it will be found, I suspect, that John Wilkins was 
the most dynamic force in seventeenth
-century England.
' His choice of words is 
apt. Not the greatest mind or the most influential scholar of the century, rarely a 
central figure
 in the political area, Wilkins nevertheless seems to have played a key 
role in each of the movements to reform and liberalize English intellectual life: 
first, the change from an authoritarian, dogmatic religious outlook to the more 
liberal, rationalistic
 credo of Restoration and eighteenth
-century England; second, 
the scientific revolution that during the course of the century replaced the average 
man's traditional concept of the cosmos with that of Copernicus and to a more 
mechanistic concept of nature b
ased on the findings of natural science; and third, 
though less important, the adaptation of simpler modes of intellectual 
communication.
 Although not himself a major scientific innovator, Wilkins's popularizations of 
science were among the most widely rea
d scientific works of the day in England. 
He was the nucleus of the group that for some years made Oxford the scientific 
center of the nation. And he was one of the principal founders and supporters of 
Oxford's successor as the national center of scientifi
c learning, the Royal Society. 
In short, during and after the Civil War, Wilkins was England's single most 
influential and effective organizer and purveyor of the scientific culture.
 This society founded by John Wilkins and his associates was first known a
s the '
Society of 
London for the Improvement of Natural Knowledge
'; it became the '
Royal Society of 
  Metrication timeline
 44 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 London for the Improvement of Natural Knowledge
' when King Charles II becomes its 
patron; and later it was simply called the '
Royal Society
' as it still is 
today. John Wilkins 
chaired the first meeting of the Royal Society and became its first secretary. See: 
http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~rja14/wilkins/wilkins.html
  One of the first actions of the 
Royal Society
 was to suggest that a universal measuring system 
should be based on the length of a pendulum that swung uniformly back and forth in one 
second. 
Christopher Wren (1632
Ð1723)
 probably proposed this based on earlier suggestions 
by Huygens and Ole
 R¿mer (who in turn had based 
their ideas
 on 
the
 study of 
pendulums 
swinging by 
Marin Mersenne 
that was published
 in 1644
. From this simple idea, 
it was Wilkins' drive toward '
simpler modes of intellectual 
communication
' that led him to develop his '
universal measure
' that we now know as the 
International System of Units (SI) or simply as the '
metric system
' (See 1668 below).
 This 
idea for a 
seconds pendulum
 was 
again
 taken up, in the 1780s, by Thomas Jefferson (1743
Ð1826), later 
the third 
president o
f the USA.
 The idea of a unit of length based on nature had been advocated for some time before 
Christopher Wren formally proposed it. M
any scientists regarded the length of a pendulum 
oscillating with a given, well defined period as the natural choice for
 a unit of length based on 
nature. Leonardo da Vinci had reported his original obser
vations of the pendulum in 1452;
 Galileo Galilei discovered that the length of the string on a pendulum was most important to 
the time of the swing
 in 1602;
 Christian Huyge
ns built the first practical pendulum clock 
in 
1657; and m
any other experimental and theoretical scientists had also systematically studied 
the properties of the pendulum, so by 1660 it was considered that the pendulumÕs properties 
were well known.
 1661 Marcello Malpighi reported his observations of the capillary action in frogÕs lungs to the 
Royal Society. These observations were immediately recognised as the missing link in 
William HarveyÕs theory of blood circulation.
 1661 June 5
 Isaac Newton began his s
tudies at Trinity College, Cambridge.
 1662 John Wilkins became Vicar of St Lawrence Je
wry in the heart of London. He was buried in 
this
 church.
 Christopher Merrett wrote to the Royal Society about a technique he devised for double 
fermentation to produce s
parkling wine. Later this became known as the '
m”thode 
Champenoise
' or the '
champagne method
' when it was used to found a regional industry in 
France.
 1663 Modern archaeology began when Charles II, with his physician Walter Charleton and John 
Aubrey studie
d the Neolithic stone circle at Avebury in Wiltshire. They submitted drawings 
from their studies to the Royal Society. 
 1664 Sir Samuel 
Morland 
(1625/1695) 
constructed a decimal calculator in England that was 
an 
improvement of Pascal's adding machine
. It 
used a stylus to input numbers and could 'carry' 
numbers from column to column.
   Metrication timeline
 45 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Robert Boyle (1627
-1691) published his book of 
Experiments and Considerations Touching 
Colours.
 1665 Gabriel Mouton, a country vicar and choirmaster, repeatedly counted and rec
orded the 
swings of a pendulum to establish the 
relationship between the length and the time for each 
swing. Later, th
is kind of device 
was made so that by choosing the right length the pendulum 
would beat a second of time. This then became known as 
a '
second's pendulum
'. The Royal Society published, '
Micrographia
' by Robert Hooke (1635
-1703)
. This book 
contained many drawings made using a microscope and they included Hooke's famous 
drawing of a flea. Hooke's book was the first to use the word '
cell
' as 
a biological term.
 Christia
an Huygens suggested using the freezing and boiling points of water as standards for 
a thermometer temperature scale.
 Isaac Newton differentiated between spherical aberration and chromatic aberration in a glass 
lens. He then poin
ted out that it was impossible to eliminate or suppress chromatic 
aberration in any optical system consisting of lenses. It was only much later that achromatic 
lenses were invented
 (by 
John Dollond  (1706
-1761), an English optician and inventor 
in 
1758)
 to
 overcome this problem.
 Plague appeared in London. Because it was detected by the color of the lumps that appeared 
on its victims, people called it the Black Death. We now know that the plague germs were 
carried by fleas that lived as parasites on rats.
 1665 - January
 Isaac Newton finished his Bachelor's Degree at Trinity College, Cambridge.
 1665 - August
 Isaac Newton moves back to Woolsthorpe from Cambridge due to the Plague. He continues 
his mathematical and scientific work at his mother's home.
 1666 The 
Great Fire of London burnt down extensive portions of the central parts of the city.
 The French join the Dutch in the war against the English.
 Samuel 
Morland showed a new calculator for English currency that was similar to the 
Burattini calculator of 1659.
 Morland's calculator could add pennies and shillings and pounds 
separately but because it was not working with a decimal currency, it could not 'carry' from 
one unit to the next.
 John Wilkins became vicar of Polebrook in Northamptonshire, the same year th
at the church 
where he would be buried, the Church of St Lawrence Jewry in London, was badly burned in 
the great fire of London. Later, between 1670 and 1687, Christopher Wren rebuilt this 
church. 
Christopher Wren's associate on rebuilding London after the
 great fire of London was 
Robert Hooke. 
This was also the time that John Wilkins learned of the modern concept of 
having a back
-up copy; all but one of his draft copies of '
An Essay Towards a Real 
Character and a Philosophical Language
' (see 1668 below) we
re lost in the great
 fire 
of London. Without Wilkin
s' Essay we may never have developed a decimal metric system.
 Jean-Baptiste Colbert founded the French Acad”mie des Sciences (French Academy of 
Sciences). This society had the task of encouraging and prote
cting the spirit of French 
scientific research. As one of its members was King Louis XIV, its first meeting were held in 
the King's library. Unlike the Royal Society in England, the French Academy of Science was 
founded to be an important part of the Frenc
h government. In this sense it was not an 
  Metrication timeline
 46 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 independent organisation and it was to be apolitical, and not to discuss religious and social 
issues. As one of the earliest academies of sciences, it led many of the scientific developments 
in Europe in the 1600s 
and 1700s.
 1667 King Louis XIV founded the first national institution for measurement 
Ñ the Paris 
observatory. Its activities focused on issues related to astronomy, navigation, and surveying.
 John Milton published 
Paradise Lost
. 1667 John Wilkins became 
bishop of Chester, a post he kept until his death in 1672.
 1667 - October 2
 After Isaac Newton returns to Cambridge he is elected as a minor Fellow of Trinity College. 
He writes 
Enumeratio curvarum
. 1668 The Royal Society published '
An Essay Towards a Real
 Character and a 
Philosophical Language
' by John Wilkins, where he attempted to create a universal, 
completely unambiguous, language so that scholars and philosophers could communicate 
easily and clearly. Wilkins' 638 page essay included a four and a half 
page description of a 
measurement system that included his ideas for a '
universal measure
' that could be used for 
length, 'weight', capacity, and money.
 Wilkins short proposal for a '
universal measure
' contained almost all of the elements of the 
Internatio
nal System of Units (SI), the modern metric system. Wilkins suggested
: " a universal standard of length,
 " a 'universal 
measure' based on a measurement of the Earth or on the length of a 
pendulum beating in one second,
 " the
 'universal 
measure' of 
standard lengt
h to be used to define area, volume, and 
'we
ight' using distilled rainwater, and
 " a decimal system to divide large units or to multiply small units.
 Wilkins' 
Essay
 is the first description of a complete system of measurement intended to be 
used by the whole
 world. 
As well as devising the outline for a system of 
'universal 
measure', 
he also seems to understand the need for standards for units of measurement that are agreed 
internationally.
 Clearly, the metric system and the International System of Units (SI) 
had their origins in 
England. Although Wilkins' plan was not acted on, in retrospect it is easy to see it as the first 
statement of an international system of measurement that led in time to the decimal metric 
system that was legalised in France in the 179
0s.
 Following John Wilkins' first description of an international system of measurement the 
progress of the metric system has proved to be inevitable even though Wilkins himself was 
not confident of its success. Wilkins wrote about his plans for a 
universa
l measure
: I mention these particulars, not out of any hope or expectation that the World will 
ever make use of them, but only to show the possibility of reducing all Measures to 
one determined certainty.
 Later, the development of Wilkins' ideas into what 
became the metric system in France in the 
1790s was heavily influenced by thinkers in the USA especially the decimal ideas promoted 
by Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and George Washington.
   Metrication timeline
 47 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Following the publication of John Wilkins' essay many other p
eople in several countries 
seemed to take up and promote themes that appeared in John Wilkins' '
An Essay Towards a 
Real Character and a Philosophical Language
'. Here is an extract from '
John Wilkins 1614
-1672 An Intellectual Biography
 by Barbara J. Shapiro (University of California Press 1969)
: Some of the greatest minds of the century received Wilkins's efforts warmly. 
Newton, who at one time had attempted a similar scheme, mentioned Wilkins's 
work in his correspondence. John Locke, t
oo, was interested in Wilkins's work, and 
recommended his book on the subject in preference to Dalgarno's. Contemporaries 
such as Sir William Wotton even saw a connection between the work of Wilkins 
and that of Locke, and suggested that any one wishing to 
pursue the subject of a 
universal character beyond Wilkins should consult Locke's An Essay Concerning 
Human Understanding. Leibnitz was very interested in a universal character, and 
was familiar with the work of both Wilkins and Dalgarno. One recent writer
 has 
suggested that they, rather than Leibnitz, should be credited with the important 
developments in symbolic logic that resulted from the search for a philosophic 
language. Wilkins's Essay, although written in English, quickly found its way 
abroad. Comen
ius was sent a copy by Oldenburg. Wallis sent one to the Italian 
physicist Giovanni Borelli. Huygens and Leibnitz obtained copies. The Elector 
Palatine, Wilkins's former patron, tried to obtain a copy, and Thomas Pigot, one of 
the Aubrey circle, was hopefu
l that the Elector would 
'be very instrumental
' in 
promoting Wilkin's design in his domains. A Latin edition was prepared to make 
the work more widely available, but it was never printed. E
fforts were undertaken 
to trans
late the Essay into French as well.
 As concrete examples of the spread of Wilkins' ideas, they were repeated by Gabriel Mouton 
in 1670, Jean Picard in 1671, and Gottfried Leibniz 
(1646
-1716) 
in 1673 (see below) and the 
word, metre probably derived from a translation of Wilkins words, '
univer
sal measure
', into 
the Italian words, '
metro cattolico
', seven years later by Tito Livio Burattini in 1675 (see 
below).
 More information about the life of John Wilkins can be found 
from Aubrey's Brief Lives via 
http://www
-history.mcs.st
-andrews.ac.uk/history/Societies/Aubrey.html
 where they write:
 He was no greatly read man; but one of much and deep thinking, and of a working 
head; and a prudent man as well as ingenious. He 
was one of Seth, Lord Bishop of 
Salisbury's most intimate friends. He was a lusty, strong grown, well set, broad 
shouldered person, cheerful, and hospitable.
 He was the principal reviver of experimental philosophy (in the spirit of Lord 
Bacon) at Oxford, w
here he had weekly an experimental philosophical [scientific] 
club, which began 1649, and was the cradle of the Royal Society. When he came to 
London, they met at the Bull
-head tavern in Cheapside (e.g. 1658, 1659, and after), 
till it grew too big for a cl
ub, and so they came to Gresham College parlour.
 From John Aubrey's Brief Lives. (Edited by R Barber, Boydell Press, 1982)
 Other good reference
s about the life and times of Bishop John Wilkins can be found at
: http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~rja14/wilkins/wilkins.html
 and 
http://www
-history.mcs.st
-andrews.ac.uk/history/Biographies/Wilkins.html
  The 
modern English 
translation from 17th century English of the 
pages 
relevant 
to measures 
from 
WilkinsÕ 
'An Essay Towards a Real Character and a Philosophical Language
' can be 
found
 at: 
http://www.metricationmatters.com/docs/Wilkins_translation_2007
-07-14.pdf
  The French King Philip I (1668/1671) redefined the French 
toise de Charlemagne
. This toise 
had been a length standard in France since the time of Charlemagne (742/814). The toise wa
s situated on the outside of one of the pillars of the old Ch›telet building. This old standard 
(”talon
) was still on that pillar in 1714. Like many of the other toises 
of length 
in France the 
toise de Charlemagne
 was about 1.95
 metres long.
   Metrication timeline
 48 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Isaac Newton d
evised successful methods for casting and polishing mirrors of the best shape 
to use in a reflecting telescope. His first reflector telescope was 160
 millimetres long with a 
mirror 31 millimetres across.
 1668 - March 16
 Isaac Newton is elected as a major F
ellow of Trinity College
, Cambridge
. 1668 - July 7
 Isaac Newton is granted a Master's Degree at Cambridge.
 1668 - August 5
 Isaac Newton makes his first visit to London.
 1669 Gian Domenico Cassini (1625
-1712), an Italian astronomer and mathematician, 
travelled to 
France to work with Christiaan Huygens (1629
-1695), who invented the pendulum clock, and 
to help develop better scientific instruments with Adrian Azout. Their observations and 
better instruments made it possible to measure the movements of th
e moons of Jupiter and 
to see the rings of Saturn. The rings of Jupiter became important later to measure time 
accurately to determine the lines of longitude on the Earth's surface.
 Jean Picard corrected the size of the world after copies of scrolls from E
ratosthenes were 
rediscovered in Constantinople by Polish researchers. 
Picard used trigonometrical methods 
to establish an accurate distance from Malvoisine to Sourdon, a distance of about 
200
 kilometres. From this distance he then calculated the size of t
he Earth as 
12 744
 kilometres, which is very close to the modern value. 
Prior to thi
s, the wrong size for 
the Earth (devised by Ptolemy)
 had been about 30
 000 km instead of 40
 000 kilometres
. The French mathematician Gilles Personne de Roberval invented 
the weighing balance that 
bears his name. The Roberval balance was an improvement on earlier balances as it 
prevented the pans or platforms from tilting as they moved up and down making sure that 
the position of weights on the pans has no effect on the way
 it balanced.
 1669 - February 23
 Isaac Newton describes his reflecting telescope in a letter to Henry Oldenburg, first Secretary 
of the Royal Society.
 1669 - October 29
 Isaac Newton is elected Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at Trinity College Cambridge.
 1670 Jean Picard (1620
-1682) completed a measurement of an arc of a meridian of the Earth to 
determine the distance of a degree of arc on the Earth's surface. He measured the distance 
from Sourdon, North of Paris, to Malvoisine, South of Paris, a distance
 of about 200 
kilometres. Picard
 was accurate to within about 3
 metres (or o.015
 %). As Picard worked, he 
worried that he could lose his standard measuring rod (called a toise in French) so he devised 
the idea of comparing his standard toise with the lengt
h of a simple pendulum beating in 
seconds. He reasoned that he could then make it possible to reproduce a standard toise if he 
ever needed a new one. This eventually led to the idea of a standard unit of length based on a 
seconds pendulum
 beating one secon
d at sea level, 
at a latitude of 45¡
. Also in France, Gabriel Mouton (1618
Ð1694), Vicar of St. Paul's Church in Lyons and an 
astronomer, promoted a decimal measurement system that 
had many similarities 
to the 
  Metrication timeline
 49 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 system 
proposed two years earlier
, (see
 1668
), by John Wilkins.
 Mouto
n publis
hed his ideas 
in a book called,
 Observationes diametrorum solis et lunae apparentium
. Gabriel Mouton 
was a French church abbot and scientist. He held a doctorate of theology from Lyon 
University, but he was also interested in 
mathematics and astronomy.
 In his book, Mouton 
carefully explained the advantages of a system based on nature rather than the length of a 
king's foot.
 Mouton proposed a linear scale based on a geodetic minute that was to be divided 
decimally.
 Mouton wanted
 to base a '
universal measure'
 on the circumference of the Earth. Picard's 
estimates of the earthÕs circumference had recently become available, so Mouton 
also 
worked 
out the size that he would need to make a pendulum so that the size of the Earth could be
 referred to by using 
a pendulum as a 
convenient and easy everyday standard. 
Mouton did not 
use Picard's estimate of the Earth's circumference. He based his calculations in his book on 
the measurements of the size of the Earth conducted by Giovanni 
Battista Riccioli of Bologna 
(1598/1671) an Italian astronomer.
 We now know that Riccioli's 
figures were mistaken 
because his
 methods have since proved to be
 faulty.
 Mouton proposed a standard length based on a 1/10
 000 of a minute of arc. As Mouton's 
pend
ulum was located in Lyon, and oscillated 3959.2 times in an hour 
Ñ it was not a seconds 
pendulum
. Using back c
alculation
, Mouton's pendulum
 would have been close to 20
5 mm long
. (Actually, There are two possible seconds pendulums depending on whether you 
measure
 the period 
Ð forward and backward movement
 gives a pendulum about 249
 mm long
 Ð or only half the period 
Ð only forward or only backward
 that gives a pendulum about 
994 mm long
. Eventually, there was agreement in naming the longer seconds pendulum as
 the one that gave a second in a single swing of the pendulum, that is the 994
 mm pendulum. 
 Mouton suggested that 
the
 minute of arc along a meridian be measured and defined as a unit 
called a 'milliare'. 
By todayÕs measures, Mouton's milliare corresponds 
to a nautical mile of 
exactly 1852 metres, and his virga would, by his 
definition, have been exactly 
1852
 milli
metres.
 Mouton 
then
 suggested 
a decimal system of measurement 
dividing the milliare into centuria, 
decuria, virga, virgula, decima, centesima, an
d millesima by successively dividing by factors 
of ten. 
In short, Mouton suggested that 
using decimal divisions we could use Simon Stevin's 
1585 decimal system of tenths to divide an Earth based unit into smaller parts
.  Mouton's ideas attracted interest 
at the time, and were supported by Jean Picard as well as 
Huygens in 1673, and also studied at Royal Society in London
, who had commissioned the 
original work by John Wilkins in 1668
. In 1673, 
In Germany, Gottfried 
Leibniz independently 
made similar measur
ement p
roposals to those of 
Wilkins
. It would be over a century later, however, that the French Academy of Sciences weights and 
measures committee suggested the decimal metric system that 
initially defined the meter as
 a 
decimal 
division of 
a quadrant
 of t
he Earth.
 1671 For over a century, the length of a seconds pendulum had, from time to time, been proposed 
as a way of establishing a standard length. In 1671, Jean Picard (1620
-1682), 
in his book, 
Mesure de la terre
 (Measure of the earth), 
proposed definin
g the French foot, 
pied
 or 
'universal foot
', as a third, and the toise as twice, the 
length of the seconds pendulum.
 At this time
, it was the seconds pendulum that had most consensus between scientists. 
Jean 
Picard, Olaus R¿mer, and other astronomers 
promoted the idea that the length of a 
pendulum beating in seconds should be used as a standard unit of length
 for all nations
. They 
suggested that a pendulum of specified time period could be used as a convenient sub
-multiple for people to use routinely a
s a
n everyday
 standard for length.
    Metrication timeline
 50 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Picard specifically suggested a 
universal foot
, to be represented by one
-third of the length of 
a pendulum beating exactly in seconds. 
However, it was already known that identical 
pendulums set up in different places had
 different perio
ds of oscillation, so any such
 definition would 
also 
have to have a specific location for the standard pendulum.
 A major 
problem for the 
seconds pendulum method for setting a 
universal measure
 was the issue of a 
specific location
 as this was fraught with political problems 
Ð everyone, France, UK, and USA 
Ð wanted the 
specific location
 to relate specifically to their own their country.
 1671 December
 Isaac Newton sent
 his reflecting telescope to Royal Society. Since then reflecting 
telescopes 
have 
often 
been called 
Newtonian
 telescopes.
 1671 - December 21
 Isaac Newton is proposed for election to the Royal Society in London.
 1672 Isaac Newton reported new ideas on the nature of light and color. He had noticed that when 
two flat pieces
 of glass were pressed together, he could see circular bands of rainbow
-like 
colors. These came to be called 
Newton's Rings
. Although Newton did not recognize it immediately, he 
had discovered a very precise method 
for making accurate measurements
. Later, 
other scientists were to 
use 
Newton's Rings
 to 
develop 
and establish a new branch of science called interferometry. 
Now
, interferometry is 
routinely used 
to measure distances 
down to a within nanometres
. Thomas Gobert built the Pavillon de Breteuil for Kin
g Louis
 XIV's brother, and the king 
inaugurated the building
. Jean Richer (1630
-1696) discovered that the force of gravity was not uniform around the 
world. He made this discovery by comparing the swing of a pendulum at the Observatory in 
Paris (45
 ¡N) and
 comparing with the same pendulum in Cayenne, which is quite close to the 
equator.
 1672 - January 11
 Newton is elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society of London.
 1672 - February 6
 Isaac Newton's first letter on 
Light and Colors
 is read to the Royal Societ
y where Robert 
Hooke, a respected senior scientist and Curator of Experiments for the Royal Society, 
criticizes it harshly.
 1672 - February 8
 Isaac Newton publishes his first scientific article, a letter on 
Light & Colors,
 in the 
Philosophical Transactions
 of the Royal Society.
 1672 - March 25
 Account of Isaac Newton's new reflecting telescope published in the Philosophical 
Transactions of the Royal Society. Seven additional optical papers by Isaac Newton also 
appeared in the Philosophical Transactions 
throughout this year.
 1672 November 19
 John Wilkins died in London and he was buried in the church of St Lawrence Jewry.
   Metrication timeline
 51 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1673 The Dutch mathematician, astronomer and physicist, Christiaan Huygens, and the French 
astronomer Jean Picard (1620/1682) published
 support for Gabriel Mouton's measuring 
ideas. These ideas were also reported to the Royal Society in London.
 The German mathematician
, Gottfried Leibniz (1646/1716)
, published measurement 
proposals similar to those of John Wilkins and Gabriel Mouton.
 1675 Tito Livio Burattini 
(1617/1681) 
published 
Misura Universale
 (Universal measure) in which 
he proposed that a pendulum with a period of a second be used as the 
universal measure
 of 
length. 
In his book, Burattini first used the expression 
'metro cattolico
' to describe the length 
of this pendulum. This looks like a direct translation of Wilkins' '
universal measure
' into 
Italian. 
The Italian word '
metro
' derives from '
metron
', a Greek word for measure, and it is 
probable that the French word, '
m‘tre
' is also f
rom these sources. Burattini's suggestion led 
to the name, 
m‘tre
, being used as the base unit of length in France and this subsequently 
became 
metre
 in England.
 Tito Livio Burattini w
rote that the
 same word for the 
universal measure
 should be used
: É by all civilized people on earth despite diff
erences in languages and custom
. The word, 
metre
, now serves 
Burattini's 
purpose, albeit with slightly different spellings in 
various languages.
 King Charles II established the Royal Greenwich Observatory to 
determine longitude at sea 
by '
the astronomical method
'. Like the Paris Observatory (1667) its activities were limited to 
astronomy, navigation, and surveying.
 Cassini published a short paper where he states for the first time that light has a definite 
spe
ed. He wrote:
 This second inequality appears to be due to light taking some time to reach us from 
the satellite; light seems to take about ten to eleven minutes to cross a distance 
equal to the half
-diameter of the terrestrial orbit.
 1675 - February 18
 Isa
ac Newton attends his first meeting of Royal Society in London.
 1675 August 10
 King Charles II established Greenwich observatory and appointed John Flamsteed as 
Astronomer Royal. His task was to:
 É apply himself with the most exact care and diligence to th
e rectifying of the 
tables of the motions of the heavens, and the places of the fixed stars, so as to find 
out the so much desired longitude of places for the perfecting of the art of 
navigation.
 1676 A Danish astronomer, Ole Christensen Roemer (1644/1710)
, demonstrated that light has a 
finite speed and he made the first reasonable estimate of the speed of light. Roemer based his 
estimate on the observations made by Giovanni Domenico Cassini (1625/1712) on the 
movement of JupiterÕs moons.
   Metrication timeline
 52 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Roemer's value for
 the speed of light was 220
 000 000 metres per second; this is about 25
 % less than the actual sp
eed of light, that we now know a
s exactly 299
 792
 458 metres per 
second.
 Ole Roemer, was also a pioneer of the metric system in that he began to evaluate earth
 distances by comparing them to the circumference of the whole Earth. When Ole Roemer 
visited England in 1679 to examine a pendulum being made at the Royal Academy, he 
had 
meetings
 with Isaac Newton and Edmund Halley.
 1677 Antoni van Leeuwenhoek 
(1632
-1723
) sees 'animalcules' (little animals) using his 
microscope. This was the first view of microorganisms and his observations began the science 
of microbiology and the need for measurements on an extremely small scale.
 1679 John Locke (1632
-1704) suggested th
e word, gry, as a unit for length in a decimal measuring 
system based on the length of a foot. The gry was to be equal to 0.001 foot and 0.01 inch in a 
decimalised method for measuring lengths.
 Thomas Jefferson, who was very familiar with Locke's writings,
 proposed a similar system for 
the USA in 1790 but he changed the name of 0.001 foot to a 'point' rather than a 'gry'. The 
word 'gry is derived from an ancient Greek word that meant a small amount. More details of 
the word gry can be found at: 
http://www.onlineunitconversion.com/gry_to_shackle.html
 1681 Ole Christensen R¿mer (1644/1710) become a professor of astronomy in Denmark.
 One of 
his firs
t assignments was to
 reform the 
Danish weigh
ts and measures. He did this by basing
 all 
Danish measures on
 the Rhineland foot.
 1682 Sir William Petty, in England, put forward a suggestion that there should be five farthings to 
a penny instead of four so that we could:
 'keep all accompts in a way of 
Decimal Arithmetic, which hath been long desired 
for the ease and convenience of Accompting'.
 1682 - December
 Isaac Newton made detailed observations of Halley's comet.
 1684 - December 10
 Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz (1646/1716) published his first public
ation on calculus, 
Novus 
methodus
. Although he had developed the calculus from his own entirely independent 
efforts, it resulted in a bitter priority dispute with Isaac Newton who had arrived at similar 
results earlier, but he had not published them.
 1687 - July 5
 The Royal Society published one of the most influential books of all time, Sir Isaac Newton's 
'Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica
', that is usually shortened to  
'Principia 
Mathematica
'. Among many other things Newton's book described th
e action of gravity on 
both a human and on an astronomical scale. Newton was aware that a second's pendulum 
would have to be shorter near the equator than at the North or South Pole because the force 
of gravity is greater near the poles and centrifugal for
ces are greater near the equator. Isaac 
  Metrication timeline
 53 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Newton's book was published with help from the astronomer, Edmond Halley. '
Principia 
Mathematica
' remains one of the most influential books of all time.
 One odd aspect of Isaac Newton's 
Principia Mathematica
 was due 
to the fact that Newton 
felt he could not rely of English measures for accuracy. Throughout his book he used Parisian 
feet for all of his measurements.
 1689 Charles
-Louis de Secondat, baron de La Br‘de et de Montesquieu (1689/1755), was born in 
Bordeaux. H
e was a French social commentator and political thinker who trained as a lawyer 
and then travelled widely studying political organisations and methods.
 Montesquieu was 
highly regarded in the British colonies in America as a champion of liberty. Montesquieu
's 
philosophy was that:
 Government should be set up so that no man need be afraid of another.
 Montesquieu was the most frequently quoted authority on government and politics in 
colonial pre
-revolutionary America. Following the Declaration of Independence, 
Montesquieu's work had a powerful influence on many of the American Founders, especially 
on Thomas Jefferson, the '
writer of the Declaration of Independence
' and on 
James 
Madison
, the '
Father of the Constitution
'. Montesquieu's main work, De l'Esprit des L
ois (The Spirit of the Laws) was published in 1748 
and it quickly rose to a position of enormous influence. This book became influential as the 
French Constitution and the Constitution of the USA were 
being drafted and 
written.
 John Locke (1632/1704) publi
shed, 
A Letter Concerning Toleration,
 and, 
Two Treatises of 
Government
. Locke,
 an English philosopher
, was very influential to the theory of social 
contract and to the theory of how governments should operate. His ideas had enormous 
influence on the develo
pments of political philosophy. His writings influenced Diderot, 
Montesquieu, Voltaire and Rousseau a
nd Thomas Jefferson.
 The writings of Rousseau, Locke and Montesquieu all contained ideas that were later used by 
Thomas Jefferson and the French National A
ssembly to compose two documents that have 
had a major effect on the whole world: the 
American Declaration of Independence
 and the 
French Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen
. Both of these documents provided for standards for weights and measures 
and for laws and 
procedures to provide honest measurements for all citizens.
 1695 In the lead up to the '
Great Recoinage of 1696/7
' many voices were heard in support of 
decimal currency for the UK. For example, an anonymous broadsheet, '
A letter from Londo
n to a Friend in Westminster, proposing some Particulars relating in the Coyn
' suggested that 
a '
William Royal
' should form the tenth part of a pound, a '
Ropee
' should form the 
hundredth part, and a farthing should be the thousandth part of a pound.
 1696 - April 20
 Newton departs Cambridge for London to become Warden of the British Mint.
 1699 - February 21
 Newton is elected Foreign Associate of the Acad”mie des sciences (Paris).
 1699 - November 30
 Newton is elected to the Council of the Royal Society.
   Metrication timeline
 54 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1701 Ole Christensen R¿mer
 made the first practical thermometer. His thermometer used red 
wine as the temperature indicator. R¿mer's temperature scale began at 0 for the temperature 
of a salt and ice mixture (the coldest thing he could find) and went to 60 for 
the boiling point 
of water. On the R¿mer scale 
the freezing point of water was 7
$
 and human temperature 
was 22
$
. 1700 - February 3
 Newton is appointed Master of the Mint.
 1701 - November 26
 Isaac Newton is elected to Parliament as a Senator from Cambridge.
 1703 - November 30
 Isaac Newton is elected as President of Royal Society.
 1704 In an English Dictionary of Arts and Sciences called 
Lexicon Technicum
, the terms separating 
point and separatrix are used to describe the decimal marker used to separate the w
hole 
number part from the decimal number part.
 Isaac Newton published the first edition of his book on light and color called, 
Opticks
. 1705 April 16
 Queen Anne knights Sir Isaac Newton in Cambridge.
 1706 The English gallon was standardised as 231 cubic in
ches (3
 785
 mL).
 Benjamin Franklin (1706/1790) was born in Boston.
 1707 The Treaty of Union between England and Scotland extends the weights and measures of 
England to Scotland. Since then, England and Scotland have had the same standards for 
weights and m
easures.
 Sir Isaac Newton publishes 
Arithmetica universalis
, 'The Universal Arithmetic
' in which he 
describes decimal methods of calculation.
 1713 Jacques Cassini (1677
-1756), the son Gian Domenico Cassini, measured the arc of the 
meridian from Dunquerque 
to Perpignan. He also observed that all domestic measures in 
France could usefully be referred to a unit based on a 
seconds pendulum
, and even all 
European measures, since the length of a 
seconds pendulum
 is about 
the same length 
throughout the c
ontinent 
of Europe.
 Sir Isaac Newton published
 the 
second edition of 
his 
Principia
 Mathematica
.   Metrication timeline
 55 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1714 The Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society reported on the first account of 
inoculation against disease in England. This started the fight against smallpox
 that ended 
with the global eradication of smallpox by 1979.
 1717 Benjamin Franklin invented a pair of swim fins for his hands so that he could swim faster.
 1718 Benjamin Franklin was apprenticed to his brother James who was a printer.
 1720 Sir Isaac Newton's 
Universal Arithmetic
 was published in an English language edition. There 
is a copy of this in Thomas Jefferson's Library that is now housed at the Library of Congress 
in Washington. Jefferson had written a short eulogy to Isaac Newton in
side the front cover.
 Jacques Cassini (1677/1756) proposed the adoption of a geodetic foot representing (1/6000) 
terrestrial minute of arc.
 1724 Benjamin Franklin travels to London in order to buy printing equipment. Letters of credit for 
him never arrived
 so Franklin was stranded in London where he continued to work as a 
printer's apprentice. While Franklin was in England he swam from Chelsea to Embankment 
along the Thames River
; apparently he
 entertain
ed thousands of 
onlookers
 by regularly 
changing his sw
imming stroke styles
. Gabriel Fahrenheit (1686
Ð1736) proposed a temperature scale based on 
what he considered 
to be 
two stable values: the temperature of a mixture of ice water, and ammonium chloride at 
the low end and the temperature in his wife's armpit 
at the 
high
 end. By a process of 
continual halving and quartering he arranged for there to be 32 degrees from the low 
temperature to the freezing pint of water and 64 degrees between the freezing point of water 
and the temperature of his wife's armpit.
 And
ers Celsius (1701/1744) used better 
stable 
values
 and decimalised the temperature scale in 1742 (see below).
 1726 - March 31
 Sir Isaac Newton published the third edition of Principia.
 1727 Although Benjamin Franklin lived and worked in London as an itinera
nt printer's apprentice, 
he was still able to meet Sir Hans Sloane, a noted collector of curiosities, who became 
President of the Royal Society in 1727. Sloane took over the presidency from Sir Isaac 
Newton. On Sloane's death in 1754, his extensive collect
ions, including much Royal Society
-related material, become the core of the British Museum.
 Benjamin Franklin returned to Pennsylvania where he developed a talent for printing 
currency. One employer is quoted as saying he could find, '
no one to cut 
currency like 
Franklin
'. Franklin helped establish the 'Junto', a society of young men who met for '
self
-improvement, study, mutual aid, and conviviality
'. 1727 - March 20
 Isaac Newton died and he was buried at Westminster Abbey in London.
   Metrication timeline
 56 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1729 Benjamin Fr
anklin wrote a pamphlet entitled '
The Nature and Necessity of a Paper 
Currency
'. 1731 Benjamin Franklin drew up the articles of association for '
The Library Company
', the first 
lending library in America.
 1733 Jacques Cassini (1677/1756) made measurements 
of the Earth based on terrestrial minutes of 
arc. Together with his son, C”sar
-Fran“ois Cassini, they surveyed a portion of the arc of 
meridian from Dunkerque in France to Barcelona in Spain.
 1735 Charles
-Marie de 
La Condamine
 (1701
-1774)
, and his party
 me
asured a geodetic arc of 
meridian in Peru where they also made equatorial measurements such as the length of an 
equatorial pendulum.
 From these measurements they devised a standard length of a toise 
(about 1.95 metres) that became known as the 
Toise of Per
u. Their
 work helped to form the 
basis for the determination of the length of the metre. 
La Condamine 
also proposed 
international cooperation and a pendulum regulated at the equator, as determined by himself 
and '
the hands of nature
' as the universal stand
ard for length
. 1736 Pierre Louis Moreau de Maupertuis (1698/1759) completed a geographical survey in 
Lapland. This, together with the
 Cassinis' measurements and th
e measurements of Charles
-Marie de la Condamine in Ecuador and 
Peru, refined the value of th
e earthÕs circumference 
and radius and established definitively that the shape of the earth is oblate, which means that 
it's a sort of flattened sphere.
 Modern measurements show that the diameter of the earth at 
the equator is 12
 756 kilometres and that th
e diameter through the North and South Poles is 
12 715 kilometres. The Earth is 41 kilometres wider than it is tall. Technically the shape of the 
Earth is called an ellipsoid or a geoid.
 The Copley Medal was established from an endowment of £100 received f
rom the estate of 
Sir Godfrey Copley. It is Britain's oldest scientific honour and a forerunner of the Nobel Prize.
 Benjamin Franklin printed the currency for New Jersey.
 1737 Pierre Simon Fournier (1712/1768) began to use the point as a typographical unit
 for 
measuring printerÕs type. FournierÕs published his printing ideas in his book Manuel 
Typographique. As Fournier lived and worked in France his point size was defined as 1/72 of 
the French Royal Inch of about 27.1 mm (1 Fournier point ~ 376 
%
m). Later 
definitions used 
inches with different lengths; English typesetters used the English inch of about 25.4 mm but 
kept the 1/72 fraction thus giving English typesetters a point with a different, smaller, size. 
The English point is defined as about 0.013 888 8
88 É inches (~ 353 
%m). Later Nelson C. 
Hawks (1841/1929) of California redefined the printerÕs point as 0.138 exactly or 351 
%
m (see 
1868 below).
 Benjamin Franklin was appointed Postmaster for Philadelphia in 1737. Later, Benjamin 
Franklin owned a copy of
 Pierre Simon FournierÕs book 
Manuel Typographique
, which he 
probably
 purchased directly from Fournier when Franklin was in France as a diplomat 
between 1776 and 1785.
   Metrication timeline
 57 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1740 Nicolas Louis de Lacaille (1713/ 1762) and Jacques Cassini 
(1677/1756) 
published 
their 
results after measuring
 an arc of meridian in Europe. Their objective was to measure a line 
extending both sides of latitude 45¡ along the meridian from Barcelona to 
Dunkerque
. Their 
plan was to establish the length of a geodetic foot. They intended 
this foot to be 1/6000 of a 
terrestrial minute of arc.
 Among other achievements, they further refined the value of the earthÕs radius and 
established definitively that the shape of the earth is oblate or slightly flattened near the 
North and South Poles.
 These measurements by Lacaille and Cassini
 formed the basis of the provisional metre 
established in 1793.
 Benjamin Franklin proposed the idea of positive and negative electricity.
 1742 For his meteorological observations Anders Celsius (1701/1744) construct
ed his Celsius 
thermometer, with 0
 ¡C for the boiling point of water and 100
 ¡C for the freezing point. It 
wasn't until after Celsius' death that the scale was reversed to its present form.
 Anders Celsius had previously been part of the French astronomer M
aupertuis' famous 
'Lapland expedition
' in 1736 to the most northern part of Sweden before he began his work 
on his temperature scale. The aim of the '
Lapland expedition
' was to measure the length of a 
degree along a meridian, close to the pole and then to 
compare the result with a similar 
expedition to Peru near the equator. These two expeditions confirmed Isaac Newton's belief 
that the shape of the earth is an ellipsoid flattened at the poles.
 The Royal Society in London arranged an exchange of length stan
dards with the Royal 
Academy of Sciences in Paris. Two identical brass bars were made and a line was marked on 
them to show the length of the standard yard using the 1720 iron bar of Elizabeth I. This 
mark was labelled 'E' (for English). When the French sc
ientists received the two bars they 
marked them with the length of half a toise, labelled it 'F' for France. The French then kept 
one of these bars and sent the other one back to the Royal Society in London.
 In the UK, a new yard became the first imperial 
standard. It was a standard that had been 
commissioned by the Royal Society, which in turn had been based on an earlier Elizabethan 
standard of 1588.
 1743 April 13
 Thomas Jefferson (1784/1789) was born at Shadwell in Virginia. Coincidentally, this was the 
75th anniversary of the publishing of 
Bishop 
John Wilkins description of a '
universal 
measure
' on 1668 April 13.
 1743 George Washington (1732/1799) inherited his father's surveying equipment so he was 
familiar with the simplicity of the decimal measures ma
de using Gunter's decimal chain. This 
was important because it meant that George Washington had practical daily experience in 
actual use of a decimal measuring method that gave him an insight as to how a decimal 
currency system (such as dollars and cents) 
might work better than
 the English
 pounds, 
shillings, and pence or 
the Spanish 
pieces
-of-eight.
 Here is an extract from the historical reference at:
 http://celebrating200y
ears.noaa.gov/theodolites/theodolitehead_zm.html
 Several of our nation's early presidents spent time as surveyors.
   Metrication timeline
 58 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Lawrence and Austin Washington inherited the most valuable of the Washington 
lands when their father died in 1743, leaving younger brother Ge
orge (future first 
president of the United States) in need of a profession. George did inherit 
Augustine Washington's surveying equipment, and, at age sixteen, George 
embarked on his first career. George headed across the Blue Ridge Mountains, then 
conside
red the western frontier, to survey land for Thomas, Lord Fairfax.
 Abraham Lincoln wrote of the time he spent as assistant to the Sangamon County 
(Illinois) Surveyor as something that 'procured bread and kept soul and body 
together'. Unfortunately, it appa
rently didn't always pay the bills, as in 1834 
Lincoln sold his surveying equipment at auction to pay a debt.
 1744 The Swedish naturalist, Carl Linnaeus (1707
-1778), suggested reversing the temperature 
scale of Anders Celsius so that 0 degrees represented the freezing point of water (273.15 K) 
and 100 
degrees 
represented t
he boiling point (373.15 K). This became known 
as the
 centigrade temperature scale 
and it 
gradually became popular throughout the world. The 
units of the centigrade tem
perature scale were designated 'degree centigrade'
 (symbol ¡C).
 The 9th CGPM (Conf”rence G”n”rale des Poids et Mesures) and the CIPM (C
omit” 
International des Poids et Mesures) formally changed the name 'degree centigrade' to 'degree 
Celsius' (and kept the same symbol: ¡C) in 1948.
 1745 In England, Bishop Fleetwood concerned about uniformity of measures wrote:
 What can be more vexatious 
and unprofitable, both to men of reading and 
practice, than to find that when they go out of one country into another, they must 
learn a new language or cannot buy or sell anything. An acre is not an acre; nor a 
bushel a bushel if you but travel ten miles.
 A pound is not a pound if you go from a 
goldsmith to a grocer, nor a gallon a gallon if you go from the alehouse to the 
tavern. What purpose does this variety serve?
 Benjamin Franklin learned about the newly invented Leyden jar (an early type of capacitor
 invented in the Netherlands) from correspondence with Peter Collinson FRS, a London 
merchant. Franklin made his own Leyden jar and wrote an explanation of how the capacitor 
stored electricity. Franklin's explanation included the ideas of positive and nega
tive charge 
and the concept of conservation of charge. These ideas then influenced the next generation of 
European electrical experimenters, such as Alessandro Volta
 (1745
-1827)
 1747 Charles
-Marie de La Condamine (1701/1774) repeated Wilkins' proposal for 
a '
universal 
measure
' when he wrote '
Nouveau projet d'une mesure invariable, propre ‹ servir de 
mesure commune ‹ toutes les nations
' (New project for an invariable measure appropriate to 
serve commu
nity measures for all nations). Condamine wrote about the 
need for common 
measures:
 It is quite evident that the diversity of weights and measures of different countries, 
and frequently in the same province, are a source of embarrassment in commerce, 
in the study of physics, in history, and even in politics itsel
f; the unknown names of 
foreign measures, the laziness or difficulty in relating them to our own give rise to 
confusion in our ideas and leave us in ignorance of facts which could be useful to 
us. The variety of measures in different countries, and even in
 the same country, is 
an embarrassment. It makes life difficult in trade, banking, science, history, and 
even in politics.
   Metrication timeline
 59 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 In France the infinite perplexity of the measures exceeds all comprehension. They 
differ not only in every province, but in every dis
trict and almost every townÕ. A 
pinte of wine in Saint
-Denis was one
-third larger than a pinte in Paris. A 
carpenterÕs pied (foot) was not the same as the ironmongerÕs foot. There were 
about 700 names of measures and 250 000 different units of measurement.
  Condamine proposed that the length of the equatorial seconds pendulum should be adopted 
as a universal standard. He had a brass rod made to this length, sealed it in a block of marble, 
and had it inscribed:
 'A natural unit 
Ñ may it become universal'.
 Jean-Baptiste Joseph Delambre (1747/1822) was born.
 1748 Baron de 
Montesquieu published 
De l'Esprit des Lois
 (The Spirit of the Laws)
 in which he 
emphasised the need to curb arbitrary government by separation and balance of powers. 
Montesquieu's 
ideas were la
ter embodied in the constitution of the USA
 and in the Constitution of 
France
. Benjamin Franklin carried out experiments on lightning.
 1751 The new year in the UK began on 1 January rather than 25 March to bring it into line with the 
rest of Europe because
 England (and the British Dominions) began to use the Gregorian 
calendar (new style) rather than the Julian calendar (old style). Part of the reason given for 
this change was the difficulty of calculating interest of loans. They wrote:
 É attended with dive
rs inconveniences, not only as it differs from the usage of 
neighbouring nations, but also from the legal method of computation in Scotland, 
and from the common usage throughout the whole kingdom, and thereby frequent 
mistakes are occasioned in the dates o
f deeds and other writings, and disputes 
arise therefrom É
 There were people dissatisfied with this decision and a Hogarth painting (of 1755) shows a 
placard that reads '
Give us our Eleven Days
'. Benjamin Franklin wrote to a friend in London, Peter Collins
on, about how he nearly 
electrocuted himself while conducting electrical experiments on turkeys. Collinson published 
Benjamin Franklin's letters on electricity in London.
 After 20 years of research, writing and editing, Denis Diderot published the first vo
lume of 
his 
Encyclop”die
. Diderot had arranged articles by nearly all the leading French writers of the 
time in alphabetical order and then cross
-referenced them to make finding information 
easier. The articles covered many questions of philosophy, religion, literature, politics 
and 
science. Because of the opposition of the Catholic Church to public discussion of many of 
these topics, Diderot was at constant risk of imprisonment or exile. The 
Encyclop”die
 was 
seen as a statement and development of the ideas of the 
philosophes
 of t
he 
Enlightenment
. The 
Encyclop”die
 had a great influence on thinkers in the latter part of the 16th century.
 1752 Benjamin Franklin ran a wet string from a kite to extract electric charge from a storm cloud. 
He pressed his knuckle to a key on the string to
 feel an electric spark and then he charged a 
Leyden jar at the end of the string. The image of Franklin and his kite is one of the most 
familiar in science and it made Benjamin Franklin internationally famous, especially when 
his report describing the exp
eriment was published in the Royal Society's Philosophical 
Transactions in London.
   Metrication timeline
 60 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 England and its American colonies adopted the Gregorian calendar by removing 11 days from 
the year. This was 170 years after the initial adoption of the Gregorian calendar i
n most of 
Europe.
 1753 The Calendar Act (also known as Chesterfield's Act) in the UK made provision to make sure 
that monthly or yearly payments would not become due until the dates that they originally 
would have in the Julian calendar. For this reason th
e UK tax year continued to operate on 
the Julian calendar and began on 5 April, which was the old style date for the new style tax 
year that began on March 25.
 Benjamin Franklin was awarded the Royal Society's Copley Medal. His written comments on 
receivin
g this award are still remembered. He wrote:
 I know not whether any of your learned Body have attain'd the ancient boasted art 
of multiplying Gold, but you have certainly found the Art of making it infinitely 
more valuable.
 In both America and England ther
e were religious objections to Franklin's lightning rods as 
circumventing divine wrath. However the continuing death rate of church bell ringers 
eventually proved Franklin's case!
 Benjamin Franklin received honorary degrees from Harvard and Yale and he was
 appointed 
joint Deputy Postmaster General for North America.
 1755 Two brothers, Francois Ambroise Didot and Pierre Francois Didot
, modified and developed 
Fournier's points for measuring printing type.
 1756 Benjamin Franklin was elected as a Fellow of the 
Royal Society of London even though he 
was a resident of Philadelphia.
 Edmund Burke (1729
-97) published (anonymously) 
A Vindication of Natural Society
. 1757 1757/1762 Benjamin Franklin (1706/1790) was in England as agent for Georgia, 
Massachusetts, New Jer
sey, and the Pennsylvania Assembly.
 Thomas Jefferson inherited his father's (Peter Jefferson) surveying equipment, again with a 
decimal Gunter's Chain
 See 
http://wiki.monticello.org/med
iawiki/index.php/Surveying
 ). This was important because it meant that Thomas Jefferson had practical daily experience in 
actual use of a decimal measuring method that gave him an insight as to a complete system of 
measurement might work for the USA. And l
ike George Washington, it also gave him insight 
into how a decimal currency system (such as dollars and cents) might work better than the 
English pounds, shillings, and pence, or the Spanish pieces
-of-eight.
 Here is another extract from the historical Refe
rence at 
http://celebrating200years.noaa.gov/theodolites/theodolitehead_zm.html
 While it may not be common knowledge that Presidents Washington and Lincoln 
were practition
ers of the science of surveying, it should come as no surprise that 
Thomas Jefferson, the same President who referred to freedom as 'the first born 
daughter of science', sent the Lewis and Clark Expedition west and established the 
Survey of the Coast, was 
also fascinated by the mathematics and techniques of 
surveying. Although he filled the post of Albemarle County (Virginia) Surveyor for 
a short time, Jefferson primarily used his skills on his own lands. However, in 1815, 
  Metrication timeline
 61 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 at the age of 72, Jefferson used t
he theodolite to determine the elevation of the 
Peaks of Otter in the Blue Ridge Mountains.
 This fascinating piece of information provided me with the missing link as to how the system 
of '
universal measure
' travelled from England in 1668 to France in the 
1790s. It seemed to 
me that the idea for a decimally based '
universal measure
' travelled from England to France 
in large part via the USA through two people, George Washington and Thomas Jefferson, as 
both of these men had had direct experience with the si
mplicity of
 decimal numbers in their 
surveying calculations using Gunter's Chain.
 Benjamin Franklin went to London as a colonial agent for the Pennsylvania Assembly. 
Franklin's duties were light so he had time to travel widely and to popularise his scienti
fic 
interests to non
-specialists.
 1758 The English Parliament ordered the construction of a
nother new
 'standard yard
' and 
another new
 'standard pound
' to be 
kept in the Houses of Parliament in London.
 John Bird 
(1709
-1776), an astronomical instrument maker
 who worked in The Strand in London, made 
the standard yard for the government. He then made another one for them in 1760. These 
were the two standard yards that were destroyed when the Houses of Parliament burned 
down in 1834.
 The standard pound was made 
by Harris.
 1759 Benjamin Franklin received honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from the University of St. 
Andrews, Scotland
 Voltaire published his novella Candide, ou l'Optimisme (Candide or The Optimism) in 
translation from German to French.
 The story begin
s with the sheltered life of a young man, Candide, who is being taught by his 
tutor, Pangloss, that:
 all is for the best in the best of all possible worlds.
 Candide's paradisiacal life ends and then Candide has to face the realities of the hardships 
that e
xist in the real world.
 Voltaire was the pen name of Fran“ois
-Marie Arouet (1694/1778). He was a French 
Enlightenment writer and philosopher known for his wit, philosophy, and for his defense of 
civil liberties such as freedom of speech, freedom of religio
n, and free trade. Voltaire often 
used his talents to criticize French customs especially the dogma and practises of the Catholic 
Church, despite the strict censorship laws and their harsh penalties at the time. Despite the 
fact that he had been imprisoned
 in the Bastille, the large prison in Paris, Voltaire continued 
to be an unsparing critic of existing institutions, and in particular the Catholic Church.
 Voltaire was one of the Enlightenment figures whose writings influenced important thinkers 
of both th
e American and French Revolutions.
 1758 An English instrument maker, Mr Bird, made a standard yard for the UK. This was deposited 
with the Clerk of the House of Commons. However, it was never recognised as a legal 
standard for the UK
 1760 Benjamin Franklin
 was elected to the Council of the Royal Society.
   Metrication timeline
 62 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Mr. Bird, an English instrument maker made another similar standard yard at the request of 
a Parliamentary committee. This was not legally recognis
ed as a standard yard until 1824
 May 1 when an act establis
hing imperial measure declared that the yard Bird made in 1760 
would be the prototype of the imperial yard and that all length measures were to be based on 
it. Both of Bird's yards were made of brass and they contained a gold button near each end. A 
dot wa
s engraved in each of these two buttons, with the two dots spaced 1 yard apart. In 
1834, less than ten years later, the UK Houses of Parliament burned down and both of Bird's 
yards 
Ñ the 1758 and the 1760 
Ñ were destroyed.
 1761 Benjamin Franklin perfected 
his glass harmonica, a musical instrument that used the idea of 
a wet finger rubbed around the rim of a wine glass to produce sounds. Both Mozart and 
Beethoven wrote pieces for Franklin's invention. At this time Franklin supported the work of 
Joseph Priest
ley
 (1733
-1804)
, who used electricity to dissociate gases and later discovered 
oxygen and the use of carbon dioxide in carbonated b
everages. Later Joseph Priestly 
went to 
the new American Republic to join Franklin in Pennsylvania.
 John Harrison (1693/1776)
, an English clockmaker and carpenter, invented a highly accurate 
clock, called a chronometer, that was sufficiently accurate to determine longitude at sea.
 1762 Jean Jacques Rousseau published 
Du Contrat Social
 (Of Social Contracts) in which he 
argued tha
t man is:
 É born free, (but) is everywhere in chains
 Rousseau argued strongly that the ideas and desires of the people should be what is actually 
carried out by governments. In short, he argued for democratic governments where a large 
state was split into 
a number of small direct democracies that were bound together into a 
federation. Rousseau's ideas about the nature of democracy were developed later by 
revolutionary leaders in France and the USA.
 1764 Benjamin Franklin charted the Gulf Stream on his way b
ack to England to act as colonial 
agent for Georgia, Massachusetts, and New Jersey from 1764 to 1774. He also proposed the 
idea of watertight compartments to prevent sinking of ships and investigated the way in 
which oil could be used to calm water surface
s. 1766 During Benjamin Franklin's second London visit he petitioned King George III for the 
establishment of central British government for Pennsylvania. He also became friendly with 
the King's physician, Sir John Pringle, who was also President of the Ro
yal Society. The two 
became close companions and they travelled together to Germany (in 1766) and to pre
-Revolutionary France (in 1767) where they met King Louis XV at his palace in Versailles.
 The Congress of the USA appointed Benjamin Franklin to France 
as its first ambassador. He 
served in France as one of the Commissioners of Congress to the French Court from 1776 to 
1784.
 Joseph Priestley  developed the 
inverse square law
 for the force between electric charges.
 1766 March 16
 King Louis XV (1715
-1774), of France, ordered the construction of 80 new standard 
toises
 to 
be based on the geographically surveyed 
toise of Peru
.   Metrication timeline
 63 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1768 The Royal Society sent James 
Cook (1728
-1779)
, on the ship Endeavour,
 to Tahiti where he 
was to observe 
the transit of Venus across the face of the Sun. Astronomers had calculated 
that this would happen in 1769. On his return trip Cook visited the places we now know as 
Australia and New Zealand.
 James Cook had two chronometers with him on this voyage. A chro
nometer is essentially an 
accurate clock that has a built in temperature adjustment for even greater accuracy. An 
accurate chronometer allows a navigator to determine where they are on the globe of the 
Earth. Cook's chronometers were a little over 16 kilog
rams
 and although they were precise, 
they were not accurate
. This didn't matter as the indicated time could be adjusted with tables 
supplied with each clock. I recall a poem by Kenneth Slessor (1901
-1971) that he wrote in 
1925
 that described 
Cook's
 two chr
onometers; 
in part, 
it went:
 Two chronometers the captain had, 
 One by Arnold that ran like mad, 
 One by Kendal in a walnut case, 
 Poor devoted creature with a hangdog face. 
 Arnold always hurried with a crazed click
-click 
 Dancing over Greenwich like a lu
natic, 
 Kendal panted faithfully his watch
-dog beat, 
 Climbing out of Yesterday with sticky little feet.
 1769 James Watt (1736
-1819) patented the steam engine.
 1769 June 3
 Captain James Cook observed the transit of Venus. He wrote in his log:
 This day 
prov'd as favourable to our purpose as we could wish, not a Clowd was to 
be seen É and the Air was perfectly clear, so that we had every advantage we 
could desire in Observing the whole of the passage of the Planet Venus over the 
Suns disk: we very distinc
tly saw an Atmosphere or dusky shade round the body of 
the Planet which very much disturbed the times of the contacts particularly the two 
internal ones."
 David Rittenhouse (1732/1796), an American astronomer, instrument maker and inventor 
also 
made detail
ed observations of the transit of Venus using devices that he had invented or 
built. These included a high precision pendulum clock, an astronomical quadrant, an equal 
altitude instrument, and an astronomical transit. Rittenhouse was professor of astronomy
 at 
the University of Pennsylvania and a consultant to Benjamin Frank
lin and to Thomas 
Jefferson who
 he advised on the project to establish a decimal system of weights and 
measures for the USA.
 1769 August 15
 Napoleon Bonaparte was born at Ajaccio, in Cors
ica. Napoleon was the fourth child of 
Charles Bonaparte and of Lititia, 
n”e
 Ramolino.
   Metrication timeline
 64 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1769-75 Thomas Jefferson became a Member of Virginia House of Burgesses where he helped to set 
up the Virginia Committee of Correspondence.
 1770 The UK passed the False W
eights and Scales Act
 1771 The 1771 edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica says: '
The point thus prefixed is called the 
decimal point
' in its article on '
Arithmetick
'. 1773 Jesse Ramsden invented the circular
-dividing engine. 
Early models of this machine 
were able 
to divide circles to a repeatable accuracy of three seconds of arc; later models reduced this to 
one second of arc.
 This meant that 
all of 
his surveying and astronomical instruments could be made much more 
accurately and precisely.
 Ramsden soon g
ained a high reputation for the high quality 
instruments
 that he
 produced. These included high quality physics apparatus but also 
included 
eyeglasses 
and
 large astronomical 
telescopes
. The leading scientists of his time 
recognized RamsdenÕs work by making 
him
 a Fellow
 of the Royal Society in 1786.
 1774 Gilbert White and the Royal Society published his letters on ornithology, the study of birds. 
Later (in 1784), his systematic records were published in a book, '
The Natural History of 
Selborne
' that became on
e of the most popular nature books of all time.
 1775 Marie
-Jean-Antoine
-Nicolas Caritat, marquis de Condorcet (1743/1794), usually just called 
Condorcet
, wrote about having an invariable 
standard 
measure 
that was 
based on a natural 
standard 
taken
 from natu
re. Condorcet hoped that that this would lead to a standard that 
would not be based on any national vanity
; that
 could be used by all foreign nations
; and 
that 
it would be used
 for all international trade between all nations.
 Benjamin Franklin left London,
 and shortly afterward presided over the constitutional 
convention serving on a committee of five who drafted the Declaration of Independence that 
declared the independence of a new nation, the United States of America.
 The constitution writers recognised 
the importance of a uniform system of weights and 
measures for the whole of the USA so in Article I, Section 8, of the constitution they wrote 
that Congress would have the power
 'to coin money ... and fix the standard of weights and measures.
' Benjamin Fra
nklin was elected as the Pennsylvania delegate to the second Continental 
Congress that expelled royal officials and formed an army. Franklin also served as Chairman 
of Pennsylvania Committee of Safety and he was elected Postmaster General for the Colonies.
 Andr”
-Marie Amp‘re (1775
-1836) was born in Lyon, France. The SI unit of measurement of 
electric current, the ampere, is named after him. Although he was a French physicist and 
mathematician, he was awarded with a Fellowship Of the Royal Society (FRS) of L
ondon 
because he was generally regarded 
as 
the main discoverer of electromagnetism.
   Metrication timeline
 65 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1775 April 18
 Paul Revere's midnight ride to warn colonists that: '
The British are coming
'. Paul Revere 
(1735/1818) was a silversmith, part
-time dentist, and a highly 
regarded patriot.
 1775-76 Thomas Jefferson attended the Continental Congress. He was chosen to be on the committee 
to write the Declaration of Independence and quickly become its main author.
 1776 Benjamin Franklin returned to Europe as one of the Commissi
oners of Congress to the 
French Court to represent the new United States of America in Paris. He carefully cultivated 
an image as a fur cap
-wearing frontiersman seeking freedom from an oppressive 
government, which endeared him to the French, and greatly in
creased his effectiveness as an 
agent of the USA.
 Lieutenant General Jean
-Baptiste Vaquette de Gribeauval (1715
-1789) developed new 
methods for producing military cannons. Gribeauval is usually given the credit for 
engineering in a way that allowed for the
 interchangeability of gun parts. Cannons produced 
using Gribeauval's new manufacturing system proved essential to French military victories 
during the Napoleonic wars.
 Gribeauval's concept of uniformity and interchangeability of parts was soon promoted in
 the 
USA by Thomas Jefferson, who could see the benefits that these properties could make to 
guns made in the USA. To achieve uniformity and interchangeability it was necessary to 
measure more accurately and more precisely than had ever been done before. T
hey also 
needed many advances in precision in machine tools and their application. In the USA, 
Thomas Jefferson was a natural champion for these advancements so gun
-makers in the USA 
were soon able to accomplish remarkable results using Gribeauval's method
s. 1776-79 Thomas Jefferson became a Member of Virginia House of Delegates where he was involved in 
rewriting state legal documents to reflect republican principles concerning landholding, 
inheritance, and criminal law.
 1777 Nicolas Caritat, marquis de Con
dorcet (usually known simply as Condorcet) became 
secretary of the French Academy of Science and he held this position until his death in 1793.
 1778 Jacques Necker, the Controller General of Finance in France, reported to Louis XVI that he 
had examined the
 means that might be employed to render the weights and measures 
uniform throughout the 
French 
kingdom, but doubted whether the result would be 
proportionate to the difficulties involved.
 Benjamin Franklin signed the '
French Alliance
' between France and th
e United States of 
America, but Franklin's primary objective of raising funds for a war against Britain as an 
enemy nation did not prevent him from promoting the cause of science.
 For example, Franklin wrote a '
passport
' for Captain James Cook FRS, who was
 then on his 
third voyage of discovery in the Pacific on a ship called '
The Resolution
'. Franklin urged the 
captains of any armed ships acting for the United States of America to regard Cook and his 
crew as:
   Metrication timeline
 66 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 common Friends to Mankind É 
and
 É to treat the s
aid Captain Cook and his 
People with all Civility and Kindness.
 Benjamin 
Franklin also maintained cordial links with Sir Joseph Banks, John Pringle's 
successor as President of the Royal Society. Franklin sent news of the latest in French science 
to Joseph 
Banks and to John Pringle. John Pringle probably lost the presidency of the Royal 
Society largely because he backed Franklin's idea that pointed lightning rods were more 
effective than rounded ones.
 Franklin perfected bifocal spectacles in Paris and these 
became one of his most famous 
inventions.
 1778 February 6
 France played an important part in the victory of the USA over Britain by providing military 
help to the USA on both land and sea. Official support of the USA by France came with a 
formal treaty of 
friendship and alliance signed on this day by Louis XVI, king of France, and 
Benjamin Franklin, Ambassador to France from the USA. Many young French aristocrats 
passionately embraced the rebellion of the 13 American colonies against British rule.
 1778 Dece
mber 15
 Napoleon embarks for France with his father, his brother Joseph, and his uncle Fesch.
 1779 Benjamin Franklin was appointed to negotiate a peace treaty with England.
 Captain James Cook sailed around the world with four chronometers to enable him to 
determine longitude accurately.
 This ability, to determine longitude accurately, was treated as a military secret by 
the English 
Navy
 to the extent that 
the chronometer's inventor, John
 Harrison 
1693/1776 had great 
difficulty being rewarded for his inventi
on. 
This single invention enabled England to become 
the master of the world 
seas for several hundred years. Accurate and precise measurement 
can have far
-reaching effects.
 1779-81 Thomas Jefferson was Governor of Virginia
 1781 French involvement in the 
American war of independence proved decisive, with a French 
naval victory in the Chesapeake leading to the surrender of a British army at Yorktown.
 William Herschel discovered a new planet inside the solar system that was eventually named 
Uranus.
 1781 Janu
ary 30
 Joseph II and Ferdinand signed a decree in Vienna that laid down a reform program to 
standardise measures of length where the '
ell of Milan
' was to become the standard length. 
This reform was restricted to the state of Milan. Their justification for
 this reform could have 
been used in any European country at that time; they said:
 The dimensions and diversity of the measures in use in different regions of our 
state, although it has one law and obeys one ruler, and the absence or inexactitude 
of the st
andards employed by the agencies of control 
Ñ these are matters that have 
always been considered as sources of errors É and a hindrance to the flow of 
secure internal and foreign trade.
   Metrication timeline
 67 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1781 March 13
 Friedrich Wilhelm (William) Herschel (1738
-1822), an orc
hestral musician (oboe and cello), 
an organist, and composer, discovered the planet Uranus. In his musical and astronomical 
work, Herschel was assisted by his sister Caroline Lucretia Herschel (1750
-1848). Caroline 
was a gifted soprano and astronomer who l
ater discovered 8 comets.
 1782 Jean-Charles De Borda (1733/1799), while he was involved in supporting the American War 
of Independence, was in command of a flotilla of six French ships when the British Navy 
captured him.
 Borda was also a French mathematici
an and nautical astronomer who developed instruments 
for navigation and for geodesy (the study of the size and shape of the Earth). Borda 
developed a series of trigonometric tables for his studies in astronomy, calculus, fluid 
mechanics, geodesy, navigatio
n, physics, surveying, and for the further development of his 
scientific instruments.
 Later Borda was one of the main driving forces in the introduction of the decimal metric 
system as the legal measures of France.
 In the USA, Thomas Jefferson argued for a
 decimal currency sys
tem with 100 cents in a 
dollar. Jefferson reasoned that dividing America's First Silver Dollar into 100 cents was the 
simplest way of doing this and that a decimal system based on America's First Silver Dollar 
should be adopted as the 
American standard. His plan went like this:
 10 m
ills = 1 c
ent
 10 c
ents
 =  1 d
ime
 10 d
imes
 =  1 d
ollar
 10 d
ollars
 = 1 e
agle
 Although the mill was a denomination used only in computations 
Ð it is never intended to be 
a coin 
Ð it appeared again a few years 
later as milli as a prefix for the metric system.
 1783 Benjamin Franklin signed the Peace Treaty between the Kingdom of England and the United 
States of America. The Treaty of Paris in 1783 formally ended the war and recognized the 
sovereignty of the Unite
d States over the territory bounded by (what is now) Canada, Florida, 
and the Mississippi River.
 Franklin was present to witness the first hot air balloon demonstrations by the Montgolfier 
brothers. Franklin favored the hydrogen method and helped to financ
e balloons tests, 
sending word of the first manned flight back to Joseph Banks in England shortly after the 
Montgolfiers' successful flight experiments.
 Jean Dominique Cassini, the Director of the Paris Observatory, suggested the observatory in 
Paris and t
he Greenwich observatory be carefully surveyed so that observations made at 
either place could be compared. This could be resolved by triangulating the south
-east of 
England and extending the measurement across the channel to France. The President of the 
Royal Society, Joseph Banks supported this suggestion and appointed Major General William 
Roy to do the work. To begin, Roy commissioned Jesse Ramsden, a very well respected 
scientific instrument maker to make him a number of new instruments to do this work
.   Metrication timeline
 68 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1784 Using Jesse Ramsden's new instruments, William Roy measured a base line with deal rods 
and iron bars as 27,404 feet. He then re
-measured the same line with 1370 placements of 
glass rods and the length was then given as 27
 406 ft. Then, allowing corr
ections for 
temperature
, and to correct for mean sea
-level, the value was determined to be 27,404.2 ft. 
We would now take this to be 8352.800
 metres or 8.352800 kilometres.
 In September 1784 Jean Dominique Cassini, Comte de Thury, wrote to Charles Blagden,
 the 
recently elected Secretary of the Royal Society asking Blagden to support him to become a 
member of the Royal Society to carry on his fatherÕs work at the Royal Society. He was elected 
in 1789; his father had been elected in 1750.
 1784-89 Thomas Jeffe
rson served in France as Commissioner and Minister to the French Court.
 1785 Charles
-Augustin de Coulomb (1736
-1806) presented his three reports on Electricity and 
Magnetism. In these Coulomb defined the electrostatic force of attraction and repulsion that
 became known as Coulomb's law. The SI unit of charge, the coulomb, was named after him.
 After the war the several states of the USA had to honor the grants of land they had made to 
the officers and men of the Revolutionary army. They also had to repay the
 debts they owed 
to foreign governments, especially to France. By 1785 most of the states had decided to pass 
the authority for doing this to the federal government so Congress passed its first ordinance 
describing the method to be used for surveying and c
utting up its new lands for disposal to 
soldiers, creditors, and settlers. In 
The Measure of Enlightenment
, J.L. Heilbron describes 
the process like this:
 The ordinance represented a great victory for the quantifiers, led by Thomas 
Jefferson, who insisted 
that the lands be surveyed into equal spans before being 
offered, and subdivided into parts affordable by small farmers; their opponents, 
primarily southern aristocrats and plantation owners, favored large grants to 
companies or wealthy individuals who wou
ld undertake to divide it up into such 
shapes and by such boundaries as suited their interests. É
 Jefferson's  original proposal would have divided the western territories into what 
he called "hundreds"
Ñsquares with sides of 10 nautical miles
Ñrather than t
he 
townships of 36 square statute miles Congress eventually authorized. Each 
hundred was to contain 1,000 Jeffersonian acres and so on, for Jefferson, who 
invented the American system of pennies, dimes, and dollars, championed decimal 
division almost as st
rongly as democracy. He and the professor of mathematics 
who helped him work out his system of rigid squares recommended it for its order 
and clarity, and as an obstacle to cheating. They argued that irregular lots 
inspired fraud, and could point to the ex
perience of Massachusetts, which 
discovered that holdings in the country typically held 10 percent more land, and 
often 100 percent more land, than had been granted. Friendly surveyors set the 
boundaries where their clients wished. The square grid made the
 practice much 
more difficult and allowed purchasers to get more or less what they paid for.
 Despite
 his comments
, Jefferson's arguments did not prevail and 
Federal legislation in the 
USA required that official surveys 
were
 to be done using Gunter's chains
 made up of 100 
links each 7.92 inches long. This was in recognition that Gunter's Chain had been already 
widely used for many years throughout the USA.
 The Pavillon de Breteuil was given its present name when it became associated with the most 
distinguish
ed member of the Breteuil family, Louis
-Auguste le Tonnelier, Baron de Breteuil 
  Metrication timeline
 69 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 (1730
Ð1807). Baron de Breteuil had a distinguished career in the diplomatic service of the 
King of France. At one time, he was ambassador to Russia during the reigns of Elizabe
th and 
Catherine
 II. After many successful international negotiations, the Baron returned to France 
in 1783 and was made Minister of the King's Household, and Minister for Paris.
 The Baron 
de Breteuil 
was a man whose humanitarian and social views were far 
in advance of 
his time. During his period as Minister for Paris, he introduced far
-reaching reforms in 
hospitals and prisons. He also took a great interest in the world of science and became a 
member of the French Academy of Sciences.
 1785 April 28
 James M
adison (1751
-1836) wrote to James Monroe (1758
-1831) to express his concerns 
about currency, weights, and measures. It would appear that James Madison (who would be 
the 4
th President of the USA) had been influenced by the decimal ideas about currency, 
weig
hts, and measures of Thomas Jefferson (who would be the 3
rd President of the USA) and 
was passing on these ideas to James Monroe (who would be the 5
th President of the USA).
 I hear frequent complaints of the disorders of our coin, and the want of 
uniformity 
in the denominations of the States. Do not Congress think of a remedy for these 
evils? The regulation of weights and measure seem also to call for their attention. 
Every day will add to the difficulty of executing these works. If a mint be not 
established and a recoinage effected while the federal debts carry the money 
through the hands of Congress, I question much whether their limited powers will 
ever be able to render this branch of their prerogative effectual. With regard to the 
regulation of
 weights and measures, would it not be highly expedient, as well as 
honorable to the federal administration, to pursue the hint which has been 
suggested by ingenious and philosophical men, to wit: that the standard of 
measure should be first fixed by the l
ength of a pendulum vibrating seconds at the 
Equator or any given latitude; and that the standard of weights should be a cubical 
piece of gold, or other homogeneous body, of dimensions fixed by the standard of 
measure ? Such a scheme appears to be easily r
educible to practice; and as it is 
founded on the division of time, which is the same at all times and in all places, and 
proceeds on other data which are equally so, it would not only secure a perpetual 
uniformity throughout the United States, but might l
ead to universal standards in 
these matters among nations. Next to the inconvenience of speaking different 
languages, is that of using different and arbitrary weights and measures.
 1784-1789 In the late 1780s, French weights and measures were a mess. There
 were hundreds of units, 
many of which had hundreds of local values. At the same time the French economy was 
industrialising but its measuring methods could not support these developments.
 Long before the revolution, French people from all walks of life we
re calling for measurement 
reforms and there was a feeling that measurements should, somehow or other, be '
natural
', rather than being based on the hated '
royal foot
'. Charles Maurice de Talleyrand
-P”rigord (1754/1838), Bishop of Autun (but usually known 
simply as Talleyrand), in France; Sir John Riggs
-Miller, in England; and Thomas Jefferson, 
USA Minister to France
 from 1784 to 1789
; corresponded on a proposal for universal 
measures. It seems most likely that Jefferson promoted his strong support for decim
al 
measurement and for decimal currency at this time.
 Essentially, Talleyrand, Riggs
-Miller, and Jefferson were proposing that their three nations 
should cooperate to equalise their weights and measures, by the joint introduction of a 
'decimal syst‘me metr
ique
' (decimal metric system).
   Metrication timeline
 70 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 The decimal nature of the new 
decimal metric system
 probably 
arose from the influence of 
three men: Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and George Washington
 who 
provide
d the 
missing link as to how the system of '
universal m
easure
' Ñ now kn
own as the metric system 
or SI 
Ñ travelled from England in 1668 to France in the 1790s. It 
appears that
 it travelled in 
large part through the USA via two people, George Washington and Thomas Jefferson, who 
had both had direct experience wi
th the ease of use of decimal numbers in their surveying 
calculations using Gunter's Chain
 and Benjamin Franklin, who was a promoter of decimal 
currency
. 1786 Thomas Jefferson proposed that the USA adopt a decimal system for their currency. 
The 
Congress of
 the USA established the silver dollar as the basis for decimal coins although this 
was not minted until 1792.
 At the same time Thomas Jefferson independently developed a system of 
decimal 
measures 
for all measuring. Jefferson's decimal measures heavily 
influenced
 the 
development of the 
French 
decimal metric system
 that arose in the 1790s
. He differed from the French in that he 
wanted the metre to be the length of a pendulum that beats seconds because other countries 
could readily reconstitute that at any
 time. He did not like the idea that the metre was based 
on a series of measurements made within the French nation. However, considering how 
much gravitational forces (together with centrifugal forces) vary over the surface of the earth 
with latitude 
Ñ mor
e than 1% 
Ñ the pendulum definition for the universal measure of length 
was losing widespread support among scientists.
 Thomas Jefferson visited London, then the largest city in the western world. He was there 
from 
1786 
March 12 to 
1786 
April 26. T
his was 
the only visit Jefferson ever made to London.
 1787 Benjamin Franklin designed the '
Fugio
' one
-cent piece. The Congress of the USA asked 
Benjamin Franklin to design this coin, as there was a shortage of small coins at the time. 
Franklin's design for the fir
st one
-cent coin for the USA later became known as the '
Fugio
' cent because on one side of the coin he placed the word Fugio next to a sundial together with 
one of his favorite mottoes, 'Mind Your Business'. He intended this to imply that '
Time Flies
' so '
Mind Your Business
'. On the other side of the coin Franklin had thirteen entwined rings, 
one for each of the thirteen states and in the centre he had the words: '
We are one
'. Franklin's 
Fugio Cents were minted and entered circulation immediately.
 On Septem
ber 17, the United States of America adopted the Constitution as the supreme law 
of the United States of America. It took effect in 1789. Article I, Section 8, of the Constitution 
provides that Congress shall have the power:
 to coin money ... and fix the s
tandard of weights and measures.
 Another provision of the Constitution stated that 'all duties, imposts and excises shall be 
uniform throughout the United States of America'. Benjamin Franklin was one of the 
signatories of the United States Constitution.
 To avert a bankruptcy, King Louis XVI convened the Estates General for the purpose of 
imposing new taxes. The Estates General had not met since 1614. One of the issues for 
discussion was that of fair and honest measurement because although many previous 
att
empts to impose the '
Parisian
' units on the whole of France, they were opposed by the 
church, the guilds, and the nobles who benefited greatly from measurement confusion.
 The Baron de Breteuil resigned from the King's service.
   Metrication timeline
 71 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1787 September
 Cross
-channel 
measurements were taken linking France and England. While this work was 
proceeding, triangulation survey work continued further inside England, forming the basis of 
the Ordnance Survey. This was the final part of the process to connect the observatory in 
Paris and the Greenwich observatory so that they could accurately share data with each 
other.
 1787 September 17
 The Constitution of the USA was created giving the Congress of the USA the power to
: fix the standard of weights and measures.
 1788 In Paris, the
re were methods of producing portraits that would certainly have appealed to 
anyone with scientific curiosity. In one Paris studio customers sat for silhouette portraits 
using a device, called a psysiognotrace. Both Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin w
ere 
customers for these portraits.
 Another one of these had a complicated device that enabled the 
inventor to produce exact three
-dimensional models of their subjects. Again, American 
Ambassadors Franklin and Jefferson were customers.
 1788 June
 Just before
 the Revolution, Gaspar de Prony declared the pendulum to be the ultimate 
standard for length. He wrote that the standard length should be:
 É the length of the simple pendulum, an invariable quantity always easy to 
recover, seemed given by nature to serve 
as a measure in all countries.
 At this time, Sir John Riggs
-Miller was about to introduce proposals for the reform of English 
weights and measures when he received a letter from Talleyrand inviting Britain to join 
France in finding the length of a seconds 
pendulum. The British considered the advantages of 
this suggestion, and of calibrating their yard by the pendulum, in order that:
 É all future generations may obtain similar measures of length, capacity, and 
weight, and thereby render it altogether needles
s to cut them on stone, or to 
engrave them on brass, to perpetuate their existence.
 1788 June 21
 The Constitution of the USA was ratified.
 1789 Sir John Riggs Miller raised the question of honesty in weights and measures in the UK 
House of Commons and shared his thoughts on rational methods to improve weights and 
measures. He also pointed out the 
difficulties arising from the use of multiple measu
res in 
the UK where he was quoted as saying that disorganised measures led to:
 ... the perplexing of all dealings, and the benefitting of knaves and cheats
 The First Congress of the USA took up the question of weights and measures, and had the 
metric syste
m been available at that time it might have been adopted. What actually 
happened is that Thomas Jefferson, who was then serving as the first Secretary of State, 
submitted a report proposing a decimal
-based system with a mixture of familiar and 
unfamiliar n
ames for the units.
 No doubt, Thomas Jefferson passed copies of this report to 
his friends in Paris, such as Talleyrand and Condorcet, 
and to John Riggs Miller in the UK, 
who he knew were also working on reform of weights and measures.
 It is likely that th
ey were 
  Metrication timeline
 72 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 impressed by his report as they were with his success at promoting a decimal currency for the 
USA.
 1789 March/April
 King Louis XVI ordered that a list of grievances (
cahiers de dol”ances
) be written. 
These 
grievances were then to be considered by t
he Estates General, a meeting of the three French 
Estates consisting of the First Estate, the Clergy; the Second Estate, the Nobility; and the 
Third Estate, the Bourgeoisie, the 
Urban Workers and the peasants.
 Measuring issues were a constant theme in thes
e lists of grievances especially about how they 
related to rents, tithes and taxes. Delegates from many French towns petitioned King Louis 
XVI to unify the measuring methods in France so that they were fair to all. 
Here are some 
examples from the 
cahiers d
e dol”ances:
 Are the seigneurs not obliged to present to us some documents in support of the s
ize 
of the measures they employ?
 In cases where the seigneurs' measures are found to be in excess of what they 
should be, are they not obliged to restore to their
 rent payers the resultant excess 
amounts? Over how many years, retrospectively, may the payers demand such 
'restitutions'; does the usual time
-limit applicable to private prosecutions, thirty 
years, hold here, or should the measuring abuses be deemed crim
inal fraud and be 
subject to no rule of lapse at all?
 The seigneurs avail themselves of the crafty dealings of their underlings, who 
recover from the tenants the large amount they had themselves been forced to 
invest, as the price of their position
 The gra
in measures must now be heaped not striked as they were in the past.
 The seigneur's agents are employing two different measures: one of them is larger 
than the proper one and is used in the collection at the granary. The payers are not 
blind to this injust
ice, but are too afraid to protest.
 The seigneurs and their agents use falsified and oversized measures.
 The seigneurs have been gradually increasing their boisseaux (bushels), until, in 
effect, the payments of dues they exacted are quite arbitrary.
 There 
are almost as many local measures to collect dues, as there are estates.
 What is the use to us of the abolition of the feudal system, if the seigneurs remain at 
liberty arbitrarily to increase or decrease their measures?
 What is to be done in instances whe
n, the seigneur having failed to produce 
documents in support of his right to use the measure he has adopted, a proper 
agreed
-upon measure has to be determined?
 No doubt the king hoped that by giving the people of France the chance to express their 
hopes and grievances directly to the king would help to relieve tensions. However, the writing 
of the 
cahiers de dol”ances
 forced the people to think about the problems
 that France faced, 
and about how wanted them fixed, so they added greatly to an air of revolutionary 
expectation in France.
 1789 May 5
 The French Estates General convened at the Palace of Versailles. The Estates General 
consisted of the three French Estat
es; the first estate was the church; the second estate was 
the nobles; and the third estate was the commoners.
   Metrication timeline
 73 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1789 June 17
 The Third Estate, consisting of the middle class bourgeoisie, the urban workers and the 
peasants, proclaims itself to be the Nationa
l Assembly of France.
 This decision left out 
members of first estate, the church; and the second estate, the nobles.
 1789 June 27
 The French Academy of Science named Commissioners 
to work with the drafting of a plan for 
the
 uniformity of weights and measur
es in France
. The commissioners were: 
Jean Charles de 
Borda
 (1733
-1799), 
Joseph
-Louis Comte de Lagrange
 (1736
-1813), 
Pierre
-Simon Laplace
 (1749
-1827), 
Gaspard Monge
 (1746 
-1818), and 
Marie Jean Antoine Nicholas Caritat, the 
Marquis de Condorcet
 (1743
-1794).
 1789 July 14
 The storming of the Bastille took place marking the beginning of the French Revolution that 
continued until 1799. Among the demands of the people who overthrew the French king was 
a demand for fair weights and measures.
 The cry o
f the peasants throughout France on the eve of the Revolution was an old one first 
used in 1302:
 One King, one law, one measure, and one weight
 In the midst of the French Revolution, the National Assembly of France requested the French 
Academy of Sciences 
to:
 deduce an invariable standard for all the measures and all the weights.
 This resulted in the French revolutionary government supporting the development of a 
decimal metric system that has stood the test of time and has gradually evolved into the 
predom
inant measurement system 
in the world.
 The Baron de Breteuil was recalled to the King's service and from the 1789 July 11 to July 
16th (for 6 days!), he was the King's chief minister. Three or four days after the storming of 
the Bastille, the Baron fled Fr
ance. The last service he was able to provide to his King was to 
act as a mission to the other European sovereigns; for this he was entrusted with a literal 
'Carte blanche', a blank sheet of paper carrying nothing but the King of France's signature. 
Follow
ing the Baron de Breteuil's departure from France, the Pavillon de Breteuil became 
state owned.
 When the Estates General assembled in 1789, the commoners, representing the Third Estate, 
declared that they were the only legitimate representatives of the peo
ple, and they succeeded 
in having the church and the nobles join them in the formation of the National Asse
mbly. T
he 
new National Assembly 
began drafting
 a new French constitution.
 Following the French revolution, the new democracy decided to introduce new
, universal 
measures. French scientists, like their colleagues in other European countries had been 
considering a new, universal measuring system for more than 120 years since John Wilkins 
published his idea for a '
universal measure'
. At the same time, mea
surement and science had 
become even more precise. Science, especially the geographers, needed a trusted basis of 
measurement. Trade and commerce were also greatly impeded by the bewildering array of 
measures, often with the same name, but describing diffe
rent quantities. It has been 
estimated that in France alone, about 250 000 different measurement units were in use at 
the time. This situation was probably matched by an equal chaos in Germany and other 
nations.
 Benjamin Franklin became President of the So
ciety for Promoting the Abolition of Slavery 
and wrote an anti
-slavery treatise.
   Metrication timeline
 74 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1789 August 4
 Feudalism was abolished in France. 
The French National Assembly passed laws that did away 
with the feudal system of land management that had been the way that th
ings were managed 
in France since ancient times. These laws were augmented with further laws passed in May 
1790 that completed the abolition of feudalism. These laws meant that the local '
seigneurs
' no longer had a monopoly on weights and measures. It also
 effectively meant that France had 
no method of measurement at all. This lack of any measurements led to an intolerable legal 
vacuum and lawlessness.
 This void somehow had to be filled, and this had to be done against a background where 
many were attemptin
g to safeguard their numerous vested interests. As the new National 
Assembly was seeking to fulfil the dreams of progressive thinkers they were simultaneously 
trying to satisfy the aspirations of the bourgeoisie. And all participants were fully aware of 
their complaints because they had only recently powerfully expressed them in the 
cahiers de 
dol”ances
. Many had complained about the metrological duplicities of the 
seigneurs
 and the 
situation had grown worse in many provinces during the Revolution because o
f the 
'seigneurial reaction
' as the seigneurs jockeyed to gain the best possible post
-revolutionary 
position. The task was gigantic and not all the difficulties were at first appreciated.
 1789 August 14
 Jean Baptiste Le Roy, who was a physicist, a mathemat
ician, and who at one time had been a 
clockmaker, suggested that the Academy propose to the National Assembly that they dissolve 
all of the old measures currently in use in France and replace them all with the length of a 
pendulum that beat seconds at the 
45th parallel of latitude. It is likely that the Academy's 
secretary, the marquis De Condorcet, drew up this proposal and then asked Talleyrand to 
present it as the Academy's proposal to the National Assembly. Talleyrand also proposed that 
the British be i
nvited to join in the determination of the correct length and in promoting the 
use of the new measure '
so that all nations might adopt it
'. 1789 August 27
 The 
Declaration of Rights of Man and Citizen
 was enacted in France as the new French 
Constitution.
 1789 October 5
-6 During the '
October Days
' in France, there was a womenÕs march on the Palace of Versailles 
and King Louis XVI was brought back to Paris
 1789-93 By the end of 1789, Franklin's Fugio cents were in wide circulation throughout the USA, so 
Jeff
erson's decimal currency was well established by the time George Washington was 
inaugurated as the nation's first president on 1789 April 16.
 Thomas Jefferson became the first Secretary of State for President George Washington after 
his return from France.
 During his term as the first United States Secretary of State, 
Jefferson proposed a decimal
-based measurement system for the USA (See: 
http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/
Gene_Nygaard/t_jeff.htm
 for the full text of 
Jefferson's proposal
 and see 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plan_for_Establish
ing_Uniformity_in_the_Coinage,_Weights
,_and_Measures_of_the_United_States
 for the Wikipedia discussion of this plan
.   Metrication timeline
 75 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1790 In 1790 Talleyrand, then the Bishop of Autun, made a report to the Constituent Assembly on 
the state of French weights and measures, a
nd in it suggested a new measure of length based 
on the length of the seconds pendulum at the latitude of 45¡N. He also suggested that the 
Academy of Sciences in Paris collaborate with the Royal Society of London in defining the 
new unit. The Assembly and 
subsequently Louis XVI approved this proposal, but nothing 
came of it.
 1790 January 8
 George Washington (1732/1799), in his first message to Congress, reminded the legislators of 
their responsibility on weights and measures when he said:
 A uniformity of we
ights and measures is among the important objects submitted to 
you by the Constitution, and, if it can be derived from a standard at once 
invariable and universal, it must be no less honorable to the public council than 
conducive to the public convenience.
 É Uniformity in the currency, weights, and 
measures of the United States is an object of great importance, and will, I am 
persuaded, be duly attended to.
 George Washington
 repeated his call for uniformity in the currency, weights, and measures of 
the Unit
ed States of America with similar calls for action in his second and third annual 
presidential messages to congress (later these annual reports became known as the '
State of 
the Union Address
').
 George Washington was clearly referring to an idea similar to
 Wilkins' '
universal measure
' when he said, '
derived from a standard at once invariable and universal
'. The Congress accepted that decimal currency had been agreed between the states in 1785 but 
that uniform standard measures remained a problem. The USA Co
ngress discussed which 
weights and measures to use for the USA and then responded to 
George Washington
's speech 
by asking Secretary of State, 
Thomas Jefferson 
(1743/1826), to make a special report on the 
subject of measurement for the USA. 
Jefferson 
presen
ted 
his repo
rt to Congress on 
1790 
July
 13. 
Congress had the authority to decide on a standard of weights and measurement as a 
Constitutional right, under Article I, Section 8.
 1790 February 9
 The Prieur du Vernois 
(1763/1832), 
later known as the Prieur de
 la Cote
-d'O
r, presented a 
suggestion to the National Academy of France for a single uniform set of weights and 
measures. His proposal was based on a seconds pendulum timed at the Paris Observatory. 
The pendulum was to be divided into thirds to make a Pari
s foot (which would also be the 
national foot for France). The French foot was to be divided into 10 inches, each of 10 lines; 
and 10 feet would be equal to 1 rod. This suggestion has a remarkable similarity to t
hat made 
earlier 
by Thomas Jefferson to
 the 
Congress of the USA.
 1790 March 28
 King Louis XVI issued a decree that abolished 
Ð without compensation 
Ð all feudal rights 
with respect to weights and measures.
 1790 March 29
 Talleyrand
, the Bishop of Autun,
 put Prieur's suggestion to the French National 
Assembly. In 
doing so he adjusted it slightly making the length of the pendulum a standard length at a 
latitude of 45 degrees. Talleyrand did this to make the proposal independ
ent of any particular 
location.
   Metrication timeline
 76 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Talleyrand's proposal
 was referred to the French
 Committee on Agriculture and Commerce, 
who recommended it to the king, who sanctioned action on August 22 (see below).
 At this time, Talleyrand was also aware that both the UK and the USA were investigating the 
possibility of new methods of measuring. He 
actively encouraged the idea that the 
governments of the UK, the USA, and France should work together with the French Academy 
of Sciences and the Royal Society in London to create a new system of universal measure.
 The House of Commons in England 
again 
discussed a proposal from Sir John Riggs Miller to 
establish uniform weights and measures throughout England and Scotland.
 Knowing that Sir John Riggs Miller had raised the question of weights and measures in the 
British House of Commons during 1789, Talle
yrand, Bishop of Autun, wrote this private 
letter to him. This is Sir John Riggs Miller's tran
slation of Talleyrand's letter.
 Sir,
 I understand that you have submitted for the consideration of the British 
Parliament, a valuable plan for the equalization of
 measures: I have felt it my duty 
to make a like proposition to our National Assembly. It appears to me worthy of 
the present epoch that the two Nations should unite in their endeavour to establish 
an invariable measure and that they should address themsel
ves to Nature for this 
important discovery.
 If you and I think alike on this subject, and that you are of opinion that much 
general benefit may be derived from it, it is through you only that we can hope for 
its accomplishment; and I beg to recommend it to
 your consideration. Too long 
have Great Britain and France been at variance with each other, for empty honour 
or for guilty interests. It is time that two free Nations should unite their exertions 
for the promotion of a discovery that must be useful to ma
nkind.
 I have the honour to be, Sir, with due respect, your most humble and obedient 
servant,
 The Bishop of Autun
 Talleyrand's proposals for a new measuring method were based on a survey he had done on 
the measures currently in use in France. The mess they
 were in can be gauged from this quote 
from 
The Measure of Enlightenment
 By J. L. Heilbron. You can see this quotation in context 
at: 
http://content.cdlib.org/xtf/view?docId=ft6d5nb455&doc.view=content&chunk.id=d0e9255
&toc.depth=1&anchor.id=0&brand=eschol
 ):
 The existence of French men and women around 1790 was made miserable by, 
among other things, 700 or 800 differently 
named measures and untold units of 
the same name but different sizes. A 'pinte' in Paris came to 0.93 litre; in Saint
-Denis, to 1.46; in Seine
-en-Montagne, to 1.99; in Pr”cy
-sous
-Thil, to 3.33. The aune, 
a unit of length, was still more prolific: Paris had
 three, each for a different sort of 
cloth; Rouen had two; and France as a whole no fewer than seventeen, all in 
common use and all different, the smallest amounting to just under 300 lignes, 
royal measure, the largest to almost 600.
 France possessed non
-uniform measures in law as well as by custom. Their 
multiplicity went with other relics of the feudal system, which maintained 
arbitrary rents and duties usually to the disadvantage of the peasant. A landlord 
wanted his bushels of grain or hogsheads of beer
 in the biggest measures in use in 
the neighborhood, and he preferred to sell according to the smallest. Nor were all 
seigneurs above enlarging the vessel in which they collected their rents; and since 
in many cases they possessed the only exemplars of the
ir patrimonial bushel, no 
one could be certain that it did not grow in time. But one suspected. A frequent 
complaint in the cahiers, or notebooks of desiderata brought by representatives of 
  Metrication timeline
 77 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 the people to the meeting of the Estates General in 1789, was that
 'the nobles' 
measure waxes larger year by year. These same representatives castigated the 
oppressive confusion of customary measures as barbaric, ridiculous, obscurantist, 
gothic, and revolting, and demanded an end to them, and the establishment of a 
syst
em of unchanging and verifiable weights and measures throughout the 
country, or at least throughout their region. Many urged that the King's measure, 
the royal foot, be made the law of the land.
 Sharpers and crooks whose practices were not sanctioned by an
cient rights and 
wrongs and middlemen acting in analogy to money changers opposed the 
rationalization that menaced their livelihood.
 Talleyrand's concept was for the adoption of a brand new basic standard, 'derived from 
nature' (
pris dans la
 nature
) and th
erefore acceptable to all nations. Talleyrand further 
suggested that the French National Assembly, the English Parliament, and the Royal Society 
of London should undertake preliminary work towards this objective jointly. He wrote:
 Perhaps this scientific c
ollaboration for an important purpose will pave the way 
for political collaboration between the two nations.
 1790 April 13
 The French National Assembly sent proposals to Britain, Spain and the United States to 
propose cooperation on units of measurement. T
he first parliamentary reference to 
metrication in the UK was on 1790 
April 13
. This was when parliamentarian Sir John Riggs 
Miller and the Bishop of Autun, Prince Talleyrand put to the British Parliament and French 
National Assembly respectively, the prop
osition that the two countries should cooperate to 
equalise their weights and measures, by the joint introduction of the metric system. Such 
cooperation was rejected by the Parliament in London.
 Sir John Riggs Miller reported to Parliament on the receipt o
f the letter from Talleyrand, and 
expressed himself in favor of the scheme. He then made a speech to the British House of 
Commons proposing extensive measurement reform. Riggs Miller had been in contact with 
both Talleyrand in France and with Thomas Jeffer
son, who was then the first Secretary of 
State of the United States of America.
 Thomas Jefferson had served as Ambassador to France 
from 1785 to 1789 when he was in regular contact with English and French intellectual 
leaders of the Enlightenment as they f
ormed their ideas about universal measurement.
 At about the same time Talleyrand, one of the foremost members of the French National 
Assembly, introduced the subject and launched a debate that resulted in a directive to the 
French Academy of Sciences to pr
epare a report on the development of a system of 
measurement for France and for the world. The French National Assembly sent delegates to 
Britain, Spain and the United States to propose cooperation in developing a universal system 
of units for measurement.
 1790 April 14
 At a public meeting of the National Academy of Sciences, Mathurin Jacques Brisson 
(1723/1806), one of the Commissioners from the French Academy of Sciences, read out a 
statement on the uniformity of weights and measures for all of France.
 1790 April 17
 Benjamin Franklin died. Twenty thousand people attended his funeral in Philadelphia.
 Talleyrand
, one of the foremost members of the French National Assembly, introduced the 
subject and launched a debate on measurement. His report to the 
French 
National 
Assembly 
included a detailed analysis of the extremely muddled state of French weights and measures. 
Talleyrand
 proposed to the National Assembly a decimal system of stable, unvarying and 
  Metrication timeline
 78 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 simple measurement units. These were to be based on the len
gth of the seconds pendulum at 
45¡ North latitude beating a second.
 At 
Talleyrand
's suggestion, the Frenc
h National Assembly adopted the
 new measuring 
system. 
Louis XVI
 authorised scientific investigations aimed at reform of all French weights 
and measures
 and these investigations led to the development of the 'decimal metric system' 
as the legal measurement system, firstly in France with the passage of several laws mostly in 
the 1790s, and then in the rest of the world. 
Talleyrand
 also suggested that the A
cademy of 
Sciences in Paris collaborate with the Royal Society of London in defining the new measuring 
unit.
 A French politician, 
La Rochefoucault
, had this to say in the National Assembly in support of 
Talleyrand
's proposal:
 We cannot make enough haste ov
er promulgating this decree, which should bring 
about fraternal relations between France and England.
 The French National Assembly and subsequently 
Louis XVI
 approved of 
Talleyrand
's 
proposal. As a result, even though it was in the middle of the French revolution, the National 
Assembly of France requested the French Academy of Sciences to 
deduce an invariable 
standard for all the measures and all the weights
 and to prepare a report on the 
development of a system of measurement for France and for the world. The French National 
Assembly then sent delegates to Britain, Spain and the USA to propose cooperation in 
developing a universal system of units for measure
ment.
 1790 May 8
 Charles
-Fran“ois, marquis de Bonnay (1750
-1825) delivered a report to the French National 
Assembly on the measurement proposition proposed by Talleyrand.
 Talleyrand
's proposal 
was
 for a decimal system of stable, unvarying and simple measur
ement 
units. These were to be based on the length of the seconds pendulum at
 45¡ latitude beating a 
second.
 (8 May, 1790),
 Talleyrand argued that the French National Assembly should charge the French Academy of 
Sciences with:
 Ôthe task of establishing a me
asuring system, which could be acceptable to the whole worldÕ.
 Following Talleyrand's suggestion
 French National Assembly 
favoured the idea of a new 
measuring system and 
Louis XVI authorised scientific investigations aimed at a reform of all 
French weights
 and measures
. These investigations led to the development of the 'decimal metric system'
 by the French 
Academy of Sciences
. There were 
five
 distinct aims
 that were focused on in the discussions of 
the metric system at this time. In order of importance the
y were:
 " uniform national standards of measurement for France,
 " a natural standard of length that was not based on the length of a king's foot (the hated 
pied de roi
), " the use of a decimal scale to divide units into smaller parts or to multiply units into 
larger parts, and
 " the creation of an international system of weights and measures for trade,
 " the emerging requirement for scientists and engineers to have access to better accuracy 
and precision in their measurements.
 To a modern observer, we often think tha
t two of these, decimalisation an
d internationalisation, are most
 important, but politically in 1790, it was the first two that 
  Metrication timeline
 79 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 appealed to the revolutionary spirit of the times.
 The wishes of the scientists (
le philosophes
) were essentially ignored in the
 political process that made the metric system legal in France.
 One of the French politicians, La Rochefoucault, had this to say in the National Assembly in 
support of the proposal:
 We cannot make enough haste over promulgating this decree, which should br
ing 
about fraternal relations between France and England.
 Talleyrand sent Sir John Riggs Miller a copy of the National Assembly's minute of May
 8 referring to the new measurement arrangements. In this minute the French king, Louis XVI, 
was asked to write t
o the British king, George III, inviting joint action to determine a natural 
standard of weight and measure. However, subsequent historians have not been able to find 
such a letter in the Royal Archives at Windsor Castle.
 At the same time as the French Nat
ional Assembly considered the Academy proposal as 
presented by Talleyrand, they also considered several other similar proposals including one 
by the military engineer, Prieur, who expressly opposed using an arc of the meridian as the 
basis for a standard o
f length. Prieur wrote:
 Besides the magnitude of the fundamental operation required, the difficulty of 
verifying it, and the impossibility of doing so daily, it is not easy to decide how 
exact the method might be.
 Thomas Jefferson agreed with Prieur when h
e wrote:
 É the various trials to measure various portions of meridians, have been of such 
various result, as to show there is no dependence on that operation for certainty.
 1790 July 13
 Thomas Jefferson
 reported back to the Congress with a '
Plan for Establ
ishing Uniformity in 
the Coinage, Weights, and Measures of the United States
'. You can find full details of 
Jefferson's plan at: 
http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/jeffplan.asp
 and at 
http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/Gene_Nygaard/t_jeff.htm
  In the first paragraph of his report, 
Jefferson
 provides evidence of the international effort to 
develop a decimal metric system between France, the UK, and the USA. 
Thomas Jefferson
 wrote:
 ... on the 15th of June, came to my hands, from Paris, a printed copy of a 
proposition made by the Bishop of Autu
n, to the National Assembly of France, on 
the subject of weights and measures; and three days afterwards I received, 
through the channel of the public papers, the speech of Sir John Riggs Miller, of 
April 13th, in the British House of Commons, on the same 
subject.
 Although 
Thomas Jefferson
's report carried considerable influence in the Congress of the 
USA as he was the first Secretary of State of the USA for President 
George Washington
, no 
official action was taken and the Congress passed no legislation rel
ating to weights and 
measures as a result of 
Jefferson
's report.
 Jefferson
's report used some of the scientific investigations aimed at reform of the French 
weights and measures but it varied in the detail.
 Jefferson
's proposals also had a remarkable 
simil
arity to the design for a '
universal measure
' outlined by 
John Wilkins
 in 1668. It seems 
likely that Jefferson had access to: '
An Essay Towards a Real Character and a Philosophical 
Language (1668) by
 John Wilkins
'. This conjecture seems more likely when we
 compare 
Wilkins
' plan for length with that of 
Jefferson
. Wilkins' plan
 Jefferson's plan
 Let this Length therefore be called the Standard; let one Jefferson defined a standard length using a 
seconds pendulum then he wrote:
   Metrication timeline
 80 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Tenth of it be called a Foot; one Tenth of a Foot, an Inch; one Tenth of an Inch, a Line. And so upward, Ten Standards should be a Pearch; Ten Pearches, a Furlong; Ten Furlongs, a Mile; Ten Miles, a League, & c. Let the foot be divided into 10 inches; the 
inch into 10 lines; and the line
 into 10 points. 
Let 10 feet make a decad; 10 decads one 
rood; 10 roods a furlong; and 10 furlongs a 
mile.
 And there are many other parallels. In many respects Jefferson's plan might have been taken 
straight from John Wilkins' essay with only slight changes to the names of the various 
components of the plan and a few minor differences. For example Jefferson sug
gested a 
pendulum that had a rod instead of a string. Details of Wilkins' plan can be found at: 
http://www.metricationmatters.com/docs/CommentaryOnWilkinsOfMeasure.pdf
 an
d a 
Wikipedia article on Jefferson's decimal plan can be found at: 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plan_for_Establishing_Uni
formity_in_the_Coinage,_Weights
,_and_Measures_of_the_United_States
  Note: I have been unable to definitely confirm that 
Jefferson
 had access to 
Wilkins
' Essay. 
Jefferson
 was a very keen book collector and I, and several very helpful librarians, have 
search
ed many catalogs of his extensive collections. I suspect that he either owned or had 
access to 
Wilkins
' Essay, and that possibly his copy of 
Wilkins
' book was lost in the Library of 
Congress fire of 1851, (
http://www.loc.gov/exhibits/jefferson/jefflib.html
 ) Jefferson recommended a two
-part decimal plan to Congress.
 Jefferson
 recommended a two
-part decimal plan to Congress. The first part of 
Jefferson
's 
plan proposed the adoption of a universa
l length based on the seconds pendulum, measured 
at 45 degrees North latitude at sea level and the changing of existing old English units to this 
new universal measure.
 The second part of 
Jefferson
's plan proposed the use of a decimal system as a basis for
 dividing and multiplying the seconds pendulum 
length 
unit to reduce:
 Every branch to the same decimal ratio, thus bringing the calculations of the 
principal affairs of life within the arithmetic of every man who can multiply and 
divide plain numbers.
 Thom
as Jefferson's plan might have been successful in the USA as his system actually 
resembled the metric system in many ways. However, it had a fundamental problem that had 
nothing to do with the metrology or the mathematics of his proposal; the problem was w
ith 
the language he chose for his new system. Jefferson presented a decimal system developed 
around a new '
foot
' based on a pendulum that swung from one end of its arc to the other in a 
second
 (about 250
 millimetres long)
. Jefferson's system had many names
 for different units 
and all of them had been used 
as measuring words in the past. Jefferson did not seem to 
realise that 
as 
most people do not compr
ehend the theory of measurement
, they will cling 
fiercely to their use of old measuring words without under
standing what they exactly mean. 
It is a pity that Jefferson had not acquired the idea of using prefixes to create names for sub
-multiples and multiples of his units or the history of measurement in the USA might have 
been profoundly different.
 Here are so
me samples of the basic units in Jefferson's new measuring system:
 Length
 Jefferson divided his pendulum
-based new foot into 10 new inches. Each new inch was to be 
divided into 10 new lines, and each line into 10 new points. For longer lengths, 10 new feet
 were to be called a decade, 100 new feet was a new rood, 1000 new feet a new furlong, and 
there were 10 000 new feet in a new mile.
   Metrication timeline
 81 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 At about 250
 millimetres, Jefferson's new foot was slightly shorter than the old foot (about 
300
 millimetres) that was comm
only used in the USA at that time, and that a mile of 10
 000 new feet made a mile almost twice as long as an old mile.
 Capacity and volume
 Jefferson described a basic volume unit that he called a new bushel and its size could be 
traced back to the new foot
 as the new bushel was defined as a new cubic foot.
 Jefferson's system resembled the developing metric system, in which a litre of water weighs 
1000 grams in that a cubic new foot, that Jefferson called a bushel, would have a capacity of 
about 15.6 litres 
and would hold about 15.6 litres of water. 
This meant that a thousandth part 
of the new bushel would have a volume of about 15.6 millilitres and it would hold about 15.6 
grams of water. This is about half the size of the old ounce and the old fluid ounce t
hat were 
used in the USA. The new bushel was close to 75
 % of the size of the bushel then in use in the 
USA.
 Mass (then called weight)
 Jefferson defined the basic 'weight' as a new ounce that was one thousandth part of a new 
bushel (1 cubic new foot).
 This
 meant that t
he basic weight unit was the ounce, defined so 
that a bushel
 of water weighed 1000 ounces
. As t
he metric system developed as a legal entity in France
 Ñ later
 during the 1790's 
Ñ I have 
no doubt that the French '
philosophes
' borrowed 
extensively from Jefferson's ideas as they 
developed their proposals for the development of the metric system as the legal measurement 
system for France.
 Congress gave the Jefferson 
plan serious consideration
 but 
took no action
 to implement any 
of Jefferso
n's suggestions
. Without a coherent measurement policy, the USA simply adopted 
bits and pieces from various
 version
s of English weights and measures. These
 included:
 " distance measurements identical to those of the 1592 English Act of Parliament,
 " mass measu
res based on English avoirdupois 
weight measurements
 of 1303
, " measurement
s for dry volumes based on the 1496 English '
Winchester
' bushel
, and
 " measurement
s for liquid volumes based on the 
English 
Queen Anne wine gallon of 
1707.
 It is remarkable that Congres
s never established this traditional 
method
, or any other 
method
, as the mandatory system of weights and measures for the United States.
 During the nineteenth century
 expanding trade 
needed
 a consistent set of 
international 
measurement
 standards. This need
 was gradually filled by the
 use of the metric system
, which quickly
 spread through
out
 continental Europe. 
Citizens of the USA, during the 19th 
and 20th centuries, only became aware of the metric system if
 they imported 
or exported 
goods 
to or from Europe
. George Washington and Thomas Jefferson combined forces politically, to propose the use of 
decimal currency for the USA. Decimal currency became reality in the USA with the 
establishment of the Federal Mint in 1792.
 1790 August 12
 A deputation from the 
French Academy of Sciences is made to the French National Assembly 
with the view to placing the services of the Academy of Sciences at the disposal of the 
National Assembly.
 During the next eight days, the French National Assembly issued instructions that 
allowed 
municipal authorities to fix the rates for assessing weights and measurements in public 
squares and markets.
   Metrication timeline
 82 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1790 August 16
 The French National Assembly passed laws that entrusted municipal authorities with the 
verification of weights and measures.
 1790 August 22
 The French King 
Louis XVI
 authorized scientific investigations aimed at a reform of French 
weights and measures. 
Talleyrand
's proposal, having been referred to the Committee on 
Agriculture and Commerce, was recommended to the king, who 
sanctioned this action. This 
was the French decree that led to the further development of the metric system.
 Talleyrand's proposal to the French National Assembly was to standardize the length of the 
seconds pendulum at 45¡ latitude. His proposal, having b
een referred to the Committee on 
Agriculture and Commerce, was recommended to the king, who sanctioned action.
 The French Academy of Sciences was made responsible, and appointed a committee that 
consisted of: 
Jean Charles de Borda
 (1733
-1799), 
Joseph
-Louis
 Comte de Lagrange
 (1736
-1813), 
Pierre
-Simon Laplace
 (1749
-1827), 
Gaspard Monge
 (1746 
-1818), and 
Marie Jean 
Antoine Nicholas Caritat, the Marquis de Condorcet
 (1743
-1794). Their first report, in 
October, recommended the decimal division of money, weights,
 and measures. However, it 
should not be inferred that this was a smooth or an easy process. 
Stephen Hawking
 in his 
book, 
God created the integers
, describes 
Laplace
's contribution to the metric system as 
follows:
 Engrossed as he was in science, Laplace ha
d little time for the tumult of politics in 
the late 1780s and early 1790s. He took no part in the affairs of the French 
Revolution during its most radical phase in the early 1790s, except to participate in 
the committee that devised the metric system, par
t of a systematic attempt to 
overthrow the shackles of the Old Regime. One camp argued that the fundamental 
unit of length should be defined in terms of the earth's equatorial circumference. 
Laplace argued, instead, that given the role of the right angle i
n geometry, the 
fundamental unit of length should be based on the length of the quadrant from the 
North Pole to the equator.
 Thanks to Laplace's successful argument, the meter was defined as 1/10
 000 000th of the distance from the pole to the equator. By t
he end of 1793 the political 
atmosphere in Paris became too intemperate for Laplace. Along with many other 
leading scientists, including Lavoisier and Coulomb, Laplace was purged from the 
committee devising the metric system. The radical republicans loudly
 announced 
that such responsibilities could only be entrusted to men known for 'their 
Republican virtues and hatred of kings'.
 Literally fearing for his neck, Laplace and his family fled from Paris to the country 
town of Melun, thirty miles (50 kilometres)
 away. In retrospect, Laplace had 
correctly judged the probabilities of the possible outcomes. His friend and 
colleague, the chemist Antoine Lavoisier, chose to remain in Paris, where he lost his 
head to the guillotine in the spring of 1794.
 The National A
ssembly decreed that all measures in use throughout the provinces of France 
should be sent to the Academy of Sciences who would then issue new standard measures to 
all the parishes of France. The idea was that by doing this the old measures could be 
dispen
sed with altogether. However, it seems that the National Assembly had little idea of the 
complexity and magnitude of this task as they considered that the new standards could be 
adopted and copies of it could be distributed, replacing all of the old measur
es with the new, 
within six months.
   Metrication timeline
 83 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1790 October 27
 The National Assembly accepted Talleyrand's proposal and sent it and a question about the 
most useful division of weights, measures, and monies to the French Academy of Science. 
The Academy referred both 
matters to a committee composed of Borda, Lagrange, Lavoisier, 
Tillet, and Condorcet. The committee reported on 27 October 1790 that everything should be 
decimal.
 The French Academy of Science 
then 
issued a report that recommended the decimal division 
of F
rench money along similar lines to those used in the USA and:
 É that the length of a meridian from the North Pole to the Equator be determined, 
that 1/10 000 000th of this distance be termed the metre and form the basis of a 
new decimal linear system, and,
 further, that a new unit of weight should be 
derived from the weight of a cubic metre of water.
 The committee specifically rejected the seconds' pendulum because it involved time as a non
-linear element. This report also recommended that the new system of
 weights and measures 
should be decimal and it included a list of prefixes for decimal multiples and sub
-multiples. 
This system became the 
decimal metric system
 that later became the International System of 
Units (SI) that we now use in every nation in the
 world.
 At this point all of the components were in place for the decimal metric system that later 
became the International System of Units (SI) that we now use in every nation in the world.
 Later developments included more units, more prefixes, better def
initions, and the 
development of a property called 
coherence
 between all units. The latest version of the 
modern metric system, approved in 1960, is called the 
Syst‘me International d'Unit” 
(SI)
 in French or the 
International System of Units (SI)
 in Englis
h. Note that the 
abbreviation
 SI is the same for both French or for English.
 1790 November 11
 Talleyrand
 again urged that the preparation of a new system of weights and measures should 
be a collaborative venture, by inviting the participation of the English Parliament and the 
Royal Society of London. 
Talleyrand
 also made efforts to establish contacts with ot
her 
countries, including negotiations with 
Thomas Jefferson
 concerning the definition of the 
metre. 
Jefferson
 initially favored using a pendulum at the latitude of 38¡N as this was close to 
the centre of the USA, but eventually he accepted the 45¡N, as he 
felt that this was better 
suited to an international future for the decimal metric system.
 The Acad”mie des Sciences Fran“aise appointed a scientific commission to reconsider the 
whole question of measurement. They were: 
Lagrange, Laplace, Borda, Monge
, an
d Condorcet
. In their report to the Academy, the scientific commission reconfirmed that the 
new unit of length be one ten
-millionth of the distance at sea level from the pole to the 
equator. One of the reasons that they chose the quadrant was because one o
f the commission 
members, 
Jean-Charles De Borda
, had constructed extremely precise graduated circles for 
measuring angles 
Ñ exactly the kind required for this sort of work. 
Borda
's circles were 
graduated in units called 'grads' with 100 centesimal grad div
isions to a quadrant. 
Borda
 sneered at the Babylonian degrees used by other
s as too old
-fashioned (in 1790
) to be used 
for the development of the modern 
decimal metric system
. The 
decimal metric system
 that was developed by the Commission appointed by the French 
Academy of Sciences was both scientific and simple. Scientifically, the unit of length was to 
be based on a quadrant of the Earth.
 The Commissioners assigned the name, metre, to the unit of leng
th that was one ten
-millionth of the distance from the North Pole to the equator along the meridian running near 
Dunkerque in France and Barcelona in Spain. The units for volume and mass were then 
  Metrication timeline
 84 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 derived from the unit of length relating the basic units of
 the system to each other and to 
nature. For example, the first metric unit of mass, the gram, was defined as the mass of a 
cube that was 0.01 metre on each side filled with water at its temperature of maximum 
density. Later, the cubic decimetre 
Ñ a cube 0
.1 metre on each side 
Ñ was chosen as the unit 
for volume or capacity and this was given the name, litre.
 Multiplying or dividing the base units by 10s, 100s, and 1000s, were used to form larger and 
smaller multiples of each unit. The use of decimal number
s simplified the use of the metric 
system for users of the system, by eliminating calculations such as dividing by 16 (to convert 
ounces to pounds) or by 12 (to convert inches to feet). The metric system was designed as 
a 'decimal' 
or 'base
-10' 
system.
 Tal
leyrand urged that the preparation of a new system of weights and measures should be a 
collaborative venture, with the French inviting the participation of the English Parliament 
and the Royal Society of London. Talleyrand also made efforts to establish co
ntacts with 
other countries. These included negotiations with Thomas Jefferson concerning the 
definition of the metre.
 Jefferson initially favored using a pendulum at the latitude of 38¡N as this was close to the 
centre of the territory of the United State
s of America, but eventually he accepted the 45¡N, 
proposed by the French National Assembly as he felt that this was better suited to an 
international destiny for the metric system.
 1790 December 8
 The French National Assembly issued a decree limiting the 
application of the law of 1790 
May 8 to only the principle measures in each district, with a requirement that a report be 
filed for all other measures.
 1791 The Pavillon de Breteuil was occupied by a detachment of the French army and it was left in a 
very 
poor condition. A contemporary report stated,
 É they have entirely destroyed the wood panelling and partly burnt the floor 
boards for heating and have removed the locks so that there are substantial 
repairs to be made É
 1791 March 19
 Condorcet stated that 
the metric system was:
 For all time, for all people.
 Jean-Antoine Nicolas de Caritat, Marquis de Condorcet who is usually known simply as 
Condorcet was t
he secretary o
f this scientific commission to develop a decimal metric system 
of weights and measures
. Condorcet was a champion of modernity whose vision of progress 
reflected commitment to the values of reason, freedom, and equality. Condorcet
's proposals 
for social and political reform were characterized by pragmatism and by the conviction that 
only cauti
ous and scientific management of change would ensure lasting benefits. 
 Condorcet 
was also a close friend of Thomas Jefferson, who had been the Ambassador from the USA 
from 1784 to 1789.
 A committee consisting of Borda, Lagrange, Laplace, Monge, and Condor
cet reported that, 
given a choice between a 
seconds pendulum
 and another meridian measurement, they 
preferred the meridian. The committee proposed:
 " to redo the arc from Dunkirk to Perpignan and to extend it to Barcelona,
 " to obtain latitudes astronomically,
   Metrication timeline
 85 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 " to lay out new baselines,
 " to observe the pendulum,
 " to determine the weight of an exactly measured volume of distilled water at the 
temperature of melting ice, and
 " to compare all the old units in use in France with the new standards.
 Essentially, except fo
r the last point, this committee was putting in place the proposal that 
Bishop John Wilkins had made for a 
'universal 
measure' in 1668. They were sufficiently 
confident of their methods that they did not seek international cooperation before they 
wrote:
 É we have excluded from our advice every arbitrary determination, we have used 
only the common property of all nations. É In a word, if the memory of all our 
work disappeared and only the results remained, they would disclose nothing to 
show what nation conc
eived the idea and carried it through.
 1791 March 26
 The French Academy of Science did not, immediately, accept the recommendations of its 
committee. Some of them objected that the arc had received enough attention in previous 
studies. Some argued simply that the pendulum was easier to use and to understand.
 Finally, 
however, the Academy endorsed the committee's recommendations and forwarded them to 
the French National Assembly without alteration. The Academy did not let go of the 
seconds 
pendulum
 easily. They decided to determine the length of a seconds pend
ulum at the Paris 
Observatory, to serve as a secondary reference, even though the primary reference was to be 
one ten
-millionth of the distance from pole to equator.
 The Acad”mie des Sciences Fran“aise adopted the length committee
's recommendations and 
a s
econd report by the Acad”mie recommended that the standard of length should be:
 one ten
-millionth of the meridian quadrant.
 One of the reasons 
they gave 
for this choice was that 
the metre
 would 
materialise the idea of
: É a 
unit which in its determination w
as neither arbitrary nor related to any 
particular nat
ion on the globe
. The Acad”mie des Sciences committee also recommended a new decimal system of 
measurement based on the metre and the kilogram. Discarding the traditional degrees and 
minutes of angle me
asurement emphasized the decimal nature of the new system.
 The length of the metre was to be based on the measurement of a meridian arc extending 
from Dunkerque to Barcelona. This was an extension of the line measured by Lacaille and 
Cassini in 1739.
 Ideal
ly, of course it would have been better to survey the whole quadrant between the North 
Pole and the equator but no one had ever been to the North Pole. The scientific commission 
members reckoned that if they could measure a significant piece of a meridian,
 the rest could 
be calculated. Both ends of the line to be measured had to be at sea level, and near the middle 
of the pole
-to-equator quadrant. Fortunately for them, the only one such meridian on Earth 
is about a tenth of the distance from the pole to the
 equator and it runs from Barcelona to 
Dunkerque
, so most of the distance lies conveniently inside France (a fact that did not escape 
the notice of observers such as Thomas Jefferson).
 The committee rejected the pendulum, on principle, because it involved 
the non
-linear time 
and because it was insufficiently precise.
 To stress that this was to be a 
decimal m”trique  
syst‘me
 th
e committee recommended
 dividing the quadrant decimally into grads of 
1 hundredth of a quadrant. They specifically recommended 
discar
ding the degrees
, minutes
, and seconds 
of 
Babylonian angle
 measurement.
   Metrication timeline
 86 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 The secretary of this committee, Condorcet, wrote in this report:
 The Academy has done its best to exclude all arbitrary considerations 
Ñ indeed, all 
that might have aroused the suspic
ion of its having advanced the particular 
interests of France; in a word, it sought to prepare such a plan that, were its 
principles alone to come down to posterity, no one could guess the country of its 
origin.
 The French National Assembly endorsed the Ac
ademy of Sciences report and directed that 
the necessary measurements of the Earth
's meridian be made as soon as possible. In a single 
day of debate, the French National Assembly enacted the necessary legislation on 1791 March 
26.
 Although the Acad”mie des
 Sciences finally chose that a metre would be exactly a 
1/10
 000 000 of the distance between the North Pole and the equator so that this distance 
would be exactly 10
 000 000 metres, an error was made in its measurement. The error arose 
because the wrong va
lue was assumed for the earth
's flattening used in correcting for 
oblateness. We now know that the quadrant of the earth is 10
 000 957 metres instead of 
exactly 10
 000 000 metres as it was originally planned.
 At this time the French unit of volume was call
ed the pinte and this was later renamed the 
litre; it was defined as the volume of a cube having a side equal to one
-tenth of a metre. The 
unit of mass was called the grave and this was later renamed the kilogramme; it was defined 
as the mass of one litre 
of distilled water at the temperature of melting ice. The centigrade 
scale for temperature was also adopted with its fixed points at 0
 ¡C and 100
 ¡C representing 
the freezing and boiling points of water; this is now called the Celsius temperature scale.
 When the French National Assembly accepted the report of the Acad”mie des Sciences 
adopting a length equal to a quadrant of the meridian as the base of the new system of 
measures they said:
 The only hope of extending the standardization of measures to foreig
n nations and 
persuading them to accept it lies in selecting a unit that is in no way arbitrary, nor 
particularly suited to the circumstances of any one nation.
 The metric system as it was first proposed by John Wilkins in England, and developed in 
France 
(with help from the USA) in the 1790s, was designed as a standard universal system 
that would be easy for everyone in the world to understand and to use.
 In fact, when Talleyrand presented the plan for a system of decimal metric units to the 
French Nationa
l Assembly he described it as:
 É an enterprise whose result should belong some day to the whole world
. The (gloriously named) French mathematician and philosopher, Marie Jean Antoine Nicolas 
de Caritat, Le Marquis de Condorcet (1743/1794) wrote an article called 
'Le M‘tre: du 
monde
' (The metre: of the world) where he described the metric system simply as:
 For all time, for all people.
 The international metric system conference of 1799 decided that a medal should be struck to 
honor the metric system and bearing the words of Condorcet:
 A TOUS LES TEMPS, A TOUS LES PEUPLES
 It should be noted that, from a purely
 metrological point of view, using a quadrant of the 
earth as a standard makes little sense. To measure this distance is so difficult that any two 
surveys of such a long distance are bound to differ by much more than the amount of 
precision required of the
 unit.
 The amazing thing about this is how two 18th century surveyors, Delambre and M”chain, 
could have come so close
 to the true measurement in such trying circumstances
. It took 
  Metrication timeline
 87 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Delambre and M”chain six years to complete the measurement of the distance f
rom 
Dunquerque to Barcelona using triangulation techniques.
 The King signed the authorisation for Delambre and M”chain when they set out in June 1792 
to find suitable triangulation points near Paris then, in September, the king was arrested, and 
so was 
Delambre. Released after getting new official papers, Delambre and M”chain were 
again threatened with arrest shortly afterwards and accused of spying, since their 
instruments were thought to be suspicious (white sheets for long distance visibility and, as 
everybody knew, white was a royalist color).
 They obtained new official papers from the 
National Assembly and then continued their mission, only to find that the Committee of 
Public Safety decreed that '
government officials
 (must) 
delegate their powers and
 functions 
solely to men known to be trustworthy for their republican virtues and their abhorrence of 
kings
' and removed Delambre and M”chain from their 
measurement 
task.
 Eighteen months later they were reinstated and carried out their work the for the nex
t two 
years, completing it finally in April 1798. They published the results in three volumes 
between 1806 and 1810 and presented the first volume to Napoleon, who remarked:
 Conquests will come and go but this work will endure.
 These days the length of the
 Earth's quadrant can be measured fairly quickly and easily using 
satellite technology. Satellite measurements show that the metre is actually about 0.000
 2 shorter than a metre would be based on one ten
-millionth of the earth's quadrant (999.999
 8 mm inst
ead of 1000
 mm).
 1790 May 8
 The National Assembly of France held detailed discussion on the proposal submitted by 
Talleyrand. They approved of the proposal with a decree that was later ratified (see 1790
 August 22) i
n a form that was,
 in almost every respe
ct 
the same as
 Talleyrand's proposition.
 The National Assembly recognised that the metric system was simple and elegant with 
decimal multiples and sub
-multiples based Greek prefixes (deca
-, hecto
-, kilo
-) for multiples 
and Latin (deci
-, centi
-, milli
-) for
 fractions. They were also impressed with the relationship 
between length, volume, and mass as 1 gram (mass) was defined as one cubic centimetre 
(volume) of water.
 Some maintain that this was the day that the metric system was '
born
' with the statement:
 Libert”! Egalit”! M”triqu”!
 The National Assembly of France made this decision to go ahead with the metric system after 
the 
revolutionary 
storming of the Bastille (1789 July 14) but before the declaration of 
the 
French R
epublic (1792 September 22) and the 
execution of King Louis XVI
 (1793 January 
21).
 Prior to this decision, u
nder the 
monarchy and the 
ancien r”gime
, French
 people had 
used
 inch
es (pouce ~27
 mm), fee
t (pied ~325
 mm),
 and fathom
s (toise
 ~1950
 mm). The idea for the
 first metre was based on 
a pe
ndulum with a0
 one
-way swing (called a 
half
-period
) of one second
; a pendulum that swings back and forth in one second is about 
250 mm in length. Later, on a recommendation from
 the French Academy of Sciences, the 
assembly rede
fined the metre in 1793 as 1/
10 000 000 of the distance from the Equator to 
the North Pole.
 1791 June 19
 A committee of 12 mathematicians, geodesists, and physicists met with Louis XVI, who gave 
his formal approval for the introduction of the new metric system. The next day, the king 
attempted to escape from France, was arrested, returned to Paris, and was imprisoned.
   Metrication timeline
 88 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1792 From his prison cell, Louis XVI issued the proclamation that directed two astronomers and 
engineers, Jean
-Baptiste Delambre and Pierre Fran“ois
-Andr” M”chain, to per
form the 
operations necessary to determine the length of the metre. Delambre and M”chain set to 
work to precisely measure the distance, on the meridian, from Barcelona in Spain, to 
Dunkerque in northern France. In part the line from Barcelona to Dunkerque 
was 
deliberately chose to be multinational to make people aware that the French scientists were 
not simply being parochial.
 Delambre and M”chain emphasised the decimal aspect of the metric system by discarding 
the traditional degrees and minutes of angular
 measurement and instead dividing the 
quadrant into 100 grads that were then divided into 1000 arc
-minutes that were in turn 
divided into 1000 arc
-seconds.
 The survey proved extremely difficult as wars, both civil and foreign, hampered the 
operation. To gi
ve a flavor of these difficulties, here is an extract from a letter that M”chain 
wrote to Delambre about working in the mountains:
 You could not have an idea of the difficulty we have to procure wood and workmen 
for the transportation and establishment of 
signals on the summits of the 
mountains. We are obliged to go on foot almost everywhere. Moreover, it is a 
physical impossibility to make certain stations such as Burgarach, which we could 
not reach except by hanging on to branches and underbrush and by cl
imbing 
rocks. Night and day we are exposed to storms, having for a bed only a little straw, 
and for shelter a simple tent. We are often interrupted and tormented by the 
clouds, which envelop one of the stations and hang over it for entire days. The 
south w
ind is terrible in these regions; nothing resists its violence. It is necessary to 
strike the tents and descend on hands and knees if one does not wish to be carried 
away as a feather.
 Delambre and his crew also experienced great difficulties. At one point
, they were accused of 
plotting to restore the monarchy because they used white flags to make their survey markers 
easily visible but 
Ñ as everyone then knew 
Ñ white was the color of the deposed royal family.
 The task of Delambre and M”chain was to have be
en completed in a few months but it took 
six years and five months.
 Interestingly, the survey method used by Delambre and M”chain was based on a process 
called triangulation where they had to very accurately measure angles in each of the triangles. 
They di
d this using decimal division of the quadrant. The quadrant was divided into 100 
grads 
(that were sometimes called grades or
 gons
) and these were further divided into 100 
decimal minutes, each of 100 decimal seconds. This gave them a theoretical precision 
of one 
millionth of a quadrant.
 However, both Delambre and M”chain were fully aware that measuring the Earth is a very 
complex operation. They knew that the Earth is not a perfect sphere or ball. Isaac Newton 
had already pointed out that the Earth bulges n
ear the Equator and it is flattened near the 
poles. Mountains and valleys make the actual shape even more uneven.
 Every single measurement made by Delambre and M”chain had to be adjusted to assume 
that the lengths were measured at sea level. Delambre and M
”chain, and the other members 
of t
he French Academy of Science were
 aware 
that 
the distance between the North Pole and 
the Equator depend
ed on 
which
 meridian 
you 
used to measure 
it. For example, 
the distance 
from the North Pole to the Equator measured through 
London
 is 
not the same as the distance 
measured through their chosen cities of Dunkerque and Barcelona.
 Delambre and M”chain knew that it was not 
possible to 
measure an accurate distance from
 the North Pole to the Equator to arrive
 at a precise figure for the metre
. Thir goal was 
to find 
the best approximation possible at the time. Obviously, 
they knew that they could not 
  Metrication timeline
 89 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 measure all the way from the Equator to the North Pole, they could only 
measure the 
distance from Dunkerque to Barcelona as accurately as they could to give them an indication 
of the full distance 
Ñ then guess the rest 
Ñ as the distance from Dunkerque to Barcelona is 
only about 11 % of the actual distance from the North Pole t
o the Equator.
 In hindsight, Delambre and M”chain did a magnificent job. They knew that the metre that 
they would define would not be exactly 1/40 000 000 of the EarthÕs circumference as the 
other three quarters of this circumference 
Ñ that they couldn't m
easure or even estimate 
Ñ might have different lengths. This meant that the metre might not be exactly equal to 
1/10
 000 000 of the distance 
from the North Pole to the 
Equator
. Given these difficulties, all they had to work with were Borda's highly accurat
e instrument, 
the 'Borda Duplicating Circle', for measuring the angles at each angle in a triangle and then 
used these angles to determine lengths by calculation. T
he 
two 
scientists
, Delambre and 
M”chain
, who were
 meas
uring the E
arth to determine the lengt
h of the metre were 
also 
aware 
that there is the possibility of error in every measurement we make and their goal was 
to minimise these errors. 
Working in decimals of right angles divided into 100 grads (rather 
than having to use the old Babylonian degrees
, minutes, and seconds) markedly reduced the 
possibility for error
. However, since the 1790s
, astronomers and sailors have 
continued
 to use the older non
-decimal Babylonian measures of angles with 360 degrees in a circle, 60 minutes of arc (also 
called arc
minutes) in a degree, and 60 seconds of arc (also called arcseconds) in a minute. 
Scientists other than astronomers have decided not to use decimal divisions of a quadrant or 
the older Babylonian methods; instead they have developed several other methods: 
the 
radian as the ratio between an arc of a circle and its radius, decimal degrees such as 12.345 
degrees, and angular mils are still in use in various sciences
 and technologies
. King Louis XVI also issued orders for Baron 
Gaspard Clair Fran“ois Marie
-Rich
e de Prony 
(1755/1839) to begin the task of calculating 
new mathematical tables for use with the metric 
system.
 Prony calculated the trigonometrical tables by organizing his (human) 
'computers
' in three 
levels. Skilled mathematicians laid down the rules fo
r the calculations; second level 
mathematicians calculated the functions for every 10th value; and level three mathematicians 
carried out the interpolations for the intermediate values using finite differences 
Ð where 
they were only required to add and sub
tract.
 In the USA, Thomas Jefferson wrote that he was not enamored of the international metric 
system as it was formulated, primarily because the meridian had been substituted for the 
pendulum as the standard. A USA Senate committee declined an invitation 
from France to 
participate in developing an international metric system.
 The congress of the USA established the United States Mint
 to produce new coins and notes
. By then Jefferson
's decimal system had been already well established in the thirteen states 
by 
the daily use of Benjamin Franklin
's 'Fugio Cent
'. The world
's first decimal currency, with one 
dollar consisting of 100 cents, was introduced smoothly and successfully to the USA.
 1792 September 22
 The French Republic was established when 
Year 1 of the
 First Republic was proclaimed
 on 
the day of the autumnal equinox.
 1793 The French Constitution was promulgated with the Marquis de Condorcet as the principle 
author. Condorcet was an especially close friend of Thomas Jefferson from the USA. Their 
friendsh
ip is logical when you consider that Thomas Jefferson had played a leading role in 
  Metrication timeline
 90 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 forming the ideas behind the Constitution of the USA in 1787. The Library of Congress web 
site (
http://www.l
oc.gov/exhibits/jefferson/jefffed.html
 ) puts it this way:
 Although Thomas Jefferson was in France serving as United States minister when 
the Federal Constitution was written in 1787, he was able to influence the 
development of the federal government throu
gh his correspondence. Later his 
actions as the first secretary of state, vice president, leader of the first political 
opposition party, and third president of the United States were crucial in shaping 
the look of the nation
's capital and defining the pow
ers of the Constitution and the 
nature of the emerging republic.
 For example, these words of the preamble are attributed to Thomas Jefferson:
 We hold these truths to be self
-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are 
endowed by their Creator wi
th certain unalienable Rights, that among these are 
Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.
 It also seems highly likely that Condorcet and Jefferson would have discussed their common 
ideas for the system of 
universal measure
 that eventually became SI, 
the modern metric 
system.
 France and England went to war.
 The New York Stock Exchange opened this year, but they decided not to use this new
-fangled 
decimal currency. Instead they chose to use dollars of the USA but to divide them into 
'pieces
-of-eight
'; t
hat is into halves, quarters, and eighths. The NYSE did not change to 
trading using decimal currency until 2001 
Ñ 208 years later.
 1793 January 21
 Louis XVI was executed.
 1793 August 1
 The metre had its legal origin when the Republican Government of France
 adopted a report 
from the Acad”mie Fran“aise and decreed the unit of length was to be called the 
'metre
' and 
it was to be 1/10
 000 000 (10
-7) of the earth
's quadrant.
 Despite their best efforts, the scientists at the time made an error in their calculatio
ns. The 
assumed value of the earth
's flattening used in correcting for oblateness was the main error. 
The quadrant of the earth is nearer to 10
 002 kilometres instead of exactly 10
 000 kilometres 
as originally planned (an error of 0.02
 %) so the metre was 
a little short at 999.8 millimetres 
rather than 1000 millimetres exactly. (For details of the history of measuring the Earth 
circumference see 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spherical_Earth
 ) In the 
meantime, while they waited for the meridian to be measured, the French government 
passed laws approving a provisional measuring system and a provisional metre was 
constructed from geodetic data already available. A brass standard of the provisional metre 
was made and it is still preserved in the Conservatoire des Arts et M”tiers at Paris.
 The National Convention also adopted the preliminary definitions and terms with the 
'methodical
' nomenclature using prefixes for fractions and multiples of the measuring unit 
names rather than the 
'common
' method that involved separate names for each size of unit.
 1793 August 8
 The National Convention abolished the Academy of Sciences as un
-republica
n. However, the 
Committee of Public Safety still wanted to rid France of the old feudal measures, and they 
needed the help of the members of the Academy to do this, so the Committee of Public Safety 
persuaded the National Convention to create a new, indepe
ndent temporary commission 
(Commission temporaire des poids et mesures r”publicaines) with the same members. Later, 
  Metrication timeline
 91 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 when Lavoisier was arrested in November and the commission requested his release, the 
Committee of Public Safety responded by kicking five m
ore members off the commission, 
including Delambre.
 1793 December 11
 In a report, 
'Le Syst‘me M”trique D”cimal
', published by the Minist‘re du Commerce et 
Industrie in Paris in 1901. They wrote:
 Standard metres and graves 
(kilograms)
, made by the temporary Commission, 
were very probably distributed, at least in part, in several foreign countries. In the 
papers of the Committee of Public Safety, kept in the National Archives, there is a 
mention under the date of 21 frimaire year I (11 
December 1793), that a copper 
metre and a copper grave both with gradations were sent to the USA through an 
agency for a 
'Correspondent of the Natural History Museum 
'Joseph Dombey
'.' Joseph Dombey, a French citizen and botanist, accepted the task of trans
porting some of the 
provisional metric standards to the USA. As a special diplomatic messenger to the USA his 
task was to deliver models of the new measures to Philadelphia, the first capital of the USA. 
Unfortunately, a hurricane forced his ship south to 
Guadeloupe and Dombey was imprisoned 
at Montserrat where he died. The French recovered some of his papers and metric models 
some years later but an opportunity to be relevant to the USA was lost.
 1794 Paolo Ricchini de Voghera sent a letter from Italy to C
hampagny, the Minister for the 
Internal Affairs of the French Empire, extolling the virtues of the metric system and 
bemoaning the variety of measures used in Italy at that time. He wrote:
 This Gothic diversity was the ineluctable outcome of the partition 
and fragmentation of Italy into small seigneuries, as well as a direct consequence of the 
feudal law.
 He went on to demand tough measures anticipating strong resistance from conservatives and 
traditionalists.
 The execution of Robespierre ended of the reign
 of terror in France.
 1794 March 29
 Condorcet suspected that he was being watched by his enemies and although he fled from 
Paris he was arrested and imprisoned. Two days later he was found dead in his prison cell 
and it is not known whether he died from na
tural causes, he was murdered, or he took his 
own life.
 More information can be found at: 
http://www
-groups.dcs.st
-and.ac.uk/~history/HistTopics/Measurement.html
#s25
 where 
H B Acton summarised 
Condorcet's
 life as follows:
 Wholly a man of the Enlightenment, an advocate of economic freedom, religious 
toleration, legal and educational reform, and the abolition of slavery, Condorcet 
sought to extend the empire of reas
on to social affairs. Rather than elucidate 
human behaviour, as had been done thus far, by recourse to either the moral or 
physical sciences, he sought to explain it by a merger of the two sciences that 
eventually became transmuted into the discipline of s
ociology.
 However, for many students of the metric system and its development, the secretary of the 
scientific commission that developed the first legal metric system, 
Jean-Antoine Nicolas de 
Caritat, Marquis de Condorcet
 (who as stated earlier is usually 
known simply as 
Condorcet) 
will be best remembered for describing the metric system as:
   Metrication timeline
 92 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 For all time, for all people
 1795 For years after the decision by the Borda committee to base the length of the metre on a 
meridian that went from Dunquerque to 
Barcelona, there was criticism of the decision that it 
was too French centric because this meridian passed suspiciously close to Paris.
 The French scientists argued that '
There is nothing here that can give the slightest pretext 
for the reproach that we wi
shed to assert any sort of dominance
.' Specifically they argued:
 " the section should extend equal distances on either side of the 45th parallel because there 
the seconds pendulum and the size of a degree have their mean values;
 " it is a coincidence that the 
45th parallel runs through France;
 " only there do meridians have arcs bisected at 45¡ that terminate at either end at sea level; 
and
 " that only there are there meridians that are short enough to measure.
 Pierre
-Simon, marquis de Laplace (1749
-1827) put it th
is way in a lecture in 1795:
 É had savants from all countries come together to fix the universal measure, they 
would not have made a different choice.
 However, not everyone in the rest of the world agreed with them. It was hard for people in 
places other 
than Paris to concede that a section of the meridian through Paris and lying 
almost entirely within France was a unit dictated by nature! As an example, Thomas 
Jefferson put his position like this:
 The element of measure adopted by the National Assembly ex
cludes, ipso facto, 
every nation on earth from a communion of measurement with them; for they 
acknowledge themselves, that a due portion for admeasurement for a meridian 
crossing the forty
-fifth degree of latitude, and terminating at both ends at the same 
level, can be found in no other country on earth but theirs.
 The UK passed the Weights and Measures Act 1795
 1795 April 7
 The R
epublic of France legally adopted
 the French Academy of Sciences recommendation for 
a decimal metric system. This decimal metric 
system defined the length, mass, and capacity 
standards and listed the prefixes for multiples and submultiples of units. The law (Loi du 18 
germinal, an III) adopted the definitions and terms that we still use. Lenoir made a brass bar 
to represent the prov
isional metre, obtained from the survey of Lacaille, and a provisional 
standard for the kilogram was derived.
 The motto adopted for the new decimal metric system was Condorcet
's description of the 
metric system as
: For all time, for all people
 The new law 
defined the 
'Syst‘me m”trique d”cimal
' to distinguish it from the several 
'syst‘mes m”triques
' of former times that were not 
'd”cimal
'. The new measures were 
officially named 
'r”publicaines
'. The French Assembly 
decreed that henceforth the new 
'Republican 
Measures
' were to be 
legal measures in France.
 This law included the metre for length, the are (100 square metres) for area, the litre for 
volume, the gram (and later the kilogram for mass), and the bar for pressure as the official 
  Metrication timeline
 93 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 base units. All of these
 units were related to the metre, for example the kilogram was the 
mass of distilled water occupying a space of one litre; in the form of a cube, a litre is 100 mm 
high by 100 mm long by 100 mm wide.
 Prefixes were also identified with Greek words for the 
multiples: deca (x 10), hecto (x 100), 
kilo (x 1 000), and myria (x 10 000); and Latin prefixes for fractions: deci (1/10), centi 
(1/100), milli (1/1 000).
 Copies of the provisional standards were sent to several countries, including the United 
States.
 This was the decimal metric system, which proved to be simple to use, and making 
transitions between different dimensions easier beyond compare. The metric system has 
survived little changed as the basis of today
's Syst‘me International d
'Unit”s (SI).
 This or
der that established the metric names, that we now all use, also re
-established the 
scientific commission (except for Lavoisier, who had been guillotined the previous year) and 
ordered resumption of the survey of the quadrant.
 The new French coinage, inclu
ding the decimal franc, was also introduced as the French legal 
currency.
 1797 The UK passed the Weights and Measures Act 1797
 1797-1801 Thomas Jefferson was Vice President for President John Adams.
 1798 Delambre and M”chain completed the survey (despite t
he great difficulties due to the 
political conditions) of the meridian of longitude between Barcelona and Dunkerque.
 In the whole of the quadrant survey, only angles had been measured, the angles of thousands 
of contiguous triangles stretching all the way 
from Barcelona to Dunkerque. All that was 
needed was the measurement of any side of only one of these triangles then the dimensions 
of all the others could be calculated, and from them the distance along the meridian. 
Delambre, using a special ruler measur
ed one of the baselines 
Ñ it took him 33 days to 
measure a single line with sufficiently high accuracy and precision.
 1798 September
 Scientists met in Paris 
to 
discuss
 the 
Delambre and M”chain 
survey findings
 to confirm the 
metric standards
 and definitions
. They held a conference on the 
decimal metric system
 that 
is now believed to be the first international scientific conference ever held anywhere in the 
world.
 Before the conference many of the visiting international scientists inspected the progress that 
had already been made following contributions from the UK
 (Wilkins)
, from the USA
 (Franklin and Jefferson)
, and from 
many scientists in 
France. The international scientists 
also took the opportunity to visit French educational and scientific laboratories a
nd to tour 
major French industrial facilities.
 The international delegates included: Henricus Aeneae from the Batavian Republic; Balbo, 
Mascheroni, Multedo, Franchini and Fabbroni from Italy; Thomas Bugge from Denmark; 
Ciscar and Pedrayes from Spain;  Trall‘s from Switzerland; and 
Jean Henri 
van Swinde
n from the Netherlands. There were also delegates from the Cisalpine Republic, the Ligurian 
Republic, Sardinia, and Tuscany.
   Metrication timeline
 94 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 The French scientists, who had already been working on the decimal metric system for some 
years, joined these international scienti
sts for the conference. These included: Coulomb, 
Mechain, Delambre, Laplace, Legendre, and Lagrange.
 Although scientists from the UK and from the USA did not specifically take part in this 
meeting, contributions to the decimal nature of the system and its 
overall structure had been 
discussed by Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson, in person in the 1780s and by 
correspondence since then. Contributions had also been made through correspondence from 
other nations such as the UK.
 1798 November 28
 An internat
ional meeting of experts was called to consider Delambre
's and M”chain
's survey 
results. One of the meeting
's committees consisted of four persons, each of whom 
independently calculated the length of the metre from the measurements 
Ñ and from certain 
assum
ptions about the shape of the earth 
Ñ their calculations agreed.
 Two commissions were set up in France.
 The first of these, chaired by 
Jean Henri van 
Swinden (1746
-1823) 
from the Netherlands, checked the results of Delambre and M”chain 
who had completed th
e measurement of the arc of meridian so that the exact length of the 
metre could be determined. Platinum and iron standards of the metre were then constructed.
 Van Swinden
's committee also considered the issue of the metric prefixes.
 Thomas Jefferson had coined the words, cent to mean one hundredth and mil to mean one 
thousandth and 
Prieur de la CŽte d
'Or, a former military engineer, had 
also
 suggested 
a prefix for a tenth (deci
). Van Swinden further developed these and they became the
 basis of 
the current range of prefixes that we use for both multiples and for sub
-multiples. More were 
added at the suggestion of the British Association for the Advancement of Science (BAAS) in 
1874.
 The second commission, chaired by Trall‘s from Switzer
land, made the determination of the 
mass of the kilogramme. 
They carefully measured the mass of a cube of distilled water 
at the 
temperature of melting ice
 that was one
-tenth of a metre on each side (100 mm x 100 mm x 
100 mm). The size of this container be
came the standard for the litre and the mass of the 
water became the standard for the kilogram. Based on the mass of this amount of water, 
a platinum kilogram was constructed.
 1799 The USA Congress passed the 
'Surveyors Act
', the first federal weights and 
measures law. It 
used the units: inches, feet, and yards.
 The Royal Institution was founded in London with the task of exploring scientific and 
technical advances that were applicable to:
 É the application of science to the common purposes of life.
 However
 it did not see that the establishment of national standards in weights and measures 
was one of these issues.
 J. P. Hobert and L. Ideler published, 
'Nouvelles tables trigonometriques
' in Berlin. This gave 
natural and log sines, cosines, tangents, and cotan
gents, to 7 decimal places, and also natural 
sines and tangents for the first hundred ten
-thousandths of a right angle.
 1799 April 30
 Van Swinden presented his report
 on length
. He reported that the survey of Delambre and 
M”chain led to fixing the definiti
ve length of the metre. It was based on the best estimate that 
could be made at that time of the distance from the North Pole to the Equator. Subsequent 
examination has shown that there were some errors made in the survey of the length of the 
  Metrication timeline
 95 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Earth
's quadr
ant. Considering the difficulties of measuring any Earth meridian, it was 
decided that instead of altering the length of the metre to maintain the 1/10 000 000
 ratio, 
the metre would simply be defined as the distance between two marks on a precisely made 
platinum bar. This platinum bar would then become the world standard metre.
 The standard metre was a platinum bar with a rectangular cross section and polished parallel 
ends. This bar is the 
'Metre of the Archives
'. A metre is the distance between the polis
hed end 
faces at a specified temperature, and this bar was the international standard metre for most 
of the 19th century. It was compared to other bars with optical comparators as a means of 
disseminating the metre.
 1799 May 30
 Trall‘s presented his volume
 and mass report.
 1799 June 22
 With the formal presentation to the Assembly of the standard metre, as determined by 
Delambre and M”chain, the metric system became a fact when the standard metre was 
formally deposited in the national archives of France.
 Following the reports from earlier in the year, Janety and Lenoir made standards of the 
metre and the kilogram. The new standards were presented to the Council on June 22 by a 
delegation of French and European scientists led by Van Swinden of The Netherlan
ds. On the 
same day, the standards of the metre and kilogram were deposited in the Archives of the 
Republic. These two standards, representing the metre and the kilogram, can be seen as a 
major step in the development of our present Syst‘me Internationale 
d'Unit”s. The length of 
the metre is now measured more precisely in terms of the speed of light but its length has 
remained the same. The 
'Kilogram of the Archives
' that is also known as 
'Le Grand K
' remains the world standard for mass.
 Three government of
ficials, one of whom was Napoleon Bonaparte, signed the law 
establishing the metre and the kilogram as the official units of measure in France. As a result 
of this law t
he metre and the kilogram of the Archives became the legal standards for 
measurement in
 France and subsequently for the rest of the world. Copies of both the metre 
standard and the kilogram standard were also made and provided to the scientific delegates 
to take home to their governments.
 Since this date, 1799 June 22, there has been no atte
mpt to change the length of the metre as 
the world standard for length. The only changes have occurred when more exact measuring 
methods became available. Although the metre has not changed in length, its precision has 
become much greater as new scientific
 methods became available. Here is a timeline of the 
metre including some definitions from before 1799 June 22.
   Metrication timeline
 96 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
  Timeline of the metre
 Year
 Definition of the Metre
 1790 May 8
 The French National Assembly decre
ed that the length of the new 
metre would be 
equal to the length of a pendulum with a half
-period 
of one second.
 1791 March 30
 The French National Assembly accepts the proposal 
from
 the 
French Academy of Sciences that the new definition for the metre be 
equal to one ten
-millionth of the length of th
e Earth's meridian 
Ñ the distance from the equator to the north pole 
Ñ along a quadrant 
that passed 
from 
near 
Dunkerque
 in France and Barcelona in Spain.
 1793 August 1
 The definition of the metre as 1 / 10 000 000 of the distance from 
the 
North 
pole to th
e equator was confirmed.
 1795 April 7
 A p
rovisional metre bar 
was 
constructed of brass.
 1799 December 10
 The French National Assembly specifies the 
length of a 
platinum 
metre bar, constructed on 23 June 1799 and deposited in the 
National Archives, as the
 final standard of length for the metre.
 1889 September 28
 The first General Conference on Weights and Measures (CGPM) 
defines the metre as the distance between two lines on a standard 
bar of an alloy of platinum with ten percent iridium, measured at 
the 
melting point of ice. This International prototype platinum
-iridium metre bar had a cross
-section shaped like an X to give it 
more stability.
 1906
 The length of the metre was re
-specified as 
1 000 000/
0.643 846 96 
wavelengths in air of the red line of the
 cadmium spectrum.
 1927 October 6
 The seventh CGPM adjusts the definition of the metre to be the 
distance, at 0 ¡C, between the axes of the two central lines marked 
on the prototype bar of platinum
-iridium, this bar being subject to 
one standard atmospher
e of pressure and supported on two 
cylinders of at least 
ten mill
imetre
s diameter, symmetrically placed 
in the same horizontal plane at a distance of 571 millimetres from 
each other.
 1960 October 20
 The eleventh CGPM defines the metre to be equal to 1,650
,763.73 
wavelengths in vacuum of the radiation corresponding to the 
transition between the 2p10 and 5d5 quantum levels of the krypton
-86 atom.
 1983 October 21
 The seventeenth CGPM defines the metre as equal to the distance 
(1) travelled by light in vacuum 
during a time interval of 
1Ú299
 792
 458 of a second.
 2002
 The CIPM recommended
 that the 1983 definition be restricted to 
"lengths
 1 which are sufficiently short for the effects predicted by 
general relativity to be negligibl
e with respect to the uncertainties 
of realisation.
"    Metrication timeline
 97 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
  1799 December 10
 Following a scientific conference with representatives from Denmark, Italy, the Netherlands, 
Spain, and Switzerland, to validate the metric system's physical foundations and to desig
n prototype standards, the metric system became a 
legal 
fact in France when legislation was 
passed in the National Assembly.
 The p
ermanent standards for the meter and the kilogram 
that were made from platinum 
became 
the 
official 
standards for 
France by a decree of 10 December 1799. 
The text of this 
legislation was the first time that the words 
'metric system
' were officially used.
 From France the metric system soon spread to become the universal language of 
measurement of all countries. For exa
mple, the d”partement of Dyle (in Brussels, Belgium) 
made the metric system legally binding on the same day as the legislation was pass
ed in 
France 
Ñ 1799 December 10
. 1800 A Julian leap day was skipped in 1800 and this changed the start of the UK tax year
 from 
April 5 to April 6. With the characteristic efficiency of the financial community, this date has 
not been changed since then. The financial community still uses fractions such as quarters 
and halves in interest rates despite the introduction of the e
asier to use decimal numbers into 
England in 1608.
 The Coast Guard and Geodetic Survey of the USA obtained metre and kilogram standards 
from France as the basis for their mapping of the coast of the USA.
 1801 C. Borda and J. B. J. Delambre published 
'Tables trigonometriques decimales
' in Paris. This 
gives sines, cosines, tangents, cotangents, secants, and cosecants at intervals of 1 centesimal 
(1 hundredth) of a quadrant to 7 decimal places. Borda and Delambre also give seven
-figure 
logarithms of all t
he numbers to 10,000.
 1801-09 Thomas Jefferson became President of the USA where, among other things, he negotiated the 
Louisiana Purchase that doubled the size of the USA.
 1803 France adopted decimal currency with centimes, decimes and francs. Prior to th
is they had 
used 12 deniers to equal one sol, and twenty sols to equal one livre. The changeover went 
smoothly as one sol became five centimes and twenty of them became one franc instead of 
one livre. France subsequently introduced decimal currency to a nu
mber of other countries 
that it occupied during the Napoleonic period; these transitions were also successful and a 
large number of European nations had adopted decimal currency by 1815.
 1804 Delambre published 
Decimal trigonometrical tables
 to extend Bord
a's work toward rational 
decimal measurements of angles instead of the old Babylonian divisiond into degrees, 
minutes, and seconds. Borda divided a right angle into 100 grades, each degree into 100 
centigrades, and each centigrade by decimal fractions. Bor
da's system required new 
trigonometrical tables to be constructed; Borda organised these calculations and the new 
trigonometrical tables were published by Delambre in 1804.
   Metrication timeline
 98 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 In a letter to the president of the Royal Society, Sir Joseph Banks, Matthew Flinde
rs suggests 
that the name 
'Australia
' should replace the name, 
'New Holland
', that was previously used. 
The name, 
'Australia
', appears in the 1806 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society.
 1805 Ferdinand R. Hassler, a Swiss immigrant to the USA, bro
ught a standard metre back home 
from a visit to Europe. This standard metre was a gift from his friend J. G. Tralles, who had 
been the Swiss delegate to the 1799 International Institute on the Metre in Paris. Because 
Tralles had chaired the institute
's com
mittee on the construction of the standard metres he 
was given two, when each of the other delegates was given only one standard metre to take 
home. Hassler presented his standard metre to the Philosophical Society of Philadelphia for 
safekeeping.
 John Dal
ton (1766
-1844) proposed his theory that substances are made from atoms. 
Wikipedia (at 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Dalton#Atomic_theory
 ) lists the five 
main points of Dalton's
 atomic theory as:
 1 Elements are made of tiny particles called atoms.
 2 All atoms of a given element are identical.
 3 The atoms of a given element are different from those of any other element; the atoms 
of different elements can be distinguished from one anoth
er by their respective relative 
weights.
 4 Atoms of one element can combine with atoms of other elements to form chemical 
compounds; a given compound always has the same relative numbers of types of 
atoms.
 5 Atoms cannot be created, divided into smaller partic
les, nor destroyed in the chemical 
process; a chemical reaction simply changes the way atoms are grouped together.
 Most, but not all, of these ideas are still in use by chemists and physicists.
 1806 Dominique Fran“ois Jean Arago (1786
-1853) travelled to 
Spain to complete the measurement 
of an arc of meridian of the Earth that was not quite completed by Delambre and M”chain. 
Arago's additional measurements took from 1806 till 1809. Later, Arago became director of 
the Paris Observatory.
 1807 Ferdinand R. Ha
ssler became superintendent of the newly organized Coast Survey so the 
Philosophical Society of Philadelphia returned the standard metre to him to use in the 
survey. The Coast Survey used this standard metre to verify other measures until 1890, when 
it was
 placed in the vault of the Bureau of Standards.
 1809 Jean Baptiste Joseph Delambre reported the time for light to travel from the Sun to the Earth 
as 8 minutes and 12 seconds. This yields the speed of light as just a little more than 300,000 
kilometres pe
r second. Its modern value is exactly 299
 792.458 
kilo
metres per second.
 1809 August 17
 The Mayor of Turin declared that from 1809 October 1 the metric system would be 
obligatory.
   Metrication timeline
 99 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1809-26 At Monticello, Thomas Jefferson drew up plans, supervised 
construction, and outlined 
curriculum of the University of Virginia.
 1811 Thomas Jefferson outlines his ideas for a decimal system of measurement in a letter to Dr. 
Robert Patterson (See: 
http://www.let.rug.nl/usa/P/tj3/writings/brf/jefl212.htm
 ) in which 
he writes:
 What ratio shall we adopt for the parts and multiples of this unit? The decimal 
without a doubt. Our arithmatic being founded in a decimal numeration, the same 
numeration in 
a system of measures, weights and coins, tallies at once with that. 
On this question, I believe, there has been no difference of opinion.
 In his book, 
'An Elementary Investigation of the Theory of Numbers: with its application to 
the indeterminate and Diop
hantine analysis, the analytical and geometrical division of the 
circle, and several other curious algebraical and arithmetical problems.
' (J. Johnson and 
Co,
 London), Peter Barlow writes about the 
'Decimal System
'. 1812 By decree, Napoleon Bonaparte tempo
rarily suspended the compulsory provisions of the 
1795 metric system law. This followed protests about the new system of measurement. This 
decree gave the illusion that Napoleon had decided to go back to the old ways and 
reintroduced 
'mesures usuelles
' suc
h as the aune, the boisseau, the livre, and the toise.
 However, in reintroducing the names of the old units, Napoleon also had the old names 
redefined in metric terms. Length, for example, was measured using a two metres toise 
(fathom), and mass by a 500 g
ram livre (pound). The toise was divided into 6 pieds (feet) 
that were each one third of a metre in length. A decree was also issued that the legal decimal 
system must be taught in schools and use
d in all official transactions.
 France now had th
ree separat
e measuring methods
 and a major problem
: " all of the 
hundreds 
of 
old pre
-1790 measures,
 " the metric system
 (of 
1799)
, " the Napoleonic 
mesures usuelles
, and
 " all of the 
thousands of 
conversion factors between all of these units.
 To the French public it seemed 
that there were far too many separate methods to measure 
anything and this complicated program of different measures led to total confusion in 
measurement in France and eventually led to demonstrations, riots, and even deaths. The 
confusion lasted about a 
generation before the metric system was once again reinstated as 
the sole means of measurement in 1837 with a cut
-off date in 1840, and its position in France 
has never been threatened again.
 Gradually neighbouring countries realised the simplicity of the 
metric system and it spread 
rapidly (in historical terms 200 years is not a long time) to the rest of the world.
 The French army retreated from Moscow.
 1813 Ferdinand R Hassler brought a brass bar, called the Troughton scale, from England to the 
USA to use
 as a standard for the English Imperial yard. He used the 36 inches between the 
twenty
-seventh and the sixty
-third inch marks on an 82
-inch brass bar as his standard yard. 
The secretary of the treasury reported that this bar:
   Metrication timeline
 100 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 É had been compared with the p
endulum vibrating seconds in London and also 
with the French metre, which is based upon measurements of arcs of a meridian of 
the earth.
 1814 In France, the decree of 4 July 1814 made it clear that the popular meaning of the word 
'm”trique
' had shifted fro
m being any system of measurement to referring to the system 
based on the metre. (Strangely, in 21st century use, the word metric is regaining some of its 
original meaning as referring to any measurement in economic jargon such as (say) 
'We will 
use the un
employment metric as one of the metrics for the whole economy.
') The government of the USA bought a standard bar from Troughton
's of London. It was a 
bronze bar, 82 inches long, with an inlaid silver scale.
 1815 Ferdinand Hassler brought the 82 inch Trough
ton
's bar to the USA as he intended to use it as 
the standard for the Coast Survey of the USA. He defined the 
'yard
' as the distance between 
the 27th and 63rd inch marks on the 82 inch scale. This copy of Troughton
's bar served as the 
unofficial standard o
f length for the USA from 1832 until 1856. It was presumed to be 
identical with the English yard (the one preceding the Parliament fire) but that apparently 
had not been checked by direct comparison.
 The UK passed the Weights and Measures Act 1815
 1816 On 
1816 February 21 the French government made a major step backwards; the metric 
system was banned from use in retail shops. In the place of the metric system, shops were to 
use the old collection of units, which were to be known as the 
'Mesures Usuelles
'. Metric 
units, although still used, were outlawed by government decree. The French ban on the use of 
metric units in French shops was not repealed until 1825 and the 
'Mesures Usuelles
' were not 
made illegal until 1837.
 On 1816 August 21, The Netherlands 
passed a law that would make that country metric from 
the beginning of 1820. Before 1816, The Netherlands used both old and metric units. From 
1810 to 1813, The Netherlands was a part of France and both old units and metric units were 
legal under French la
w. The other Benelux countries, Belgium and Luxembourg also 
converted to metric measures at this time.
 President James Madison in his 1816 congressional message said:
 Congress will call to mind that no adequate provision has yet been made for the 
uniformit
y of weights and measures contemplated by the Constitution. The great 
utility of a standard fixed in nature and founded on the easy rule of decimal 
proportions is sufficiently obvious.
 A report was published from the UK Select Committee on the Original Sta
ndards of Weights 
and Measures.
 1816/17 Another 
'Great Recoinage
' was proposed for the UK. Pushing for a decimal currency, Mr J 
Wilson Croker expressed his view in the House of Commons, that:
 'it would be almost unpardonable for the legislature at this 
time to re
-enact and 
legalise anew these barbarisms in the division of our coin which were attended 
with great inconvenience.
'   Metrication timeline
 101 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1817 Captain Henry Kater 
FRS 
(1777/1835) conducted pioneering researches in England to 
improve the precision of weights and measu
res. In particular he aimed to improve the 
seconds pendulum so it could be used as a standard of length all around the world. A seconds 
pendulum is just under a metre in length and it is made so that one beat (half a period) of the 
pendulum takes exactly o
ne second.
 By 1817, the length of the seconds pendulum was known with sub
-millimetre accuracy. By 
then it had been measured in many places around the world and by many famous people. 
These included: Isaac Newton, 
Marin 
Mersenne, Giovan Battista Riccioli, 
Jean 
Picard, Jean 
Richer, Gabriel Mouton, 
Christiaan 
Huygens, Jean Cassini, Nicolas Louis de Lacaille, Cassini 
de Thury and 
Charles
-Marie de
 La Condamine. As examples: Lacaille and Cassini de Thury 
measured the length of the seconds pendulum in Paris in 174
0 (latitude 48¡N) as the 
equivalent of 993.83
 mm; Isaac Newton measured the length of the seconds pendulum at 
45¡N as the equivalent of 993.53
 mm; and La Condamine during the Peru expedition made a 
measurement at the equator, of 990.65
 mm).
 Henry 
Kater was
 the first to design and use a compound or invariable pendulum. Kater's 
pendulum was reversible, which meant that once it had been used to determine the absolute 
intensity of gravity at a particular place, the same pendulum could then be used to establish 
the comparative intensity of gravity in any other places.
 One of Kater's first experiments was to determine the length of a seconds pendulum in 
London. He found that this length was 39.13929 inches (about 994
 millimetres depending on 
which inch he used).
 Under Henry Kater's instructions, Thomas Jones made a series of 13 invariable pendulums 
and these were '
swung
' in many parts of the world b
ecause the
 earth is not a perfect sphere 
Ðthe force of 
gravity varies slightly from one place to another. Using one of
 Kater's pendulums, 
the force of 
gravity was determined in many parts of the world, leading to a much better 
understanding of the shape of the earth.
 For example, Invariable Pendulum, No. 10, was used by Sir Thomas Brisbane to conduct 
pendulum experiments 
at Parramatta when he was Governor of New South Wales in 
Australia from 1821 to 1825. Pendulum No. 10 was also taken on an Atlantic voyage, an 
expedition to the Euphrates, and on James Clark RossÕs Antarctic expedition.
 The congress of the USA requested th
e Secretary of State, John Quincy Adams, to 
recommend a system of weights and measures for use in the USA.
 1819 The 
'First Report
' of the Commissioners appointed to consider weights and measures in the 
UK was presented to Parliament.
 1820 The 
'Second Repor
t' of the Commissioners appointed to consider weights and measures in 
the UK was presented to Parliament.
 1821 February 21
 Following a four
-year investigation, John Quincy Adams wrote a comprehensive report for 
Congress. This report dealt with the modernis
ation of the measurement system of the USA 
and included some thoughts on 
'the metric question
'. Here is an excerpt from John Quincy 
Adams
' 'Report on Weights and Measures by the Secretary of State, made to the Senate on 
February 22, 1821
':    Metrication timeline
 102 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Weights and 
Measures may be ranked among the necessaries of life to every 
individual of human society. They enter into the economical arrangements and 
daily concerns of every family. They are necessary to every occupation of human 
industry; to the distribution and sec
urity of every species of property; to every 
transaction of trade and commerce; to the labors of the husbandman; to the 
ingenuity of the artificer; to the studies of the philosopher; to the researches of the 
antiquarian; to the navigation of the mariner; a
nd the marches of the soldier; to 
all the exchanges of peace, and all the operations of war. The knowledge of them, 
as in established use, is among the first elements of education, and is often learned 
by those who learn nothing else, not even to read and 
write. This knowledge is 
riveted in the memory by the habitual application of it to the employments of men 
throughout life.
 Ferdinand R. Hassler helped John Quincy Adams prepare his 1821 congressional report on 
uniform measures. Hassler probably knew more 
about the history and use of measures than 
any other American alive at that time.
 When Quincy Adams presented his 
'Report Upon Weights and Measures
' to the USA 
Congress he recommended consideration of the international metric system. Specifically he 
wrote:
 The (metric) system approaches to the ideal perfection of 
'uniformity
'. (It) will shed 
unfading glory upon the age É Considered merely as a labor
-saving machine, it is 
a new power, offered to man, incomparably greater than that which he has 
acquired by th
e new agency which he has given to steam. It is in design the 
greatest invention since that of printing.
 Quincy Adams
' report then recommended that no immediate change in the system of weights 
and measures be made arguing that the people of the United Stat
es were not yet ready for the 
metric system.
 Quincy Adams considered that it would be premature for the United States to adopt the 
metric system before it proved to be successful in practice in other parts of the world. 
It is 
probable that the French reversion to the 
'mesures usuelles
' in 1812 
greatly influenced Quincy 
Adams and the Congress of the USA
. But for 
Napoleon's
 'mesures usuelles
', the USA could 
well have changed to metric measures in 1821.
 In the UK, the 
'Third
 Report
' of the Commissioners appointed to consider weights and 
measures was presented to Parliament.
 1822 Charles Babbage, in 1822, decided that the job of calculating mathematical tables should be 
done by machine. 
Babbage invented the difference engine t
o do this work and later he 
invented the analytical engine. These 
computing engines were the world
's first programmable 
computers. The first computer programmer in the world was Ada (Countess) Lovelace. Ada 
was the daughter of the English poet, Lord Byron.
 Unfortunately, Charles Babbage
 never 
completed any of his computing engines because he kept adding improvements.
 1823 Charles Babbage demonstrated his 
'Difference Engine
', a mechanical means of computing 
mathematical tables, to the Royal Society. Later, B
abbage designed Analytical Engines that 
could store programs.
 1824 June 17
 The UK passed the Weights and Measures Act 1824. 
The Weights and Measures Act 1824 
established new methods of measuring for the UK and for the British Commonwealth. The 
  Metrication timeline
 103 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 three basic 
units were the pound avoirdupois, the yard, and the second. The English Weights 
and Measures Act
 declared the avoirdupois pound and the yard as 
'Imperial Standards
' during the reign of 
George IV.
 This Act also phased out many 
of the old
 measuring 
words
. The Imperial unit of length was defined as the length of the prototype of the imperial yard 
made by Bird in 1760. All length measures were to be based on this prototype yard.
 The Imperial unit of capacity, the gallon, was defined as the volume of 10 pounds a
voirdupois 
of distilled water, weighed in air against brass weights at a temperature of 62¡F and 
atmospheric pressure of 30 inches of mercury. This definition of the gallon might be 
interpreted as Britain
's response to the decimal metric system but it is t
he only factor of ten 
used in the Imperial system; quarts and pints remain as quarters and eighths of an Imperial 
gallon.
 The state of New South Wales in Australia obtained standards of mass, length and volume 
from England to develop an Australian measurem
ent system. In time as other Australian 
states developed their own measurement methods it was soon recognised that a national 
measurement system was needed.
 1825 France again allowed the use of metric units, but it did this alongside the 
'Mesures Usuelles
' that had been introduced in 1812. France now had dual measures.
 George Stephenson put James Watt
's high
-pressure steam engine on rails in his 
'Locomotion 
No. 1, which was the first steam locomotive to carry both passengers and freight on a regular 
basis. 
This led to railways being built all around the world. By the 1830s, London even had 
steam driven buses, one of which was named the 
'Automation
'. By the end of the 19th 
century, steam technology was well enough developed that the Stanley Steamer competed 
with the gasoline engined cars for several years.
 Sir John Wrottesley introduced a motion into the UK House of Commons to:
 inquire how far the coin of the realm could be adapted to a decimal scale.
 Sir John wanted the pound to be divided into ten double
-shi
llings (later called Florins), each 
of 100 farthings. In response, the Chancellor of the Exchequer agreed to unify the currencies 
of Britain and Ireland, so that there would no longer be thirteen 
English 
pennies to an Irish 
Shilling.
 1825 May 1
 The UK pass
ed the Weights and Measures Act 1825. 
The 
'Weights and Measures Act 1824
' defined
 Imperial weights and measures. These came into force in the UK and in all of its 
colonies on this day in 1825.
 1826 July 4
 Thomas Jefferson died on the 50th anniversary of 
the signing of the Declaration of 
Independence.
 Thomas Jefferson never lost interest in the issue of decimal measurement although 
discussion of it in the USA grew less and less as he grew older. In the book, 
Jefferson And 
The Rights Of Man,
 Dumas Malone wr
ites this about Thomas Jefferson:
 When writing his autobiography as an old man, he noted that everybody had 
readily comprehended the odometer he used in 
travelling
 which divided the mile 
into "cents," and concluded that the people would have soon got used 
to a decimal 
system of weights and measures.
   Metrication timeline
 104 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Perhaps nothing short of revolution could have overcome inertia sufficiently to 
cause such a system to be established, and there was no revolution in America in 
this decade as there was in France.
 Thus Jefferson
 lost a title to fame which he might have cherished more than any of 
the political honors he gained or the offices he held.
 1827 Georg Ohm (1787
-1854) published what is now known as Ohm's law in 
Die galvanische 
Kette, mathematisch bearbeitet
 (The Galvanic 
Circuit Investigated Mathematically). Ohm 
used an electrochemical cell (invented by Alessandro Volta in Italy) with other equipment he 
designed and built to determine the direct proportionality between the potential difference 
(now often called the voltage
) applied across a conductor and the resultant electric current.
 Albert Gallatin, Minister of the USA in London, sent 
a Troy pound to the USA 
Mint at 
Philadelphia.
 1827 January 08
 Ferdinand R. Hassler wrote in a letter that was published in the New York 
American
 The nation that shall exclude from itself the admission and use of foreign talents 
and knowledge, must always remain behind in the paths of civilization, and will 
appear comparatively barbarous, if not really become so. Sciences, arts, and ideas 
for improvements, are the common property of all nations 
Ñ their mutual ties 
Ñ and cannot be successfully cultivated without free intercourse, exchange, and 
intermixture É Every civilized nation of Europe has contributed its share to that 
happy mixture of k
nowledge and ideas of improvements, that has caused the 
character of this country to rise to so high a standing.
 1828 May 19
 Ferdinand Hassler recognised the Troy pound as 
'an exact copy of the imperial troy pound of 
Great Britain
' and it was adopted for u
se as the basis for new coinage of the USA.
 An Act was passed by the House to establish this Troy pound as the standard of mass for the 
USA Mint. This was the only law of the USA officially adopting a standard of any of the old 
weights and measures. 
The Br
itish yard, avoirdupois pound, and the Winchester gallon were 
approved as the basis for USA customs duties.
 1830 By 1830, tariffs on imports into the USA were in a mess. They were far from being uniform 
because ports in different states were using differen
t ways of measuring. Importers used 
these differences to cheat the system by choosing ports that used bushels with the greatest 
number of cubic inches for importing such things as grain and sugar. As a result, importers 
became rich, commerce suffered in ot
her ports, and the U.S. Treasury suffered from loss of 
revenue.
 The Senate ordered the Treasury Department to 
inspect the customs houses and to 
compare 
the weights and measures used
 in them. As a result, President Andrew Jackson chose 
Ferdinand R. Hassler,
 a minor official in the Treasury Department, to lead a survey of 
customs houses. As a basis for his work, Hassler got his standard metre back from 
Pennsylvania. 
It was recognised that part of his work would be to formulate the first 
standardisation of mea
surem
ent for the USA. This survey uncovered quite a variety of 
'standard pounds
' in the various customs houses.
   Metrication timeline
 105 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 In the USA, the Office of Standard Weights and Measures was formed and formal 
standardisation began under its control. In the following years, a
 new standard pound was 
dispatched to each of the customs houses and also to the governor of each state.
 1832 By administrative action, the Secretary of the Treasury declared the yard, the avoirdupois 
pound, and the Winchester bushel to be the official 
system of weights and measures for the 
USA.
 The legal Yard of the USA was defined as the distance between the lines 27 and 63 of a bronze 
bar, 82 inches in length that had been brought England for the Federal Survey Department in 
1813.
 The only standard po
und in the USA was the Troy pound that was defined as 5760 grains; the 
avoirdupois pound was defined 7000 grains so it was simply defined as 7000/5760 Troy 
pounds since the USA did not have a standard avoirdupois pound.
 Charles Babbage in his book, 
'On the
 Economy of Machinery and Manufactures
' recommending changing to decimal measurements and decimal currency.
 1833 The German mathematician, Karl Friedrich Gauss (1777/1855) strongly promoted the 
application of a metric system, together with the astronomical
 second as the unit of time for 
use in science. Gauss
' system was based on millimetres, grams, and seconds, and he devised a 
coherent system of units for the physical sciences. The millimetre and the gram were defined 
by the standard metre and kilogram and
 Gauss added the astronomical second.
 Examples of Gauss
' use of this coherent system included absolute measurements of the 
earth
's magnetic force. In later years, Gauss and Wilhelm Eduard Weber (1804/1891) 
extended these measurements so that the system cou
ld also include electrical phenomena. 
Gauss especially promoted these units for the physical sciences because they were coherent.
 In the USA, the Treasury Department directed Hassler to construct and distribute standards 
of length, mass, and volume, and ba
lances by which masses might be compared to all of the 
states.
 1834 October 16
 Less than ten years after the establishment of Imperial measures, the UK Houses of 
Parliament burned down the three standard measures 
Ð the yard, the pound and the gallon 
Ñ that
 defined British measures were destroyed. 
In fact this Imperial yard had a very short 
official life (9 years and 198 days) as in 1834 it was damaged in a fire that burned down both 
Houses of Parliament.
 In particular, Bird
's yards 
Ñ the 1758 and the 1760 
Ñ were both destroyed so the UK and all 
of the colonies had no standard for length, even though the 1824 Act of Parliament that 
legalized the 1760 bar as the standard for England had also made a provision that, in the 
event that Bird
's bar was lost or destr
oyed, it should be replaced using the pendulum method 
to determine its length but this was not used.
 The UK passed the Weights and Measures Act 1834.
 1836 Belgium, Holland, and Luxemburg withdraw official use of all old measures in favor of the 
metric syst
em.
   Metrication timeline
 106 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1837 Napoleon
's armies were again forced to retreat from Moscow and
 Napoleon was banished to 
Elba.
 1837 July 4
 The new emperor, Louis Phillipe
 made the use of the decimal metric system obligatory with a 
law passed on 1837 July 4. This law also 
declared the 
'Mesures Usuelles
' illegal in France and 
ordered that the only units to be used in France were to be 
units of the 
decimal metric 
system
. France once again changed to the 1799 metric system with a law that strictly banned 
all the old non
-metric
 measures and the Napoleonic measur
es from 1840 January 1 onwards. 
From that date 
using old measures 
beca
me a penal offence
. 1838 A survey of Switzerland found that the Swiss foot had 37 different regional lengths and the 
Swiss ell had 68 different lengths
 There were 83 different Swiss measures for dry grain, 70 
different measures for liquids, and 63 different measures for weights.
 Starting this year, standards representing units of length, capacity, and mass (troy and 
avoirdupois) were manufactured and del
ivered to each of the states of the USA. The length 
and capacity standards were based on the metre and the mass (weight) was based on the Troy 
pound in the mint of the USA.
 1839 When William Henry Fox Talbot described his process of 
'photogenic drawing
' to
 the Royal 
Society, Sir John Herschel recognised his invention as 
'the first new art form in centuries
' and quickly renamed it 
'photography
'. 1840 January 1
 The metric system was reinstated as the compulsory measurement system of France. 
French 
people who 
did not use the decimal metric units were threatened with large fines and severe 
penalties. It was illegal to use or even own non
-metric weights and measures. Non
-metric 
units were banned in public and private correspondence. Inspectors were empowered to 
confiscate old weights and measures. Schools and business adopted the new system rapidly 
and it has been used in France ever since. It had taken France just under 50 years to change 
to metric.
 Greece, the Netherlands, and Italy changed to the metric system.
 1841 The USA finally received a complete set of the official French standards. These included a 
steel metre that had been compared with the metre of the Conservatory of Arts and 
Measures, and a standard kilogram that had been compared with the kilogram of
 the French 
Archives.
 1844 The last English standard, the 
Imperial Standard Yard
, was manufactured in bronze in 1844. 
This new 
Imperial Standard Yard
 was to replace the previous standard that been destroyed 
in the fire that burned down the Houses of Parlia
ment in 1834. Copies of this yard were sent 
to the USA.
 Antoine LeCoultre, who established the watchmaking company Jaeger
-LeCoultre, invented 
the 
'Millionometer
'. This was the first instrument capable of measuring components to the 
  Metrication timeline
 107 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 nearest micrometre. The 
'Millionometer
' revolutionised the watchmaking concept of 
precision and reliability and it established the metric system as the watch
-making industry
's worldwide measurement standard.
 1845 James Prescott Joule performed a series of experiment to demonstrat
e the transformation of 
energy from one form to another. In the first experiment he placed a paddle wheel in a tank 
of water, then measured the temperature of the water. After he had cranked the wheel in the 
water for a measured time, he took the temperatu
re again and found that the temperature of 
the water rose as he cranked the paddle wheel. When he quantified and compared his 
observations from many experiments, he discovered that an equal amount of energy was 
always required to raise the temperature of t
he water by the same amount. Later he did other 
experiments to show that he could raise the temperature using other forms of energy. Joule 
obtained similar results with electrical or magnetic energy as he did with mechanical energy.
 Joule's demonstrations 
showed that different forms of energy can be converted from one 
form to another. Later, Joule's observations came to be known as the '
Law of conservation of 
energy
' that states that whenever energy is transferred between two objects, or converted 
from one 
form into another, no energy is created and none is destroyed. The total amount of 
energy involved in the process remains the same.
 1847 Many nations in the world used the USA as a model when they wanted to abolish their old, 
inefficient money currencies t
o decimal currencies. They then used the change to decimal 
currency as a stepping
-stone to full metrication of all of their weights and measures. This was 
recognised in the USA, in 1847, when the Treasury Secretary of the USA, R. J. Walker wrote:
 'our deci
mal system of coinage É will be adopted, and lead as far as practicable to 
the introduction of the decimal system of weights and measures É throughout the 
world
'. Secretary Walker
's words proved true for all nations except for the USA where decimal 
currenc
y began.
 In the UK, Sir John Bowring, a future Governor of Hong Kong, proposed that there should be 
a new coin, the Queen, at ten to the pound, and another new coin, the Victoria, at one 
hundred to the pound. His patriotic arguments obviously won the debate, and th
e Chancellor 
of the Exchequer agreed to 
'gradually
' introduce decimal currency. The 
'Queen
' was renamed 
the 
'Florin
' and introduced in 1849.
 1848 Chile converted to metric measures.
 1849 Cuba, Puerto Rico, and Spain converted to metric measures.
 The UK made its first attempt to introduce decimal currency when they 
introduced the 
Florin, as a renamed 
'Queen
' from Bowring
's 1847 suggestion, which was carefully labelled 
'One Florin 
Ñ one Tenth of a pound
'. The Florin was introduced with the aim that 
'at the very worst a decimal coin could do no 
harm
', and that 
'the present system could go on if that failed
'. We now know that the Florin, 
the UK
's first decimal coin 
didn
't fail, and the second part of the change was introduced in 
1971, once the populati
on had become used to the new coin having used it for 122 years. 
These days The Florin is known as ten pence, or this is abbreviated as 10
 p.   Metrication timeline
 108 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1850 Norman Robert Pogson (1829/1891), an English astronomer suggested a classification for the 
brightness of star
s with decimal increments of magnitude. On Pogson
's scale a first 
magnitude star is one hundred times brighter than a sixth magnitude star.
 1850s During the early 1850s, Karl Friedrich Gauss (1777/1855) worked with Wilhelm Eduard 
Weber (1804/1891) to devel
op a logical system of fundamental units for electricity and 
magnetism. Their system was developed and promoted, under the active leadership of by 
James Clerk Maxwell (1831/1879) and William Thomson (Lord Kelvin) (1824/1907), through 
the British Associatio
n for the Advancement of Science (BAAS). Maxwell and Thomson 
helped to formulate the requirements for a coherent system of units with base units and 
derived units.
 In particular William Thomson played a major part in creating the international system of 
units used in the world today. He was known to have called the English system of weights 
and measures 
'barbarous.
' In a lecture demonstration with a muzzle
-loader rifle confusion 
between the avoirdupois dram (about 1.8 grams) and the apothecary
's dram (about
 3.9 
grams) caused a student to put into Thomson
's muzzle
-loader more than twice as much 
gunpowder as he should have. This could have blown Thomson
's head off. However, 
Thomson
's finicky attention to details led him to check the amount with the student bef
ore 
the demonstration. Perhaps this near
-death experience with old units stirred Thomson
's interest in better methods of measurement.
 1851 The British Government awarded the Royal Society its first annual Government Grant of 
£1,000 to be distributed for 
'private individual scientific research
'. 1852 Portugal converted to metric measures.
 The height of Mt. Everest was first measured during the 
'Great Trigonometrical Survey of 
India
'. Mount Everest is 8848 metres above sea level. By the way, Sir George Everes
t who 
was the first person to record the height and location of Mt. Everest pronounced his name 
'eve
-rest
' and not 
'ever
-rest
'. Peter Mark Roget (1779
-1869) published his famous thesaurus 
'to facilitate the expression of 
ideas and to assist in literary com
position
'. RogetÕs Thesaurus has not been out of print since 
its original publication. Roget gave credit to '
An Essay Towards a Real Character and a 
Philosophical Language
 (1668) by
 Bishop 
John Wilkins
, as a source of inspiration for his 
thesaurus. Wilkins
 Essay
 included a thesaurus of philosophical words as well as the 
foundations for the modern metric system.
 1853 Colombia and Panama converted to metric measures.
 1855 The UK passed the Weights and Measures Act 1855. N
ew standards 
were 
made 
to replace 
thos
e burned in 1834. 
Length was based on unofficial standards that had been compared to 
the Imper
ial Yard before it was damaged.
   Metrication timeline
 109 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1856 The British Parliament recognised the new standard and defined the 
'pound avoirdupois
' in 
terms of the mass of a platinum cylinder. This standard became known as the Imperial 
Standard Pound. They also decided to send copi
es of the yard and the avoirdupois pound to 
the United States and 
to all European countries.
 The UK made s
everal copies 
of the 1855 yard 
and o
ne of these (Copy No. 11) was sent to the 
United States
 together with a copy of the UK pound
. When the new set of yard and pound 
standards from the UK arrived in the USA the bronze bar, known as 
'Number 11
', was 
compared to the Troughton scale and it was fo
und to be 0.000 87 inch shorter. Another bar 
arrived from England for comparison, with the same result. The United States then adopted 
the new bar as its standard yard to replace the Troughton scale that had arrived in 1815.
 This 
'Number 11
' bar 
then became the legal standard
 yard
 for the USA
 until 1893
 when metric 
system definitions 
of the inch, foot, 
and 
yard
 were adopted
 for the USA
. Ecuador converted to metric mea
sures.
 1857 Venezuela converted to metric measures.
 1859 J. C. Maxwell, after extensive and detailed studies of various sources of light, suggested 
choosing as a natural standard for length, the wavelength of the yellow spectral line of 
sodium.
 The UK pass
ed the Weights and Measures Act 1859.
 Charles Darwin published his book, 
'On the Origin of Species
'. John Taylor wrote. 
The Great Pyramid: Why Was It Built? & Who Built It?
, in which he 
argued that measurements such as 
" (pi) and 
# (Phi) had been deliberately incorporated into 
the design of the Great Pyramid of Khufu at Giza. This book subsequently had a profound 
effect on the adoption of the metric system in English speaking nations especially with the 
influence of Charles Piazzi S
myth (see 1864 below).
 1860 In the USA, the state of Maine expressed its desire for the adoption of the metric system as 
the universal system of weights and measures.
 1861 The British Association for the Advancement of Science set up an international commi
ttee, 
under the chairmanship of William Thompson 
(later Lord Kelvin)
, to choose the best unit for 
electrical resistance. This committee published its work, between 1863 and 1867, and it was 
this committee who initially proposed definitions for the ohm, the
 volt and the farad. This 
committee, that also included 
James Clerk Maxwell and James Prescott Joule among its 
members, introduced the concept of a system of units for the first time. They recognised that 
they could describe electrical activity with only f
our equations chosen from the work of 
Amp‘re
, Coulomb, Joule, and Ohm.
 The State of Connecticut suggested the adoption of the metric system in the USA. The 
Secretary of the USA Treasury, Salmon P. Chase, invited Congress to attend:
 'to the importance of É 
a uniform nomenclature of weights, measures and coins to 
the commerce of the world
'.   Metrication timeline
 110 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1862 A House of Commons Select Committee 
in the UK 
rejected a suggestion that there should be 
an amalgamation of the decimal system with the English units of measure. This
 was rejected 
on the grounds of expense, as it would have cost just as much to do this, as it would cost to 
fully adopt the metric system but without offering equal gains.
 When they finished their deliberations, they released a 
'Report of the Select Commit
tee 
appointed to consider the practicality of adopting a simple and uniform system of weights 
and measures
'. This House of Commons Select Committee unanimously recommended the 
adoption of metric units for all public administration in the UK. 
Their report i
ncluded the 
line:
 É no nation which has adopted the metric system has failed to derive the greatest 
benefit from such adoption, or, after adoption has shown any desire to abandon it.
 Brazil, Mexico, and Uruguay converted to metric measures.
 1863 An Act of 
Congress founded the National Academy of Sciences of the USA. In its first report 
the President of the Academy wrote:
 The discussions in the body of this committee were strongly in favor of the 
adoption of the French metrical system.
 The USA was represente
d at two important international weights and measures congresses.
 " The International Statistical Congress, meeting in Berlin, declared that uniformity in 
weights and measures was of the highest importance particularly for international 
commerce.
 " The Postal 
Congress, held in Paris, adopted the metric system for international postal 
service.
 Argentina and Sicily converted to metric measures.
 In 
'The Normal: or, Methods of Teaching the Common Branches, Orthoepy, Orthography, 
Grammar, Geography, Arithmetic and E
locution
' Alfred Holbrook writes:
 The separatrix 
(decimal marker)
 is the most important character used in decimals, 
and no pains should be spared to impress this on the minds of pupils.
 Italy converted to metric measures.
 1863 July 1
 In the UK, a Bill for 
a compulsory change to the metric system was approved by 110 to 75 
votes. Speakers argued many of the points we hear today. On the one hand supporters argued 
its logic and simplicity, savings in time and money, advantages to trade and education. 
Opponents 
stressed the undesirability of following the precedent of France and the problems 
of conversion for the uneducated and disadvantaged. However no specific cut
-off dates were 
proposed
 and there was no provision for deprecating the old pre
-metric unit names
 and removing them from laws and statutes
. 1863 September 30
 Sir John Herschell delivered and published a highly influential lecture that belittled the 
'French Metrical System
' and promoted an alternative of his own devising that was based on 
idea that the E
arth
's quadrant was 500
 500
 000 inches exactly. This lecture became a major 
reference in Charles Davies
' book, 
'The Metric System Considered With Reference To Its 
Introduction Into The United States
' A. S. Barnes and Company New York 1871.
   Metrication timeline
 111 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 To put Sir John 
Herschell
's contribution in context it should be noted that he was a supporter 
of many ideas in measurement such as those of no less a personage than the Astronomer 
Royal for Scotland, Charles Piazzi Smyth.
 Smyth was a pupil of Sir John Herschell and, like Herschell, he objected to the use of the 
metric system and this may account for some of the extraordinary theories he later proposed. 
I quote from: 
http://www.adam.com.au/bstett/PaPyramids13.htm
 : Finding that one of the casing stones of the Great Pyramid was approximately 25 
inches, equal to (a) cubit, Smyth decided that the inch (one twenty
-fifth of a cubit 
and approximately one 10 millionth part
 of the Earth
's polar radius) must have 
been the divine unit of length. When it was discovered that the original casing 
stone was a bit over 25 inches (25.025 in fact), Smyth proposed that the 
'Pyramid 
inch
' of 1.001 was the actual divine unit (the British
 unit presumably got worn 
down a bit in the pocket of one of the Lost Tribesmen).
 Of course it did serve to prove that the British measurement system was divinely 
inspired, which was one in the eye for those nasty French. Smyth used the pyramid 
inch and va
rious other measurements made at the Great Pyramid to calculate the 
density of the Earth, its population and, for all we know, the winner of the third at 
Ascot.
 1864 The British House of Lords debated a Bill to permit the use of metric weights and measures
 in trade. Parliament passed the Bill and this became the Metric Weights and Measures Act 
1864 (27 and 28 Victoria, c. 117). The Act (which contained only three clauses) only applied to 
trade 
'contracts and dealings
'; the Metric Weights and Measures Act di
d not legalise the use 
of metric units in day
-to-day trade. This Act catalogued all the metric units as they existed at 
the time and authorized these equivalents:
 " 1 metre= 1 yard 0 feet 3
&
3708 inches
 " 1 kilogram 2 lbs 3oz 4
&
3830 drams = 15432
&
3487 grains
 " 1 are = 119
&
6033 square yards
 " 1 litre = 1
&
76077 pints
 In the Act other metric weights were catalogued in the appropriate imperial units in cwt, qtr, 
st, lb, oz, and dr. It was clear from the way the Act was worded that the legal drafters thought 
that the met
ric system was much simpler than the old pre
-metric measures; and drafted it in 
a way that, in itself, was a good advertisement for the metric system.
 In the USA, Connecticut passed laws that provided for the teaching the metric system in all 
the schools o
f that State.
 In the USA, the state legislature of New Hampshire urged the federal Congress to adopt a 
decimal system of weights and measures nationally.
 Charles Darwin received the Royal Society
's Copley Medal but his book, 
'On the Origin of 
Species
' was 
controversially excluded from the citation. However, a speech given to the Royal 
Society at the time affirms: 
'it is with that work that the public É will naturally recollect the 
honour
'. Basing his theories on John Taylor
's book, 
The Great Pyramid
 (see 18
59 above), Charles 
Piazzi Smyth published another book based on the idea that the design of the great pyramid 
of Giza held measuring secrets. In books such as 
Our Inheritance in the Great Pyramid
 and 
The Great Pyramid: Its Secrets and Mysteries Revealed 
Smyth claimed to have discovered 
the exact length of the 
'pyramid inch
' used by the pyramid builders. Based on his discovery 
he then calculated exact sizes for the 
'pyramid pint
', the 
'sacred cubit
', and for 
'pyramid 
temperatures
'! As Smyth
's 'pyramid inch
' Ñ according to his calculation 
Ñ was exactly equal 
  Metrication timeline
 112 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 to 1.001 British inches, it followed (at least in Smyth
's mind) that the British were the 
inheritors of this sacred measuring methods incorporated in the structure of the great 
pyramid at Giza.
 The wikipe
dia web page  
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Piazzi_Smyth#Pyramidological_researches
 (viewed 
on 2008
-07-18)says:
 Smyth claimed, and presumably believed, t
hat the pyramid inch was a God
-given 
measure handed down through the centuries from the time of Israel, and that the 
architects of the pyramid could only have been directed by the hand of God. To 
support this Smyth said that, in measuring the pyramid, he f
ound the number of 
inches in the perimeter of the base equalled one thousand times the number of days 
in a year, and found a numeric relationship between the height of the pyramid in 
inches to the distance from Earth to the Sun, measured in statute miles.
 In a recent journal article, 
The Battle of the Standards: Great Pyramid Metrology and 
British Identity 1859
-1890 
(The Historian, Vol. 65, 2003) Eric Michael Reisenauer wrtites:
 The current clash over the euro is something of a distant echo of a controversy
 from the latter half of the nineteenth century. This dispute centered around the 
curious and remarkable theory of Great Pyramid metrology (the study of weights 
and measures). Like its modern counterpart, the debate involved the potential 
ousting of a trad
itional British system in favor of a Continental scheme
--in this 
case British imperial weights and measures for the French metric system. É
 The process of identity formation found in the Great Pyramid theory operated in 
two ways. One involved the incitemen
t of fear in response to a foreign system 
seeking to challenge and displace a national tradition
--the quintessential Other. 
While important, however, simply vilifying the Other is not enough. A nation
's identity is also validated through its own merits and
, if possible, with the sanction 
of God. The second method did this by asserting and demonstrating an inherent 
superiority, based in both science and religion, of the traditional system over its 
potential rival. É
 Great Pyramid metrology consisted of two d
istinct but related notions: first, that 
the Great Pyramid of Egypt at Gizeh was not built as a tomb for the pharaohs but 
as a storehouse for a divinely
-inspired metrological system, and second, that the 
modern British people, indeed the whole 
'Anglo
-Saxon
 race,
' had inherited these 
same standards, virtually unaltered for thousands of years, as a racial patrimony 
in their own system of weights and measures. Great Pyramid metrologists 
contended that the base unit used to construct the monument was the Hebrew
 'sacred cubit
' composed of twenty
-five so
-called 
'pyramid inches.
' The pyramid 
inch, they went on, was virtually identical (save 1/1000th part) to the modern 
British inch. Britain had therefore inherited a system of weights and measures far 
older, far mor
e sacred, and, emanating as it did from the mind of God, far more 
scientific than any other metrological system on earth. É Great Pyramid 
metrology worked its way into the pages of mainstream periodicals, was debated 
in scientific and religious journals, c
aused conflict and controversy in British 
learned societies, inspired the founding of an institute and journal in the United 
States, attracted the attention of some of the most respected men of the age, and 
helped delay the introduction of the metric syste
m into the English
-speaking world.
 1865 July 27
 USA Senator Charles Sumner, in his concluding remarks about the Kassen Act to introduce 
the metric system into the USA, had this to say before the Senate passed the Bill that became 
the Metric Act of 1866:
   Metrication timeline
 113 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 By these enactments, the metric system will be presented to the American people, 
and will become an approved instrument of commerce. It will not be forced into 
use, but will be left for the present to its own intrinsic merits. Meanwhile it must be 
taught in 
schools. Our arithmetics must explain it. They who have already passed a 
certain period of life may not adopt it; but the rising generation will embrace it 
and ever afterward number it among the choicest possessions of an advanced 
civilization.
 Although th
e Kassen Act began as a measure to make the use of the metric system 
compulsory, in the course of debate, it was amended to become an Act that simply authorized 
the use of the metric system.
 1866 July 28
 President Andrew Johnson signed The Kassen Act (codi
fied as 15 USC 204 et seq.) into law. 
This Act defined the meter in terms of the inch, 1 meter = 39.37 inches. 
'Sec. 204. Metric 
system
' authorized:
 It shall be lawful throughout the United States of America to employ the weights 
and measures of the metric
 system; and no contract or dealing, or pleading in any 
court, shall be deemed invalid or liable to objection because the weights or 
measures expressed or referred to therein are weights or measures of the metric 
system.
 This Act made it lawful throughout 
the USA 
'to employ the weights and measures of the 
metric system
'. This law also directed the Secretary of the Treasury to furnish each State 
with
, one set of standard weights and measures of the metric system.
 Further provisions specified that no contract
 dealing, or court proceeding could be deemed 
invalid or liable to objection because of the use of metric denominations. They also passed a 
bill directing the USA Postmaster General to furnish postal balances denominated in grams 
to all post offices exchan
ging mail with foreign countries.
 The effect of these acts of the USA Congress was to make the use of the metric system legal in 
the USA, but it was not made obligatory. When Congress authorised the use of the metric 
system they also supplied each state wi
th a set of standard metric weights and measures and 
they made it practical for the states to follow the federal lead. Brass metric standards were 
made and these were distributed to each of the states.
 1867 The International Geodetic Association, who are 
concerned with precise measurements of the 
Earth
's surface, recommended the international use of the metric system in geodetic work, 
and advocated the construction of a new, more precise, prototype metre (differing as little as 
possible from the M‘tre des 
Archives) to be available for international use, under the 
supervision of an international bureau.
 Prussia converted to metric measures.
 1868 Nelson C. Hawks (1841/1929) of California redefined the printer
's point to exactly 
0.0138
 inches by rounding it do
wn to avoid the recurring 8s that occur when you define a 
printer
's point
 as exactly 1/72 of an Imperial inch (1/72 = 0.013
 888 888 É). In doing so 
Hawks 
Ñ probably inadvertently 
Ñ redefined the inch as about 0.9936
 Imperial inches 
(25.237
 44 millimetres i
nstead of about 25.4
 millimetres). Hawks printing 
point
 was now 
only approximately 1/72 of the Imperial inch used in the USA at that time. The Association of 
  Metrication timeline
 114 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Typefounders of the United States convention in Saratoga officially adopted Hawks
's point 
system a
s a national standard in 1868.
 When computer programmers first 
encountered
 all of this old printers jargon they (usually as 
individuals and within organisations) tried to adapt it to modern computers. Some chose to 
use the fraction 1/72 and to base their 
point
 on that value without knowing that this applied 
to various old pre
-metric inches; others chose the imperial inch as their standard and 
modified the fraction 1/72 a little to make it fit. Needless to say we now have a choice of old 
pre
-metric points th
at look almost post
-modern in their retrofitted construction. Here are the 
main ones available today 
Ñ with their approximate value in whole micrometres:
 " 1 point (ATA) = 0.3514598 mm = 0.0138366 inch
 o ' 351 micrometres
 " 1 point (Didot) = 0.3759 mm = 1/72 Fre
nch Royal inch (27.07 mm) = about 1/68 in.
 o ' 376 micrometres
 " 1 point (l
'Imprimerie nationale, IN) = 0.4 mm
 o = 400 micrometres
 " 1 point (Postscript) = 0.3527777778 mm = 1/72 inch
 o ' 353 micrometres
 " 1 point (TeX) = 0.3514598035 mm = 1/72.27 inch
 o ' 351 micrometr
es " 1 point (Truchet) = 0.188 mm
 o ' 188 micrometres
 1870 Just a few months before the fall of the Empire, Napoleon
 III gave approval for the 
installation of an astrophysical observatory at the Pavillon de Breteuil, naming Dr
 Jules 
Janssen as Director.
 During
 the siege of Paris as part of the Franco
-Prussian war, the Pavillon de Breteuil was 
seriously damaged by shells aimed, by the French army, at a Prussian battery installed on the 
hill just above the Pavillon. The stables and outbuildings in the courtyard w
ere completely 
demolished but the servants quarters in the Petit Pavillon just to the south of the main 
building were untouched.
 1871 When the German Empire formed out of several smaller states, it made the metric system 
compulsory.
 Austria adopted the met
ric system.
 Britain almost became a metric country on July 26 when the government lost the Bill to make 
metric compulsory after two years, by only 82 votes to 77 votes. An argument that might have 
influenced opponents was a plea that Britain would be:
 '... letting down America and our colonies
' who had harmonised their systems with 
those of Britain.
 At that time the American Congress had emulated Britain by allowing contracts that used 
metric units (see 1866).
 Use of the metric system was legalised by an Ac
t of Parliament in Canada.
   Metrication timeline
 115 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 As a reaction to the acceptance of the metric system for trade by Congress in 1866, the 
University Convocation of the State of New York published an anti
-metric book to counter 
this trend toward metrication. 
'The Metric System 
Considered With Reference To Its 
Introduction Into The United States
' by Charles Davies LL. D. was published by A. S. Barnes 
and Company in New York. As Davies was Chairman of the Committee on Coins, Weights 
and Measures of the University Convocation of th
e State of New York, this book had 
considerable influence in the USA. This first resolution of their report read:
 1. Resolved. That the subject of changing our entire system of weights and 
measures and substituting therefor the Metric System of France, is 
too grave and 
too important to be acted upon without a very full and careful examination of all 
its bearings and all its consequences.
 Probably their major achievement was 
producing 
confusion 
through obfuscation 
as they 
promoted both the pro
-metric support
 of John Quincy Adams and the anti
-metric ideas of 
John Herschell (see 1863 September 30 above) together with a mish
-mash of ideas of their 
own.
 1872 The French Government convened an International Commission to meet in Paris. Called the 
International Comm
ission of the Metre, they became the forerunner of the Conf”rence 
G”n”rale des Poids et Mesures (CGPM). At this meeting there were members from the USA 
and the Warden of the Standards attended from the UK.
 The International Commission of the Metre named th
e Metre of the Archives as the official 
definition of the metre and as the standard of length. The delegates were aware that the 
original measurements made to fix the length of the metre to the quadrant of the Earth in the 
1790s had not been exact, so they
 confirmed that the Metre of the Archives would be the 
international standard for the world.
 This Commission also advocated the construction of international metric standards that were 
to be kept by an international bureau located near Paris. They arranged
 for 30 copies to be 
made of the 
'Metre of the Archives
' as it embodied the official definition of the metre and the 
international standard of length. The Commission used the 
'Metre of the Archives
' as the 
reference to make the new prototype metres.
 1873 A British Association for the Advancement of Science (BAAS) committee proposed the 
centimetre, gram, and second as base units for a coherent system of metric units. This 
became known as the cgs system and it used prefixes from micro to mega. The BAAS 
commit
tee also proposed a unit of electrical resistance that was later named the ohm.
 The American Metrological Society was formed for the purpose of improving systems of 
weights, measures, and money in the USA.
 The term '
horsepower
' was used by James Watt
 to ma
rket his steam engine. It is likely that 
Watt decided on a figure at 33,000 foot pounds per minute (746 watt) based on the 
marketing principle of '
under promise and over deliver
' as it was well known at the time that 
few horses could achieve let alone main
tain that much effort for very long.
 1874 James Clerk Maxwell (1831/1879) and William Thomson (1824/1907) further formulated the 
requirement for a coherent system of units with base units and derived units. In 1874 the 
BAAS introduced the cgs system, a thr
ee dimensional coherent unit system based on 
centimetres, grams and seconds. The BAAS was also instrumental in having the range of 
metric prefixes expanded from micro to mega to express submultiples and multiples of units.
   Metrication timeline
 116 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Hungary adopted the metric system
. 1875 May 20
 A major international conference was held in Paris to discuss standards of measurement. 
Twenty nations attended but only seventeen nations signed the original 
Treaty of the metre
 during the final session of this conference. The nations that s
igned were: Argentina, Austria
-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Peru, Portugal, Russia, Spain, 
Sweden
-Norway, Switzerland, Turkey, the United States of America, and Venezuela.
 Greece, the Netherlands, and the UK attended the confe
rence but refrained from signing. The 
Hellenic Republic (Greece) signed the Metre Convention in 2001, the Netherlands in 1929, 
and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland signed the Metre Convention 
in 1884. Here is the official statement 
from the SI Brochure:
 Le Bureau international des poids et mesures (BIPM) a ”t” cr”” par la Convention 
du M‘tre sign”e ‹ Paris le 20 mai 1875 par dix
-sept …tats, lors de la derni‘re 
s”ance de la Conf”rence diplomatique du M‘tre.
 Notably the USA was one of 
the original signatories. Australia did not attend this first 
conference and did not sign the international agreement as they and all other Commonwealth 
countries were represented by the delegation from the United Kingdom. Australia did not 
sign the Treaty
 in its own right until 1947. This agreement is known as the 
'Convention du 
M‘tre
' or by its English name, the 
'Treaty of the metre
'. It is still current.
 The Treaty of the m
etre (Convention du M‘tre) is a treaty which gives authority to the 
General 
Conference on Weights and Measures (CGPM), the International Committee for 
Weights and Measures (CIPM) and the International Bureau of Weights and Measures 
(BIPM) to act in matters of world metrology, particularly concerning the demand for 
measurement stan
dards of ever increasing accuracy, range and diversity, and the need to 
demonstrate equivalence between national measurement standards.
 Representatives of seventeen nations signed the Convention du M‘tre in Paris in 1875. As 
well as founding the BIPM and l
aying down the way in which the activities of the BIPM 
should be financed and managed, the Metre Convention established a permanent 
organizational structure for member governments to act in common accord on all matters 
relating to units of measurement.
 The Convention of the Metre (Convention du M‘tre) is a treaty which gives authority to the 
General Conference on Weights and Measures (CGPM), the International Committee for 
Weights and Measures (CIPM) and the International Bureau of Weights and Measures 
(BIP
M) to act in matters of world metrology, particularly concerning the demand for 
measurement standards of ever increasing accuracy, range and diversity, and the need to 
demonstrate equivalence between national measurement standards.
 The United Kingdom was n
ot one of the signatories to the original 
'Treaty of the metre
' because Her Majesty
's Government declared that:
 ... they could not recommend to Parliament any expenditure connected with the 
metric system, which is not legalized in this country, nor in supp
ort of a permanent 
institution established in a foreign country for its encouragement. They have 
consequently declined to take part in the Convention or to contribute to the 
expenses of the new Metric Bureau, and have directed the Warden of the Standards 
to decline being appointed a member of the new International Committee or to 
take part in the direction of the new International Metric Bureau.
 'On the Science of Weighing and Measuring
' by H. W. Chisholm (Warden of the Standards), 
1877
 The Convention du 
M‘tre established a permanent organizational structure for member 
governments to act in common accord on all matters relating to units of measurement. It set 
  Metrication timeline
 117 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 in place the way in which international measurement activities should be financed and 
managed. The
 main decision was to set up three separate organisations: the Conf”rence 
G”n”rale des Poids et Mesures (CGPM), the Comit” International des Poids et Mesures 
(CIPM) and the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures (BIPM).
 The Convention du M‘tre is the ba
sis for the authority of the CGPM, CIPM, and BIPM to act 
in matters of international measurement. The BIPM operates under the supervision of the 
Comit” International des Poids et Mesures (CIPM) which itself comes under the authority of 
the Conf”rence G”n”r
ale des Poids et Mesures (CGPM). In order to ensure worldwide 
uniformity in units of measurement, the CIPM acts directly or submits proposals for sanction 
by the CGPM.
 Conf”rence G”n”rale des Poids et Mesures (CGPM)
 The CGPM consists of delegates from all 
the Member States of the Convention du M‘tre and 
they meet every four years.
 The Convention du M‘tre, known in English as the Treaty of the Metre, established the 
General Conference on Weights and Measures (Conf”rence G”n”rale des Poids et Mesures, 
CGPM) a
s a formal diplomatic organisation responsible for the maintenance of an 
international system of units in harmony with advances in science and industry. This 
organization uses the latest technical developments:
 " to improve the standards system through the c
hoice of the definition;
 " the method to experimentally realize the definition;
 " to transfer the standard to practical measurements.
 Comit” International des Poids et Mesures (CIPM)
 The CIPM consists of eighteen members each belonging to a different nation an
d it meets 
every year. The CIPM reports to the CGPM on the work it has accomplished in the previous 
four years and indicates the direction it intends to take in the next four. It is responsible for:
 " discussing and instigating the arrangements required to e
nsure the propagation and 
improvement of the International System of Units (SI);
 " confirming the results of new fundamental metrological determinations and the 
various scientific resolutions of international scope;
 " adopting the important decisions concernin
g the organisation and development of the 
BIPM.
 Bureau International des Poids et Mesures (BIPM)
 BIPM is financed jointly by the Member States of the Convention du M‘tre and operates 
under the exclusive supervision of the CIPM. BIPM
's task is to provide th
e basis for a single, 
coherent system of measurements throughout the world, traceable to the International 
System of Units (SI). This task takes many forms, from direct dissemination of units (in the 
case of mass and time), to coordination through internat
ional comparisons of national 
measurement standards (for length, electricity, radiometry and ionising radiation).
 The task of the BIPM is to ensure worldwide unification of physical measurements. It is 
responsible for:
 " establishing the fundamental standard
s and scales for measurement of the principal 
physical quantities and maintaining the international prototypes;
 " carrying out comparisons of national and international standards;
 " ensuring the coordination of corresponding measuring techniques;
   Metrication timeline
 118 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 " carrying out 
and coordinating determinations relating to the fundamental physical 
constants that are involved in the above
-mentioned activities.
 These three organisations, CGPM, CIPM, and BIPM, are particularly concerned about the 
demand for measurement standards of ev
er increasing accuracy, range and diversity, and the 
need to demonstrate equivalence between national measurement standards.
 In 1875 the Pavillon de Breteuil was still a wreck from the siege of Paris in 1870 and this was 
the condition of the buildings when
, in 1875, the French government offered the Pavillon de 
Breteuil to the Comit” International des Poids et Mesures (CIPM) for the establishment of 
the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures (BIPM). At the signing of the Convention du 
M‘tre and the found
ation of the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures (BIPM) in 1875, 
the Pavillon de Breteuil was already over two hundred years old. The CIPM agreed to accept 
the offer of the Pavillon de Breteuil as the site for the BIPM and work began to renovate the 
Pavillon and to construct a new laboratory building to house the instruments and equipment 
required by the BIPM. G Govi from Italy was appointed as Director of BIPM. He was Director 
from 1875 to 1877.
 The 1875 Convention du M‘tre, although it was modified 
slightly in 1921, remains the basis of 
all international agreement on units of measurement.
 Following the establishment of the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures (BIPM) in 
France various nations soon set up their own National Institutions for Measur
ement. 
Examples are the Physikalisch Technische Reichsanstalt in Germany (1887), the National 
Physical Laboratory (NPL) in Britain (1900) and the National Bureau of Standards in the 
United States (1901). These National Institutions for Measurement were fou
nded in response 
to the growing needs from academics, government, and industry for greater accuracy and 
increased precision for measurements of quantities such as capacity, force, length, mass, 
pressure, temperature, and time.
 1876 The original 
laboratories of the BIPM were begun at the Pavillon de Breteuil in the Parc de 
Saint
-Cloud. Construction took until 1878.
 1876 July
 Here, Sandford Fleming enters the scene. At 5:10 p.m. on a bright July day in 1876, 
in the country station of Bandoran, Irel
and, a balding figure with a salt
-and-pepper mattress
-stuffer of a beard, wearing a gentleman's formal frock coat, 
alighted from a horse
-drawn taxi 25 minutes before the scheduled arrival of the 
Londonderry train. At 5:35 p.m., nothing came. When Fleming c
hecked, he found 
that his Irish Railroad Travelers' Guide was mistaken. The train was to arrive at 
5:35 a.m. Fleming, chief engineer of the Canadian Pacific Railway, would be a 
prisoner for the night in Bandoran station. In those hours, a plan took form th
at 
would define the Decade of Time.
 This is an extract from an unknown reviewer of the book, 
Time Lord: the biography of Sir 
Sandford Fleming and the creation of Standard Time
 by Clark Blaise. This single event 
motivated Sandford Fleming on a mission to ra
tionalise time measurements into zones all 
around the world measured by 24 hour clocks.
 1877 J Pernet from Switzerland was appointed and he was Director of BIPM from 1877 to 1879.
   Metrication timeline
 119 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1878 The UK passed the Weights and Measures Act 1878. 
The yard was defined 
as the distance at 
62¡F between a pair of lines etched in gold plugs set in a bronze bar. This bronze bar was kept 
at the Standards department of the Board of Trade in London, together with the Imperial 
Standard Pound. The metric equivalents of these Imper
ial pound and yard standards are 
0.45359243 kg, and 0.9143992 m respectively. These legal measures were also the standards 
for all in the British Commonwealth of nations.
 The English, during the reign of Queen Victoria, reacted to the world shift toward me
trication 
by having the troy pound declared illegal, and by declaring that commercial trade would be 
carried out in these quantities: 56lb, 28lb, 14lb, 7lb, 4lb, 2lb, 1lb, 8oz, 4oz, 2oz, 1oz, 1/2oz, 
1/4oz, 2dr, 1dr. However this law had effect in some area
s but not in others, for example, 
butchers used the 
'butcher
's stone
' of 8 pounds until the 1950s. The butcher
's stone of 8 
pounds can be compared to the fruiterer
's stone of 14 pounds.
 In the USA, the Senate 
ratified 
'La Convention du M‘tre
' and President
 Rutherford R. Hayes 
proclaimed it
 on September 27.
 Note that t
he USA signed 
'La Convention du m‘tre
' in
 1875 
and ratified it in 1878; s
igning and ratification are two separate, but necessary, steps in the 
treaty process. 
At the same time, 
various Federal 
agencies responded unfavourably to the 
decision of Congress on the use of the metric system in government transactions and 
purchases. For example, the 
mint officially adopted the Troy pound as the basis for 
USA 
coins. See 
Weights and Measures Standards of 
the United States 
Ñ A brief history
 (1976) by 
Louis E. Barbrow and Lewis V. Judson (available from 
http://physics.nist.gov/Pubs/SP447/sp447.pdf
 ) J. K. Upton
, chief clerk of Treasury Department,
 wrote a report to Congress that was very 
favorable to metrication
. This was written as a reply to the US House of Representatives 
resolution of November 6, 1877, which read:
 Resolved, That the heads of the executive departments of the government be, and 
that
 they are hereby, requested to report to this House, at as early a date as 
practicable, what objections, if any, there are to making obligatory in all 
governmental transactions the metrical system of weights and measures, whose 
use has been authorized in t
he United States by act of Congress, and also how long 
a preliminary notice should be given before such obligatory use can be introduced 
without detriment to the public service; and that they are also requested to state 
what objections there are, if any, t
o making the metrical system obligatory in all 
transactions between individuals, and what is the earliest date that can be set for 
the obligatory use of the metrical system throughout the United States.
 J. K. Upton's report began:
 Sir: In compliance with y
our verbal request that I present to you, in writing, any 
suggestions that may occur to me in the matter of the proposed introduction into 
this country of the metric system of weights and measures, that the same may be 
transmitted to Congress with your rep
ly to the resolution of the House of 
Representatives dated November 6, 1877, I have the honor to submit the following:
 PRESENT STANDARDS.
 The necessity of uniform standards for measuring distances, weights, capacity, 
and values among people intimately asso
ciated is universally acknowledged, and 
the Constitution of this country has wisely given to Congress the power to fix these 
standards. This power has not been freely exercised, and consequently there is no 
uniform or authoritative standards of measurement
 throughout the country.
 See 
http://lamar.colostate.edu/~hillger/laws/upton
-1878
-03-06.html
 to view the complete 
report.
   Metrication timeline
 120 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1879 O J Broch from Norway was appointed as Director of 
BIPM. He was Director from 1879 to 
1889.
 Enthusiasm for the adoption of the metric system was at a high point 
in the USA. A 
monthly 
magazine called, "
THE METRIC REFORM
" was produced
 to achieve this
. On an eBay auction 
in 2010 one article from the 1879 maga
zine was described as:
 This wonderful, 8 page, illustrated magazine article presents the arguments for 
and against the adoption of the metric system of measures to be used in the United 
States. The article is very well
-written and thoroughly covers every a
spect of the 
Conversion Controversy. It seems from the tone of the article that a conversion to 
the Metric system in America was imminent in 1879 É
 1880 Most of Europe and South America legally adopted the metric system.
 1880s During the 1880s, the cgs 
units were applied in many areas of science and engineering. In 
use, the sizes of the coherent cgs units proved to be inconvenient, especially in the fields of 
electricity and magnetism. The BAAS and the International Electrical Congress approved a 
mutuall
y coherent set of practical units. Among these units were the ohm for electrical 
resistance, the volt for electromotive force, and the ampere for electric current.
 1881 The British Association for the Advancement of Science (BAAS) recommended definitions f
or 
five practical electrical metric units to the First International Electrical Congress in Paris; 
these were ampere, coulomb, farad, ohm, and volt.
 The first International Electrical Congress adopted the various BAAS recommendations on 
electrical units.
 The USA Congress required that sets of metric standards be distributed to State land grant 
colleges by the Treasury Department with a Joint Resolution.
 1883 The volcano, Krakatoa exploded killing an estimated 40
 000 people in Indonesia. As this was 
a global
 phenomenon, the Royal Society sought observations from the public and letters pour 
in from many nations describing the effects of Krakatoa in their regions.
 1884 The UK joined the Metric Convention by signing the International '
Convention du M‘tre
'. Deleg
ates from 27 nations met in Washington, D.C., for a Meridian Conference and they 
agreed on a plan developed by Sir Sandford Fleming, a Canadian railway planner and 
engineer, who had developed a comprehensive plan for worldwide standard time in the late 
187
0s. The need for a standard time system was particularly felt in the USA and Canada, 
where extensive railway routes passed through places that differed by several hours in local 
time.
 Fleming
's system uses 24 standard meridians of longitude 15¼ apart, star
ting with the prime 
meridian through Greenwich, England. The time is the same in each zone and forms the basis 
for international legal and scientific time.
   Metrication timeline
 121 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Local time varies from Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) by an integral number of hours; 
minutes and 
seconds are the same. This is basically the same system that we still all use 
everyday.
 At the Pavillon de Breteuil the laboratory building called the 
'Observatoire
' was opened.
 1887 In Germany they set up a national institution for measurement called the 
Physikalisch 
Technische Reichsanstalt.
 1889 J R Benoﬂt from France was appointed as Director of BIPM. He was Director from 1889 to 
1915.
 The London firm Johnson, Matthey & Co made a prototype metre in the shape of a modified 
X-shaped cross
-section. This 
then became the length standard for the whole world when it 
was adopted as the International Prototype Metre. It was a bar made of a platinum iridium 
alloy with lines inscribed at each end. The metre was defined as the distance between the two 
graduation l
ines at 0
 ¡C.
 Johnson, Matthey & Co also cast a prototype kilogram that became the international 
standard for mass. See details at 
http://www.npl.co.uk/server.php?show=ConWebDoc.2083
  The 1s
t CGPM approved new international prototypes for the metre and the kilogram and the 
astronomical second as the unit of time. The metre, kilogram and second now formed a 
coherent system based on these three units (metre
-kilogram
-second) that became known as
 the mks system.
 The CGPM formally required that the international prototypes be deposited at the Pavillon de 
Breteuil.
 Each member country of the Convention du M‘tre received two copies of the standard with 
calibration reports relating them to the Interna
tional Prototype Metre. The copies of the 
length standard were sent to the national standards laboratories of the member nations. They 
were accurate, but not identical, replicas of the prototype metre. Each copy was calibrated, by 
optical comparison, again
st the prototype for use as a national standard. As signatories of the 
Treaty of the Metre, the USA received a prototype metre and kilogram as measurement 
standards. A prototype metre and a prototype kilogram were taken to Washington and 
accepted by Presid
ent Harrison at the White House; they were then placed in the vault of the 
Treasury Department. Prototype 
metre number
 27 served as the USA
 primary standard from 
1889 to 1960. During that period it was returned to the BIPM for re
-comparison four times 
so t
hat its length was known in terms of the length of the international prototype. Prototype 
metre number
 27 is now on exhibit in the NIST Museum at Gaithersburg, Maryland.
 A serious problem with an International Prototype Metre standard was that there was no
 method to detect a change in its value due to ageing or misuse. Consequently, it was not 
possible to state the accuracy or stability of the prototype metre, although calibration 
uncertainties of the copy metres can be assigned.
 In 1889, the year of Joule
's death, the British Association for the Advancement of Science 
(BAAS) suggested a new name for the work and energy unit to honor the name of James 
Prescott Joule and his pioneering work on electricity and energy. The BAAS promoted this 
idea actively and t
he Second Congress of the International Electrical Conference (IEC) added 
the joule as the international unit of work and energy, the watt as a unit of power, and a unit 
of inductance that was later given the name henry. These units were adopted by the IEC
 as 
internationally agreed units.
 The UK passed the Weights and Measures Act 1889.
   Metrication timeline
 122 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1890 The United States officially received Metre No. 27 and Kilogram No. 20 from the CGPM.
 1891 The 1801 mathematical tables of Borda and Delambre had become scarce and, by now, 
greater accuracy was required in astronomy and geodesy. Accordingly the French 
government issued an eight
-figure table containing (besides logarithms of numbers to 
120,000) l
og sines and tangents for every centesimal (hundredth) of the quadrant. This book 
was called, 
'Service geographique de l
'armee: Tables des logarithmes a huit decimates, 
publiees par ordre du ministre de la guerre
' (Paris, Imprimerie Nationale, 1891). These
 tables are still in use where eight
-figure accuracy is required.
 1892 Albert Michelson (1852/1931) developed an interferometer and used it to determine the 
length of the International Prototype metre in terms of the cadmium red line wavelength. He 
had ear
lier conducted experiments that showed that the red spectral line of natural cadmium 
was exceptionally coherent. His measurements gave the metre a value of 1,553,164.13 times 
the wavelength of the red spectral line of cadmium at 760 mm of atmospheric press
ure at 15 
¡C.
 His development of the interferometer inspired Michelson to suggest the idea you could use 
light radiation as a standard of length rather than a physical prototype. Using light had many 
advantages, such as the facts that the international sta
ndard of length could be reproduced 
simultaneously in many places, and that the standard would not deteriorate over time.
 1893 The Congress of the USA defeated a measure to adopt the metric system.
 The prototype metre and a prototype kilogram received by t
he USA from the CGPM were 
declared the nation
's 'fundamental standards
' by an administrative action of Thomas C. 
Mendenhall, Superintendent of Weights and Measures. The USA Secretary of the Treasury 
then sanctioned this decision and the metric prototypes w
ere legally declared to be the 
'fundamental standards of length and mass
' for the USA.
 From 1893, following the Mendenhall Order, the old measures such as yards and pounds 
were officially defined in terms of the international metric system by the USA. The 
USA yard 
was defined in the Mendenhall Order as:
 1 yard = 3600/3937 metre (approximately 0.914
 401
 83 metre) and 1 inch = 
25.400
 050
 8 millimetres.
 This yard is still the basis for the statute foot in the USA.
 From 1893 the USA used prototype metre No. 27 
that they had received from the BIPM in 
1889. Metre No. 27 served as the standard of length of the USA until 1960.
 Michelson standardised the measurement of the metre
 1894 The USA Congress establishes an enquiry to study the adoption of the international m
etric 
system. The Congress passes a Bill to adopt the metric system; then sent the Bill to a 
committee 
Ñ it
's still there.
 However, in the same year Congress passed a law defining and establishing metric units for 
electrical measurement. As these units wer
e based on the metric system the USA has used 
these metric units every day for all electrical purposes since 1894.
   Metrication timeline
 123 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Following a Royal Society lecture William Ramsay agrees with Lord Rayleigh that they would 
research atmospheric gases. In a research tour
-de-force they discovered argon, helium, neon, 
krypton and xenon between q894 and 1898.
 1895 In the UK, a House of Commons Select Committee was 
appointed to enquire into whether 
any and what changes in the present system of weights and measures should be adopt
ed.
 This Select Committee recommended immediate legalisation of metric units for all purposes. 
They recommended that the metric system become compulsory after 2
 years (
'That after a 
lapse of two years the metrical system be rendered compulsory by Act of Pa
rliament
'), and 
that the metric system be taught in elementary schools.
 In the USA a resolution to establish a commission to study and report on the feasibility of 
metric adoption was passed by the House of Representatives. By mistake, the resolution was 
recorded as requiring the concurrence of the Senate in order to be put into effect. 
Consequently, the commission was never formally organized.
 The Constitution of the State of Utah, in Article X, Section 11, required that, 
The Metric 
System shall be taught 
in the public schools of the State
, but this section of the constitution 
was later repealed.
 1896 The UK passed the Weights and Measures (Metric System) Act 
Ñ 'An Act to legalise the use 
of weights and measures of the metric system.
' This legalised the met
ric system for all 
purposes, but did not make it compulsory. This Act standardised the Imperial gallon by 
defining it in terms of the cubic decimetre. This Act permitted the use of metric weights and 
measures in trade, and required the Board of Trade to in
clude metric de
nominations among 
its standards.
 1897 The UK legalised the metric system for use in all parts of life.
 Vega. H. Schubert published 
'Funfstellige Tafeln and Gegentafeln
' in Leipzig. This contained 
tables for the conversion of angles in sexage
simals (based on 60s) into centesimals (based on 
the decimal 100s).
 1897 August 6
 A comprehensive debate in the British Parliament concluded by legalising the use of metric 
for all purposes in 
'An Act to legalize the use of weights and measures of the metr
ic system
, 60 and 61 Victoria, c. 46
'. There were no contrary votes. This Act permitted the use of metric 
weights and measures in all trade, and it required the Board of Trade to include metric 
denominations among its standards. The UK Imperial yard was me
asured against the 
international standard metre and found to be:
 1 yard = 0.914
 399 metre, or 1 inch = 25.399
 972 mm
 This is the Act of Parliament that most references indicate to be the beginning of metrication 
in the UK.
 1900 In the UK the National 
Physical Laboratory (NPL) was begun as a government
-funded body 
managed by fellows of the Royal Society and representatives from industry.
 Inevitably, there was conflict between scientific research and commercial activity at NPL.
   Metrication timeline
 124 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 The government
's civil ser
vants were unsympathetic to fundamental science and were 
convinced that scientific research should in the long run be financially self
-supporting.
 1901 Giovanni Giorgi (1871/1950) showed that it was possible to combine the mechanical units of 
the 
metre
-kilogram
-second system with the practical electric units to form a single coherent 
four
-dimensional system. Giorgi pointed out that to do this, we would need a fourth electrical 
unit, such as the ampere or the ohm, coupled to a rewriting of the basic
 electromagnetism 
equations.
 Giovanni Giorgi was an Italian physicist who studied civil engineering at the Institute of 
Technology in Rome and later taught at the University of Rome. He also held appointments 
at the universities of Cagliari and Palermo and
 at the Royal Institute for Higher Mathematics. 
In addition to his work on units, Giorgi also contributed to the development of hydroelectric 
installations, electric distribution networks, and tramways.
 Giorgi
's system of measurement was first published in
 1901 and later it became known as the 
mksA system because its basic units were t
he metre, kilogram, second and a
mpere. In 1960 
the General Conference of Weights and Measures endorsed Giorgi
's system, after 
modification, as the 
Syst‘me International d
'Unit
”s or International System of 
Units (SI).
 The Australian Commonwealth Constitution of 1901, Section 51(XV) gave the power to make 
laws in respect of weights and measures for the Commonwealth of Australia. During the life 
of the first Australian Parliament 
after Federation, the adoption of the metric units of weights 
and measures was considered but not adopted when it was moved that Australia should 
investigate the adoption of the metric system.
 The USA established the National Bureau of Standards.
 1902 A Co
ngressional Bill to make the Metric System mandatory within the Federal Government 
of the USA was defeated.
 1904 The British House of Lords unanimously voted to make metric compulsory after two years. 
The Government said they would not obstruct the proposa
l, but the Bill was never adopted in 
the House of Commons.
 During this debate, an opponent of the metric system, Lord Lansdowne, stated:
 Considering this question with due attention to the units in actual use and to their 
relations, the British system of w
eights and measures is simpler and more uniform 
than any other system in the world. No traditional system of weights and 
measures has ever, in fact, been ousted by the metric system.
 In the UK, a White Paper was published that stated that the British colon
ies (such as 
Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and South Africa) preferred the metric system to Imperial 
measures.
 The UK passed the Weights and Measures Act 1904.
 1905 The National Bureau of Standards of the USA sponsored the first meeting of the National 
Conference on Weights and Measures.
   Metrication timeline
 125 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1906 Although the Philippines was under US occupation from 1899 to 1941, the use of the metric 
system was legalised in 1906, and was actively promoted from 1973.
 1907 Two more debates in the British Houses of Parliament f
ailed to have the metric system 
introduced. One of the major arguments against the metric system was that 
'an agricultural 
labourer would never ask for 0.56825 of a litre of beer
'. The vote against making the metric 
system compulsory rose to 150 votes to 1
18 votes.
 In the USA, following a refusal by the Committee on Coinage, Weights, and Measures to 
report favorably on a metric bill, promotional efforts in favor of the metric system died down 
until the end of World War I.
 1908 The Australian Commonwealth Go
vernment established the Commonwealth Laboratories as 
part of the Department of Trade and Customs. They were to provide laboratory services to 
support excise collection and impose tariffs on imported goods but their tasks soon also 
included meat inspection
, food analysis and other work.
 1908 July 29
 The imperial ambassador of China after a visit the International Bureau of Weights and 
Measures at Sevres supported a law in China that retained traditional measures but redefined 
these in terms of the units of 
the metric system, the central frame of reference being the Paris 
metre and that wherever possible, the decimal system would also be simultaneously 
introduced.
 1911 One of the leading antagonists of metric reform in the UK, Sir Frederick Bramwell, wrote:
 It is in the interest of British industry to retain British weights and measures 
because they are the best and most practical. Moreover, industrialists from the 
metric countries have been encountering difficulties in the Far Eastern market 
where the British
 weights and measures had gained earlier acceptance, and this 
constitutes an advantage that helps our merchants and industrialists in retaining 
their hold on those regions.
 Frederick Bramwell
's view was put more tersely by the Australian journal 
The Survey
or of 
Sydney:
 Sir Frederick Bramwell is wont to assert that we enjoy an advantage over 
foreigners because we can readily grasp their metric measures while they will 
never be able to understand ours. (1911 January 31).
 1915 E Guillaume from Switzerland was 
appointed as Director of BIPM. He was Director from 
1915 to 1936
 1916 December 16
 A group of businessmen, educators, and consumers met to form the American Metric 
Association. This is now the United States Metric Association (USMA). Their purpose was to 
advocate the adoption of the metric system in USA commerce and education. They held their 
first meeting as a separate part of the American Association for the Advancement of Science 
  Metrication timeline
 126 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 (AAAS). USMA became an affiliate of AAAS and has continued this affiliation 
with AAAS to 
this day.
 The main speaker at the first meeting was Madam Maria Montessori, the Italian originator of 
the Montessori teaching methods that are still in use throughout the world. She explained 
how the metric system was used in Italy and stated:
 É the advantage of the metric system over other systems is shown by its simplicity 
and the ease which it gives to accomplishing all research work.
 1918 The USA War Department issued a General Order (No. 1) that stated:
 The metric system has been adopted f
or use in France for all firing data for 
artillery and machine guns, in the preparation of operation orders, and in map 
construction. Artillery and machine gun material for service abroad is being 
graduated accordingly. Instruction in the metric system wil
l be given to all 
concerned.
 1921 After a slight revision of the Convention du M‘tre by the 6th CGPM in 1921, the scope and 
responsibilities of the BIPM was extended to other fields in physics but it remains the basis of 
all international agreement on unit
s of measurement. There are now fifty
-one Member 
States, including all the major industrialized countries.
 A. Perard began a systematic study of the radiations of cadmium, helium, krypton, mercury, 
neon, thallium, and zinc to find which might prove best fo
r defining lengths. From this time, 
the Michelson interferometer was in regular use at BIPM for measuring length.
 Albert Einstein was elected to Fellowship of the Royal Society after astronomers had 
confirmed his general relativity theory to the Royal Soci
ety using observations made during a 
total eclipse of the Sun of 1919.
 1922 In the UK, the National Physical Laboratory made comparisons between the Imperial 
Standard Yard and the International Metre, which yielded differing values for the inch over 
the ye
ars. The 1922 value of 25.399
 956 millimetres per inch was arbitrarily selected for use 
in calibrating the most precise measuring devices.
 1923 Japan commenced conversion to the metric system.
 1926 The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) 
was established in Australia. 
Among its activities related to standards and measurement were the 
'testing and 
standardisation of scientific apparatus and other instruments
'. China became officially metric.
 The UK passed the Weights and Measures Act 1926.
 1927 CIPM set up the Comit” Consultatif d
'Electricit” (CCE) and gave BIPM the additional 
responsibility for measurements and standards of electricity. Following this move the Giorgi 
  Metrication timeline
 127 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 proposal was thoroughly discussed by the IEC, the IUPAP, and other internat
ional 
organizations.
 Harvard University commissioned an engineer, Arthur Kennelly, to go to Europe to 
observe
 the progress the acceptance of the decimal metric system in those countries that had adopted 
it. In his report he wrote:
 Since the year 1800, a 
wonderful sociological phenomenon has presented itself in 
Continental Europe. Setting aside Soviet Russia and Turkey, a group of more than 
thirty countries, with an aggregate population today exceeding three hundred 
millions, have, one after another, offic
ially adopted the metric system to the 
abolition of their respective national systems. The change has been voluntary.
 1929 The Pavillon de Breteuil laboratories were enlarged, mostly by extensions to the 
Observatoire. This was funded by a gift from the Roc
kefeller Foundation.
 1932 James Chadwick published his results about his detection the neutron with the Royal Society. 
Bombardment of uranium with neutrons then led to the concept of nuclear energy.
 1935 J. E. Sears, from the United Kingdom, proposed that 
the ampere be selected as the base unit 
for electricity, and that this be defined in terms of the force per unit length between two long 
parallel wires. The Consultative Committee for Electricity (CCE) accepted this proposal 
unanimously and then it was sub
sequently approved by the CIPM and the CGPM.
 1936 A P”rard from France was appointed as Director of BIPM. He was Director from 1936 to 
1951.
 Sigmund Freud was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society.
 Official investigations in China revealed:
 " 53 different sizes for the 
chi
 varying from 200
 millimetres to 1250
 millimetres;
 " 36 different 
tsin
 ranging from 300 grams to 2500 grams; and
 " 32 different sizes of the 
cheng
, between 500 millilitres and 8 litres.
 The UK passed the Weights and Measures Act 1
936. 1937 BIPM was given the responsibility for measurements and standards of photometry.
 A bill to fix the standards according to the metric system was considered and recommended 
by the Committee on Coinage, Weights, and Measures in the USA but the bill w
as never 
enacted.
 1938 The Australian Government Cabinet approved the establishment of the National Standards 
Laboratory (NSL), to be built on a site in the grounds of the University of Sydney.
   Metrication timeline
 128 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1939 In the UK the Donaldson Committee proposed a unified Nati
onal Grid based on the metric 
system as common framework for Ordnance Survey mapping.
 After extensive study of the Giorgi system the Comit” Consultatif d
'Electricit” (CCE) 
proposed the adoption of a system based on the metre, kilogram, second and ampere. T
his 
was in contrast to the centimetre, gram, second system formerly proposed by the BAAS in 
1873.
 1940 The Australian National Standards Laboratory (NSL) staff began work in the grounds of 
Sydney University.
 1945 The USA General MacArthur, as leader of the
 occupation army, urged Japan to actively 
complete the metrication efforts that they had begun in 1868 and 1923.
 1946 The Giorgi proposal was further discussed by the Comit” Consultatif d
'Electricit” (CCE), the 
International Electrotechnical Commission (IE
C), and the International Union of Pure and 
Applied Physics (IUPAP) and other international organizations; it was then adopted by the 
CIPM. The system adopted was a four
-dimensional system based on the metre, kilogram, 
second, and ampere and this became kn
own and widely used as the mksA system.
 The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) was founded in Geneva in 1946. On 
a global scale standardization is coordinated by the ISO and it is concerned with global 
standardization in all technical and
 non
-technical fields except electrical and electronic 
engineering, which is the responsibility of the International Electrotechnical Commission 
(IEC).
 The ISO is a specialized international organization that has a membership that includes more 
than 80 cou
ntries, and each member is the national body 
'most representative of 
standardization in its country.
' In Australia ISO is represented by Standards Australia; in the 
UK, it is the British Standards Institution (BSI); and in the USA, it is the American Natio
nal 
Standards Institute (ANSI).
 Standardization affects many of the activities of our life each day. Standardization not only 
affects units of measurement, it is also concerned with specifications for machine parts, 
materials, surfaces, printing, drawing, 
processes, tools, methods of testing, and machines.
 The ISO establishes international 
'technical committees
' to investigate and resolve specific 
issues of standardization and publishes the results as 
'International Standards
'. Because in 
most technical fie
lds there are continuous developments the ISO standards are reviewed, 
and, if necessary, revised, every five years.
 1947 Australia became a signatory to the international treaty called The Convention of the Metre 
(Convention du M‘tre
). This law had the eff
ect that metric units were made legal for use in 
Australia.
 1948 The CIPM officially adopted the mksA practical system of absolute electrical units to take 
effect January 1, 1948. Rapid advances in science and technology in the 19th and 20th 
centuries had 
fostered the development of several overlapping systems of units of 
  Metrication timeline
 129 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 measurements as scientists improvised to meet the practical needs of their disciplines. In 
summary the various metric systems developed by these steps.
 " Wilkins
' proposal for a 
universal 
measure
 of 1668
 " French metric system of the 1790s.
 " The cgs metric system of about 1872. The cgs system eventually split into an 
electrostatic cgs system and a magnetic cgs system.
 " The metric system of the 
'Treaty du Metre
' in 1885.
 " Giorgi
's mksA metric sys
tem proposal of 1901.
 " In 1948, Giorgi
's mksA system was formally adopted and the other metric systems were 
deprecated. It was still sometimes called by its old name, the metre
-kilogram
-second
-ampere, or mksA system.
 Following an international inquiry by th
e BIPM the CGPM instructed the CIPM:
 " to study the establishment of a complete set of rules for units of measurement;
 " to find out for this purpose, by official enquiry, the opinion prevailing in scientific, 
technical and educational circles in all countries
; " to make recommendations on the establishment of a practical system of units of 
measurement suitable for adoption by all signatories to the Convention du M‘tre.
 The CGPM also laid down general principles for the writing of unit symbols and listed the 
unit
s that have been assigned special names.
 The CGPM also ratified three units that had been in use for some time. They were the unit for 
energy (joule), the unit for force (newton), and the unit for power (the watt). These were all 
named for eminent English 
scientists and engineers.
 The CGPM (Conf”rence G”n”rale des 
Poids et Mesures) and the CIPM (Comit” International des Poids et Mesures) also formally 
changed the name 'degree centigrade' to 'degree Celsius' (and kept the same symbol: ¡C).
 These commitments,
 made in 1948, meant that the mksA system gradually evolved into 
'The 
International System of Units (SI), which was completed in 1960.
 In the USA, the 
'Twentieth Yearbook of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics
' was 
devoted solely to a discussio
n of the need for, and advantages of, using the metric system, 
particularly for educational purposes.
 The Australian 
Weights and Measures (National Standards) Act 1948
 came into effect. It 
also provided for the creation of the National Standards Commission
 (NSC).
 1949 During the decennial inspection of the London standards for the yard and the pound (carried 
out in 1947 and 1948) showed that these standards were changing and no longer met the 
required degree of accuracy. At the same time the same measures 
in the USA were being 
referred to the metre and the kilogram in Paris. This meant that British measuring units 
would begin to diverge substantially from the identically named American yard and pound, 
causing further difficulties.
 1950 The Hodgson Report wa
s published in the UK. After arguing all the points for and against the 
metric system, it favoured a change to metric.
 A new definition of the metre was to be based on the wavelength of Cadmium
 114, 
Mercury
 198, or Krypton
 86.
   Metrication timeline
 130 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Before 1950, the Internationa
l Organization for Standardization (and perhaps the preceding 
International Standardizing Association) had adopted an international inch of 25.4 mm. In 
1950, Canada decided to adopt the ISO inch. This meant that the Canadian inch was 25.4 
millimetres; the 
English inch was 25.399
 972
 millimetres; and the USA inch was 
25.400
 050
 8 millimetres. Australia, New Zealand and South Africa continued to use the UK 
inch of 25.399
 972 millimetres.
 The Australian National Standards Commission (NSC) was appointed to admi
nister weights 
and measures legislation for Australia and its territories.
 1951 C Volet from Switzerland was appointed as Director of BIPM. He was Director from 1951 to 
1961
 A British Government White Paper on Weights and Measures was produced by a Board of 
Trade committee in response to the Hodgson Committee Report published in 1949. This was 
the 28th Report about the metric system put to Parliament during the preceding 100 y
ears. 
This very knowledgeable report quite unambiguously supported the introduction of the 
metric system into the United Kingdom. The committee recommended 
'an organised change
' to the metric system. The report stated that:
 É the British or 
'Imperial syste
m did not have the standing of the metric system 
and was not truly international.
 The United States used British units but also related them to the metre as the 
standard of reference.
 The Imperial system was not based on an international convention, nor co
uld it 
boast an international administrative centre as the metric system did.
 É that the cost of metrication would be considerable, but the sooner the inevitable 
reform was introduced the less expensive it would be.
 There should be three conditions of goin
g over to the metric system:
 first, an agreement with other members of the Commonwealth binding them to a 
similar reform simultaneously:
 second, decimalization of currency: and,
 third, an intensive propaganda
-cum
-education campaign on behalf of the new 
sys
tem.
 Canada passed an Act of Parliament to redefine old measures according to metric definitions. 
The pound was defined as 0.45359237 kilogram and the inch was defined as 25.4 millimetres 
exactly. Canada then led the world with its metric definitions; the 
rest of the English
-speaking world followed Canada
's lead by adopting these definitions in 1959.
 A British Empire Scientific Conference insisted that the British measures should be redefined 
in terms of the standard metre in Paris, and the necessary invest
igations were concluded, 
establishing the ratios of one yard equal to 0.9143 metre, and one pound equal to 0.453592 
kilogram.
 1952 November
 Contrary to all expectations, the UK Minister of Trade decided against implementing the 
measurement reform recommend
ed ny the Board of Trade the previous year saying that a 
metric change was seen as premature.
   Metrication timeline
 131 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1953 In a paper to the Royal Society, Francis Crick and James Watson gave details of the structure 
of DNA, describing it as 
'the secret of life
'. This single scie
ntific paper has radically changed 
science for decades to come.
 1954 The 10th CGPM, in 1954, approved the introduction of the ampere, for electric current, the 
kelvin, for thermodynamic temperature, and the candela, for luminous intensity, as base 
units. T
his brought the number of the base units to six. These base units measured the 
following six quantities: length, mass, time, electric current, thermodynamic temperature, 
and luminous intensity. The 10
th CGPM also decided to develop an 
International System 
of 
Units based on the metric system.
 1955 ICI, this international company, originally called Imperial Chemical Industries, decided to 
'go metric
' for all of their processes.
 1956 The Royal Society established a scientific research base in at Halley Bay, 
Antarctica. Here in 
1985, dramatic losses in the ozone layer are observed and the base remains an important 
location for climate research.
 1957 The Army in the USA issued a regulation establishing metric linear units as the basis for 
weapons and related eq
uipment. This regulation is still current.
 A committee of the Organization of American States proposed that the metric system be 
adopted throughout north and south America.
 India changed to the metric system in 1957, and then to The International System of
 Units in 
1960.
 1959 July 1
 Following a conference of English speaking nations, the participants agreed to unify their 
standards of length and mass, and to define them in terms of metric units. Before that, the 
UK inch measured 25.399
 8 mm while the USA in
ch was 25.400
 05 mm. Basically, they 
adopted the ISO inch of 25.4 mm. 
The National Bureau of Standards in the USA reported 
that:
 'As a result of many years of preliminary discussion, the directors of the national 
standards laboratories of Australia, Canada
, New Zealand, South Africa, the 
United Kingdom, and the United States entered into agreement, effective July 1, 
1959, whereby uniformity was established for use in the scientific and technical 
fields. The equivalents 1 yard = 0.9144 metre (whence 1 inch =
 25.4 millimetres) ...
' NBS Miscellaneous Publication 247 issued 1963 October, page 20
 From 1959 July 1, the inch has been standardised as exactly 25.4 mm. Before this 
agreement, there had never been a standard inch. We could consider 1959, as both 
the first time there was an international definition of an inch and also as 
the point 
when all
 the different inch
-pound standards ceased to exist. 
As a result, the 
American yard was shortened and the Imperial yard was lengthened. 
Since 1959, 
everywhere in the world, all the old measures such as the inch, the foot, and the 
yard have now been defined
 in terms of metres and millimetres.
 The old pre
-metric 
  Metrication timeline
 132 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 measures could now be considered as the metric inch, the metric foot, the metric 
yard, and the metric mile.
 However, in the USA they decided to keep the old Mendenhall foot for some purposes in 
some s
tates with the result that the USA now has two different standards for a foot. T
he yard 
in the USA (and hence the foot and inch) has been defined in different sizes in 1815, 1856, 
1893, and 1959.
 The People
's Republic of China again decreed metric reform. 
They proceeded slowly because 
the terminology of the metric system was alien to the Chinese language and full of sounds 
that simply did not exist in it. Eventually, the 
cheng
 was made equal to the litre, the 
tsin
 to 
half a kilogram, the 
mu to one
-sixteenth
 of the hectare, and the 
chi
 actually to one
-third of 
the metre. All of these measure
s relate
 to the 
international 
definition of a metre
. Old Chinese measures and masses were confiscated by the thousand, melted down and then 
used in the production of new o
nes with considerable saving of raw materials as well as 
safeguarding the people against potential swindles. Within five months, the operation 
apparently resulted in there being enough new weights and measures to equip all China; they 
were made obligatory 
from 1959, while the former measures of feudal lords were consigned 
to museums so that the Chinese people could see how others had been cheated in the past. As 
an example in 
Szechuan province, in the house of a former landowner, the two different 
measures 
of capacity that he once used are exhibited. The measure is the 
tou
, which should 
be the equivalent of ten litres, but the two specimens differ by 3.6 litres. The large 
tou
 was 
used in collecting dues in kind from the peasants, and the small 
tou
 when loans
 of grain were 
made to them.
 1960 October 14
 The 11th CGPM (1960, Resolution 12) adopted the name 
Syst‘me International 
d'Unit”s
, with the international abbreviation 
SI. The official English translation of the 
French name is the 
International System of Uni
ts (SI)
 and the official abbreviation of 
the system, in any language, is 
SI. The CGPM approved a comprehensive specification for units of measurement that laid down 
the rules for the prefixes, the derived units, and other matters, for this practical system
. Since then successive meetings of the CGPM and CIPM have added to, and modified as 
necessary, the original structure of the SI to take into account any relevant scientific advances 
as well as the changing needs of SI users.
 Just as the original metric sy
stem grew out of problems that scientists encountered in dealing 
with old units, so the International System grew out of the problems that an enlarged 
scientific community faced in the proliferation of subsystems of the metric system 
improvised to serve pa
rticular scientific disciplines. At the same time, it was clear that the 
original 18th century standards were not sufficiently accurate or precise for 20th century 
science.
 The CGPM also redefined and adopted a definition of the International Standard of L
ength as 
1,659,763.73 vacuum wavelengths of light resulting from an unperturbed atomic energy level 
transition of the krypton isotope having an atomic weight of 86. This change in definition 
achieved not only an increase in accuracy, but also progress towa
rd the goal of using 
fundamental physical quantities as standards.
 BIPM was given the additional responsibility for measurements and standards of ionising 
radiations.
 In Australia, 
The Weights and Measures (National Standards) Act 1948
 was replaced by the 
National Measurement Act 1960
, which defined Australia
's units and standards of 
measurement and the roles of the National Standards Commission and CSIRO in Australia
's   Metrication timeline
 133 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 system of weights and measures. Australia legally adopted Syst‘me Internationale d
'Unit”s 
(SI) for use in Australia.
 1961 Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) was changed to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) by 
international agreement.
 1962 J Terrien from France was appointed as Director of BIPM. He was Director from 1962 to 1977
 1963 A new 
'Weights
 and Measures Act 1963
' was passed in the UK. This defined the basic 
measures of the 
'yard
' and the 
'pound
' in terms of the 
'metre
' and the 
'kilogram
'. The United 
Kingdom formally redefined the yard as 0.9144
 metres and the pound as 
0.453
 592 37 kilograms.
 From this time, the old English measures have all legally depended 
on the SI standards: metre and kilogram. Many of the old Imperial measures were abolished 
(Examples are: drachm, scruple, minim, chaldron, quarter, rod, pole, perch)
 The British Standards 
Institution produced a survey that indicated a significant majority of 
industry 
in the UK 
favoured metrication.
 1964 Extensions of the activities of the BIPM required the construction of additional buildings. 
Two laboratory buildings were constructed at Pa
villon de Breteuil for work on ionising 
radiation. These also required an extension to the site, bringing it to about 40
 000 m
2. Helium
-Neon stabilized laser wavelengths were coming into use as length standards. 
Although the laser wavelength was generally 
accepted as a secondary standard, its widening 
use was mainly based on its remarkable coherence. Long distances, that would be impossible 
with atomic light sources, could be readily measured with laser interferometry.
 In the USA, t
he National Bureau of Sta
ndards (NBS) made The International System of Units 
(SI) its standard 
'except when the use of these units would obviously impair communication 
or reduce the usefulness of a report
'. Dorothy Hodgkin
's, Royal Society supported, x
-ray crystallography work on 
penicillin and 
vitamin B12 leads to her recognition as the UK
's only female Nobel Prize winning scientist.
 1965 At the request of industry in the UK, the president of the Board of Trade finally announced 
that the metric system would be adopted in the UK. T
he Government announced financial 
support for metricating the UK with a target for completion within 10 years. The UK Board of 
Trade estimated that the cost would run into millions and they were aware that this was 
immeasurably more than if the step had be
en taken in 1862, or 1904, or 1911.
 The governing body of the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) in the UK was dismissed, the 
long
-term link with the Royal Society was ended, and the NPL became part of the Ministry of 
Technology.
 Many of the Commonwealth 
and other countries decided to follow Britain
's example (New 
Zealand and South Africa in 1967, Australia and Canada in 1970).
 The Australian National Standards Commission was given responsibility to 
'pattern approve
' measuring instruments used for trade.
   Metrication timeline
 134 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1968 Following a report by the UK Standing Committee on Metrication, 
'Change to the Metric 
System in the United Kingdom
', The Metrication Board was established in the UK.
 However, 
the Metrication Board was restricted to only providing metric information; it
 was not 
permitted to promote the benefits of the metric system. Curiously, the formation of the UK 
Metrication Board took place in the 300th anniversary year of John Wilkins first design for a 
'universal measure
' in 1668 (see above).
 The USA Congress pass
ed the 
'Metric Study Act
' and President Lyndon B. Johnson signed 
this act into law. This study was to place particular emphasis on the feasibility of the USA 
adopting SI as the metric system of the USA.
 Following the enactment of this law, the Secretary of
 Commerce authorised the National 
Bureau of Standards (NBS) to undertake a three year study to determine the impact of 
increasing metric use on the USA. Specifically NBS were 
'to determine advantages and 
disadvantages of increased use of metric system in t
he United States.
' The report of the 45
-member advisory panel concluded that the U.S. would eventually join 
the rest of the world in the use of the metric system of measurement. This conclusion was 
based on extensive consultation with hundreds of business 
organizations, consumers, labor 
unions, manufacturers, and local and state government officials. The report of this study was 
produced in 1971, and it recommended that the USA adopt a ten year plan for metrication.
 The 1971 Report to the Congress (see belo
w) was entitled:
 A Metric America, a decision whose time has come
. 1969 The international status of the BIPM with regard to the French Government was formalized 
in an agreement signed between the Comit” International des Poids et Mesures and the 
French gov
ernment. The site of the Pavillon de Breteuil is now considered international 
territory and the BIPM has all the rights and privileges accorded to an intergovernmental 
organization. No doubt the Baron de Breteuil, as an international diplomat with an inter
est in 
science, would be pleased to know that the Pavillon that bears his name has become the 
permanent home of Le Bureau Internationale de Poids et Mesures (BIPM), a truly 
international scientific organisation.
 The New Zealand Government appointed a Metri
c Advisory Board with Ian D. Stevenson as 
Chairman. The Board set up 14 Sector Committees, 24 Divisional Committees, and a number 
of industrial committees with liaison to the Board. In order to give metrication a human face, 
Ian
 Stevenson found a baby girl
 who he named 
'Miss Metric
'. He published pictures of the 
baby, together with her body measurements, given in metric system units, in the newspapers. 
The New Zealand papers followed her development through her school years, again with 
metric data.
 The UK G
overnment established the Metrication Board in 1969 after the Confederation of 
British Industry and the British Standards Institution announced that industry was in favour 
of metrication. The goal of the UK Metrication Board was to help industry go metric 
in an 
orderly fashion; the Board was to educate the public and business, and to encourage the 
adoption of the metric system. For example, 
the apothecaries system was deprecated for 
dispensing medicines and it was replaced by the metric system. 
A target 
date of 1975 was set, 
by which time it was anticipated that the UK would be substantially metric.
 On
 July 21
, 'The 
Times
' in London published a special report on Decimal Currency and Metrication. This 
paragraph is from the article:
 The change to the metric
 system is more profound and complex than decimalizing 
the coinage. There is no simple way of saying that such
-and-such will happen: it 
certainly cannot be done by diktat. The impact of the change will be spread widely 
  Metrication timeline
 135 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 through the economy and widely throug
h time. Nevertheless, the Government has 
set a target date 
Ð the end of 1975.
 1970 Ordnance Survey maps began to include metric elevations during re
-surveying of UK
 The Australian Government passed the Metric Conversion Act with the aim of making the 
metric system the sole system of legal measurements in Australia. The Metric Conversion 
Board was established and Australia commenced its rapid change to metric units for almost 
all activities.
 The Canadian government also decided to 
'Go metric
' by issuing
 a statement that said that 
metrication is a definite objective of Canadian policy. All government parties supported the 
Canadian White Paper on Metric Conversion unanimously.
 1971 The 10th CGPM (1954, Resolution 6) and the 14th CGPM (1971, Resolution 3) a
dopted as 
base units of this practical system of units the units of the following seven quantities: length, 
mass, time, electric current, thermodynamic temperature, amount of substance, and 
luminous intensity. Adding the mole as the base unit for amount of
 substance, bringing the 
total number of base units to seven, completed the current version of The International 
System of Units (SI).
 The USA National Bureau of Standards Metric Study presented its 13
-volume USA Metric 
Study Report; the summary was entitl
ed 
'A Metric America 
Ñ A Decision Whose Time Has 
Come
'. The report concluded that the USA should, indeed, 
'go metric
' deliberately and 
carefully through a coordinated national program, and establish a target date 10
 years ahead, 
by which time the USA would
 be predominantly metric.
 Here is a copy of the covering letter 
of that report:
 THE HONORABLE PRESIDENT OF THE SENATE,
 THE HONORABLE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 SIRS: 
 I have the honor to transm
it to you the Report on the U.S.
 Metric Study, whi
ch was 
conducted by the National Bureau of Standards of the Department of Commerce. 
Thousands of individuals, firms and organized groups, representative of our 
society, participated in the Study. After weighing the extensive evidence presented 
by these par
ticipants, this report concludes that the United States should change to' 
the metric system through a coordinated national program, I agree with this 
conclusion, and therefore recommend:
 " That the United States change to the International Metric System 
deli
berately and carefully;
 " That this be done through a coordinated national program;
 " That the Congress assign the responsibility for guiding the change, and 
anticipating the kinds of special problems described in the report, to a central 
coordinating body res
ponsive to all sectors of our society;
 " That within this guiding framework, detailed plans and timetables be worked 
out by these sectors themselves;
 " That early priority be given to educating every American school
 child
 and the 
public at large to think in me
tric terms;
 " That immediate steps be taken by the Congress to foster U,S. participation in 
international standards activities;
   Metrication timeline
 136 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 " That in order to encourage efficiency and minimize the overall costs to 
society, the general rule should be that any changeover co
sts shall "lie where 
they fall";
 " That the Congress, after deciding on a plan for the nation, establish a target 
date ten years ahead, by which time the U.S. will have become 
predominantly, though not exclusively, metric;
 " That there be a firm government com
mitment to this goal.
 The Department of Commerce stands ready to provide whatever further assistance 
the Congress may require in working out a national plan and putting it into effect.
 Respectfully submitted,
 Maurice H. Stans
 Secretary of Commerce
 The 
Aust
ralian Wool Industry chang
ed the international trade for wool to metric units. 
Initially this meant wool was sold in kilograms at auction but during the 1971/72 season, 
objective measurement of wool was introduced using micrometres for wool fibre diameters
 and millimetres for wool fibre lengths.
 British decimal currency was introduced smoothly and quickly into the UK (on 1971 February 
15);
 pounds, shillings, and pence were replaced with the decimal money with 100 pennies to 
one pound.
 The Canadian Metric Co
mmission was established with
 more than 100 different sector 
committees
 1972 The Senate of the USA unanimously passed the 
'Metric Conversion Act of 1972
'. In the UK, another government 
'White Paper
' on metrication advocated a gradual rather than 
a compulsory change to the metric system. Geoffrey Howe became the responsible Minister 
for metric conversion in the new British government. The transition to metrication and the 
role of the Board were given 
positive support and encouragement. There was at this time a 
wealth of information within the Department of Trade to show that a clear retail cut
-off date 
was both desirable and inevitable exactly as 19th Century parliamentarians had foreseen. 
However, no 
cut
-off dates were set. This proved particularly relevant to retailers of 
'loose 
weight
' products over the next 35 years.
 Australian grains, dairy products, and eggs used metric measurements for trade. Some 
primary schools began to teach the old 1850s cgs 
system alongside the old units.
 1973 The International System of Units (SI) began to be taught in Australian secondary schools. 
Sadly, this was done alongside the teaching of cgs, mksA, and other old metric units, and had 
the net effect of making the teach
ing of measurement more complex than it needed to be.
 Tobacco, sugar, and peanuts were sold in grams and kilograms
 in Australia
. The leather 
tanning industry began to use some metric units in parallel with their old units.
 In the United Kingdom, the Europe
an Communities Act involved giving responsibility for 
weights and measures legislation to the European Economic Community (EEC). This was the 
inevitable result of the UK decision to join the (EEC) and by joining the EEC the UK 
government re
-affirmed its co
mmitment to adopt the metric system.
 The USMA and 
other professional groups combined to convene a National Metric 
Conference.
 The National Metric Conference was the 
largest ever held with 1700 registrants. 
  Metrication timeline
 137 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 At this conference, the American National Metric C
ouncil (ANMC) was formed to plan and 
coordinate the metric system implementation by USA industry.
 The Philippines begins active promotion of the metric syste
m. The Philippines first legalis
ed 
the use of the metric system in 1906.
 1974 By the end of 1974, m
ost industries in Australia had converted to metric, e.g. building 
industry, timber, paper and printing industry, agricultural and veterinary chemicals, 
meteorological services, photography, postal and communication charges, road transport and 
travel, text
ile industry, gas and electricity services, land and surveying, sport and recreation, 
water and sewerage, mining and metallurgy, rubber, chemicals and petroleum derivatives, 
fabricated metal products, automotive engineering, all beverages apart from spirit
s, ship 
building, aeronautical engineering.
 The metric system began to be taught in schools in the UK and items in metric packaging 
began to appear in UK shops.
 The USA Education Amendments encouraged educational institutions to prepare students to 
use the
 metric system of measurement as part of their educational program. This was the first 
official legislation concerning conversion to the metric system as part of Public Law 93
-380, 
to extend and amend the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. Und
er section 
403 of this Act entitled, 
'Education for the Use of the Metric System of Measurement
' It 
states:
 É the metric system of measurement will have increased use in the United States, 
and as such, the metric system will become the dominant system of w
eights and 
measures in the United States.
 This legislative change subsequently had little support in educational institutions.
 The House of Representatives in the USA (in a 240 to 153 vote) also defeated a motion to 
suspend the rules to consider metric con
version legislation (HR 11035) without any 
amendments being attached.
 1975 By 1975, many Australian industries had changed to metric measures. These included 
building, timber, paper, agricultural and veterinary chemicals (but not human), 
meteorological ser
vices, postal charges, road transport and travel, gas charges, surveying, 
sport and recreation, water and sewerage, mining and metallurgy (except gold and tin), 
rubber, chemicals and petroleum, fabricated metal products, automotive engineering, 
beverages, 
ship building and aeronautical engineering.
 In the USA, Congress passed the Metric Conversion Act of 1975. The Act established the USA 
Metric Board 
'to coordinate and plan the increasing use of the metric system in the United 
States
' and 
'to coordinate and
 plan the increasing use and voluntary conversion to the 
metric system
'. While one aim of the 
'Metric Conversion Act
' was 
'to foster voluntary 
conversion
' to the metric system, there was no 
'ten year plan
' as recommended in the 1971 
report, 
'A Metric 
America 
Ð A Decision Whose Time Has Come
'. This Act had little apparent 
effect without a specified time period and it took only two lobbyists and political insiders, 
Republican Lyn Nofziger and Democra
t Frank Mankiewicz, to sabotage
 the metrication effort 
in 1981 (see below).
 Metric product labelling began in Canada. Canadian weather forecasters begin to use degrees 
Celsius and to report rainfall and snowfall in metric units. Canadian schools began to teach 
using metric only.
   Metrication timeline
 138 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1976 On 5 May 1976 the Australi
an Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for Labour 
issued a press release that said:
 Building and construction, transportation, and a wide range of manufacturing 
and processing industries had substantially completed the metric changeover, and 
all other industries were well on the way. The Australian Government would 
ensure that the changeover was made thoroughly and well by outlawing the old 
system of measurements as early as it could efficiently do so
'. In Australia, by the end of 1976, all pac
kaged goods were required to be labelled in metric 
sizes, and the following were also converted to metric: air transport industry, food energy, 
petrol pumps, machine tools, electronic and electrical engineering appliance manufacturing.
 The United Kingdom p
assed another 
Weights and Measures Act
 1976
 gradually abolishing 
various old measuring units as well as redefining their measuring standards using metric 
standards. Apothecaries
' measures were now gone, but they kept the Troy ounce after 
redefining it in g
rams.
 From 1 April 1976, Canadian wind speed, visibility, and atmospheric pressure have been in 
metric units, with air pressure in kilopascals.
 Members were appointed to the Metric Board of the USA.
 1977 In Australia, verification of non
-metric weighing or
 measuring appliances used in trading 
ceased. Products sold by length or area, such as textile products and floor coverings, were to 
be sold in metres, and all pricing and advertising was to be in metric.
 The Department of Prices and Consumer Protection pr
esented a 
'Metrication Report
' to the 
UK Parliament.
 All new cars in Canada were required to have metric speedometers and odometers and all 
road signs were marked in metric
 1978 P Giacomo from France was appointed as Director of BIPM. He was Director from 
1978 to 
1988
 SI became the legal system of units in the nations of the European Union.
 The necessary order for cut
-off dates, drafted by the UK Board of Trade, was agreed by a huge 
range of retail trade, industry, engineering, consumer, trade union, elderl
y person, sporting 
and educational organisations and the overwhelming number of parliamentarians. However, 
the initiative was in the hands of Secretary of State for Trade, Roy Hattersley and a General 
Election was expected in 1979. He chose not to test the
 opinion of the Parliament and he 
withdrew the draft order. Labour lost the election. Margaret Thatcher became Prime Minister 
and appointed Sally Oppenheim, a long time critic of the metric programme as junior 
Minister of Consumer Affairs at the Department
 of Trade and Industry with metrication as 
part of her portfolio.
 The Australian National Measurement Laboratory (NML) (formerly the National Standards 
Laboratory) moved to Lindfield, a suburb of Sydney.
   Metrication timeline
 139 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1979 Despite the fact that many sectors of UK indust
ry had already changed to metric units and 
many others were preparing to do so, t
he newly elected Conservative 
government abolished 
the Metrication Board.
 In the USA, the Treasury Department
's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms required 
wine
 producers and importers to switch to metric bottles in standard, litre and millilitre, 
sizes.
 1980 The iodine stabilized Helium
-Neon laser wavelength was accepted by CGPM as a length 
standard. At the time, it had a wavelength uncertainty of 1 part in 10
10. This uncertainty is 
equivalent to an accuracy of 1
 mm in 10
 000 km.
 Recognising that most Commonwealth countries had completed their metric conversion and 
that the UK lagged behind significantly, the British Parliament approved a Statutory 
instrument (198
0/1070) which began the progressive phasing out of the Imperial system by 
withdrawing authorisation of a substantial number of units, such as the British thermal unit 
(Btu), the cran, the furlong, the horsepower, the hundredweight, the ton
, and the Fahrenh
eit 
degree
. The 
'Final Report of the UK Metrication Board
' was presented to Parliament. See: 
http://www.metric.org.uk/Docs/DTI/met1980.pdf
 for a full copy and for an historical 
perspective by the 
last Director of the UK Metrication Board see: 
http://www.metric.org.uk/press/humble.htm
 However, increased production costs from continuing to work in dual systems of measuring 
were still an issue. A
 report to the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) in 1980 estimated 
'the extra cost of continuing to work in dual systems of measuring was around £5 000 million 
every year
'. For companies on which the survey was based, increased production costs were 
equal to 9% of the companies
' gross profit and 14% of their net profit. To put this into 
perspective, in 1980, £5 000 million was roughly half the cost of the entire UK National 
Health Service; in today
's currency, 5
 000 M£/a is equivalent to about 11
 500 
M£; the net 
saving from 1980 to 2005 is about 6
 500 M£/a 
Ð plus compounding interest for ever year 
since 1980.
 The USA Treasury Department
's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms required distilled 
spirits bottles to conform to standard metric sizes, in
 litres and millilitres. As the USA 
changed to metric bottle sizes they were able to rationalise the number of sizes from 38 
different sizes to 6 different bottles.
 Canadian fabrics began to be sold by the metre.
 1981 The Australian Metric Conversion Board
 was dissolved.
 Canadian automotive fuels began to be sold in litres.
 In a Washington Post remembrance of the late Reagan Press Secretary and leading 
Republican Lyn Nofziger, long
-time political rival Democrat Frank Mankiewicz claims that 
the two 
of them 
had worked secretly together to kill the metric system in the United States. 
Mankiewicz wrote in the Washington Post (
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp
-dyn/con
tent/article/2006/03/28/AR2006032802142.html
 ) ... during that first year of Reagan
's presidency, I sent Lyn another copy of a 
column I had written a few years before, attacking and satirizing the attempt by 
some organized do
-gooders to inflict the metric 
system on Americans, a view of 
  Metrication timeline
 140 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 mine Lyn had enthusiastically endorsed. So, in 1981, when I reminded him that a 
commission actually existed to further the adoption of the metric system and the 
damage we both felt this could wreak on our country, Lyn went to
 work with 
material provided by each of us. He was able, he told me, to prevail on the 
president to dissolve the commission and make sure that, at least in the Reagan 
presidency, there would be no further effort to sell metric.
 It was a signal victory, but
 one which we recognized would have to be shared only 
between the two of us, lest public opinion once again began to head toward 
metrification.
 1982 President Ronald Reagan disbanded the USA Metric Board and cancelled its funding. 
Responsibility for metric
 coordination was transferred to the Office of Metric Programs in the 
Department of Commerce.
 1983 CGPM again redefined the metre; this time as the length of the path travelled by light in 
vacuum during a time interval of 1/299
 792
 458 of a second (17th CG
PM, Resolution 1). This 
was based on the speed of light as c = 299
 792
 458 m/s exactly. As always when the CGPM 
changed this definition, the goal was not only to improve the precision of the definition, but 
also to change its actual length as little as pos
sible. The unit of length is one of the seven base 
units in SI and this is its current definition.
 The modern length standard has now evolved over a period of 200 years and it can now be 
continually improved without the necessity of changing its definition
. CGPM recognised that 
advances in the technology of lasers would lead to a new concept for the length standard 
definition and chose the speed of light on which to base this standard. Because this was not 
based on any particular radiation, this definition 
opened the way to improvements in the 
precision with which the metre can be realised without changing its length.
 The BIPM stipulated that the metre can be realized by any of the following three methods.
 " The metre can be realized by a direct measurement of
 the distance that light travels in a 
vacuum in a measured time interval. Although this method follows directly from the 
definition, it cannot achieve the accuracy possible with the other two and so it is not 
used for practical purposes.
 " The metre can be r
ealized by a direct measurement of the frequency of radiation and 
calculating the wavelength in a vacuum. This method measures laser frequencies in 
terms of the caesium clock. A complicated series of measurements is required because 
different regions of th
e electromagnetic spectrum require different measurement 
technologies. The accuracy of this method is about 7.2
 parts in 10
12, or you could think 
of this as being within 0.4 millimetres when measuring the distance between the Earth 
and the Moon (385
 000 km). " The metre can be realized by means of one of the radiations from a list provided by the 
BIPM. This is the most practical method and establishes length standards by using the 
frequencies of certain stabilized lasers whose performance has been carefully 
measured. In this way, a laboratory standard of known frequency can be constructed 
using the specifications and operating conditions provided by the BIPM. A common 
laser used for this is the iodine stabilized HeNe laser operating at 633
 nm. It is used 
becau
se it is convenient to operate; it is accurate to 2.5 parts in 10
11; and it can be 
readily used to calibrate commercial measuring systems. This level of accuracy is 
equivalent to being within 1 millimetre in 40
 megametres, or put another way, it is as 
accu
rate as measuring from the equator to the North Pole to within a single millimetre.
   Metrication timeline
 141 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 The second (which is equivalent to 9
 192
 631 770 oscillations of the 
133
Cs atom) is determined 
to an uncertainty of 1 part in 10
14 by the use of a Caesium clock. This is th
e equivalent 
accuracy to a clock that is out by one second every 3
 000 000 years.
 'The Gimli Glider
' makes national news as Canada
's most notorious metric conversion mix
-up. See: 
http://www.wadenelson.com/
gimli.html
 for Wade H Nelson
's article.
 1984 A new building was constructed and opened at Pavillon de Breteuil for work on lasers.
 In Australia, responsibility for the completion of metrication was transferred to the National 
Standards Commission.
 In Canad
a, the deadline for full metric conversion of retail sales passes but no provision is 
made to enforce this law. The Ontario Court of Appeal reconfirms that the litre must be used 
for all fuel sales. However, Consumer and Corporate Affairs, the ministry res
ponsible for 
Metric Commission Canada
, announced that it would ignore the recent court ruling in 
Ontario and it would not prosecute people who violated metric laws.
 1985 The UK passed the Weights and Measures Act 1985. 
The 
UK Parliament reaffirmed the lega
l status of the metric definitions of the pound and the yard in the Weights and Measures Act of 
1985. This Act also defined the 
'gallon
' in terms of the 
'litre
'. This meant that all the measures 
had now been defined in terms of metric units. They also disc
arded the curie, the rem and the 
rad in favour of the bequerel, the sievert and the gray respectively and discarded all of the 
apothecaries
' and troy weights and measures; these are no longer legally recognised in the 
UK.
 In January, Michel CŽt”, the Canad
ian Minister for Consumer and Corporate Affairs, 
announced that regulations requiring use of metric measurements would be revoked and 
replaced by new provisions. In March, the Ministry for Consumer and Corporate Affairs 
disbanded 
Metric Commission Canada
 and replaced it with a small 
Metric Office
 in the 
Bureau of Policy Co
-ordination within Industry Canada. And then in October, the Canadian 
Metric Office
 became the 
Canadian Measurement Information Division
 and their staff was 
significantly decreased.
 Dramatic losses in the ozone layer are observed from the Royal Society established research 
base at Halley Bay in Antarctica.
 1986 The Canadian deadline for full metric conversion of advertising and signage for individually 
weighed items passed without any
 attempt at enforcing these laws.
 1987 Australian real estate trading was conducted using metric measures.
 1988 British scientist Dr Terry Quinn from U.K. was appointed as 10
th Director of the International 
Bureau of Weights and Measures (BIPM). Like most 
of the other Directors, he lived in the 
Pavillon de Breteuil in the Parc de Saint
-Cloud. BIPM was given the additional responsibility 
for measurements and standards of time scales and a new building was constructed and 
opened at the Pavillon de Breteuil to
 serve as a new library and offices.
 In the USA, the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act amended and strengthened the 
Metric Conversion Act of 1975, designating the SI metric system as the preferred 
  Metrication timeline
 142 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 measurement system, and requiring each federal agency t
o be metric by the end of 1992. This 
Act also changed the National Bureau of Standards to the 
'National Institute of Standards 
and Technology
'. The Australian government passed laws that withdrew the remaining Imperial units from 
general legal use. However
, some were listed in the regulations as temporary exceptions 
Ñ these are still in use in 2008.
 The 
Canadian Measurement Information Division
 was abolished. No further official effort 
has been made to complete metrication in Canada.
 1989 The European Union
 (EU) issued Directives on Weights and Measures. This declared the 
metric system as the official measurement system of all member countries. The main effects 
of the EU Directives were to mandate the use of metric units for all pre
-packed goods by the 
end o
f 1994, and for all bulk goods to be priced in terms of metric units by the end of 1999. 
Some politicians felt that this directive placed considerable pressure on the UK, so the UK 
government began negotiations with the EEC to delay implementation of aspec
ts of the 
metric system.
 A Canadian opinion poll found that 79% of the population think in degrees Celsius.
 Sir Tim Berners
-Lee proposed a global hypertext computer language that resulted in the 
creation of the World Wide Web.
 1991 President George Bush si
gned Executive Order 12770, 
'Metric Usage in Federal Government 
Programs
', directing federal departments and agencies to use the metric system in all its 
dealings, including construction and public works.
 1992 The summary of Australia
's metrication experience was published as: 
'Metrication in 
Australia
' by Kevin Wilks, which provides a valuable historical record of the Australian 
metrication process. This is an extract form its foreword:
 Metrication effectively began in Australia in 196
6 with the successful conversion to 
decimal currency under the auspices of the Decimal Currency Board. The 
conversion of measurements 
- metrication 
- commenced subsequently in 1971 
under the direction of the Metric Conversion Board and actively proceeded u
ntil 
the Board was disbanded in 1981. The process was a most significant event in 
Australia
's integration with the modernising world.
 Metrication is still in its early stages in the USA, which looks to Australia as an 
example and a model of how the process
 can be carried out. Because of the USA
's strong cultural influence upon us, Australia
's conversion can never be 100% until 
that nation has also converted.
 One can
't help being impressed by the magnitude of the task, by how much 
thought, planning and effor
t went into bringing it about, and by how many 
members of the general community participated in it. The change affected all 
Australians in both their private and professional lives and has been recognised as 
one of the great reforms of our time.
 1994 In th
e USA, the 
'Fair Packaging and Labelling Act
' was amended to require the use of dual 
units (inch
-pound and metric) on all consumer products.
   Metrication timeline
 143 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1995 October 1
 The Ministry for Education in Victoria suggests that the 1947 mksA should be used as the 
standard 
measures for use in primary schools.
 The UK government passed legislation, making the 1989 European Union (EU) Directives on 
Weights and Measures legal in the UK. This meant that 
'for economic, public health, public 
safety, and administrative purposes
', on
ly the metric system units have been allowed. This 
meant that all packaged goods in the UK were required to be labelled in metric units. 
However, the following were allowed as exceptions:
 Some had a time limit to 1999 December 31. These were:
 " pounds and ou
nces for weighing of goods sold in bulk;
 " pints and fluid ounces for alcoholic beverages such as beer and cider, water, lemonades 
and fruit juices in returnable containers;
 " therms for gas supply;
 " fathoms and nautical miles for marine navigation.
 " And some ha
ve no time limit. These are:
 " statue miles, yards, feet and inches for road traffic signs and related measurements of 
speed and distance;
 " pints for dispensing draught beer and cider, and for milk in returnable containers;
 " acres for land registration purpose
s and surveyors
' measurements;
 " troy ounces for transactions in gold and other precious metals.
 1996 All four Canadian Stock Exchanges began trading in decimal currency. They were the first 
exchanges in North American to abandon the old 
'pieces
-of-eight
' tr
ading system and to 
welcome the new (1792) decimal system. The old tradition of trading stocks in increments of 
one
-eighth of a dollar, or 12.5 cents, dated back to when the Spanish peso could be divided 
into 
'pieces of eight
' for the purpose of giving cha
nge.
 From 1996, all temperature observations from the National Weather Service of the USA were 
reported in degrees Celsius.
 The USA Congress passed the 
'Savings in Construction Act
' that gave 
'certain elements
' in the 
construction industry the ability not 
to use metric units in 
'certain instances
'. 1997 At 1997 December 31, there were forty
-eight nations that were members of the Convention du 
M‘tre. They were:
 Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, United States of Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, 
Chile
, China, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Finland, France, 
Germany, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Rep. of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, 
Korea (Dem. People
's Rep. of), Korea (Rep. of), Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norwa
y, 
Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States of America, 
Uruguay, Venezuela.
 In Australia, the National Analytical Reference Labor
atory was established as part of the 
Australian Government Analytical laboratory (AGAL) as a response to the need for chemical 
metrology standards and international activity in this field.
   Metrication timeline
 144 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 1998 The USA congress amended the 1988 
Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act 
to make 
compliance voluntary.
 1999 September 23
 The Mars Climate Orbiter spacecraft crashed onto the surface of Mars when USA Customary 
measures were used instead of metric units. This happened because the navigation 
software 
was programmed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory to accept metric data in newton seconds 
but the maker of the spacecraft Lockheed Martin Astronautics provide the information in 
pound
-force seconds. This meant that the retarding force was only about
 a quarter of what 
was needed.
 In Australia, the Australian National Standards Commission was given responsibility for 
pattern approval and compliance testing of electricity, gas and water meters.
 2000 In the USA, the automotive, pharmacy, earth moving mac
hinery, refrigeration, electronics 
hardware, IEEE standards, University and Olympic sports, military training and operations, 
highway construction, federal building construction, nutritionists and many others have 
changed to a metric system, or to SI. Howe
ver, this was often 
'hidden metric
' in that the fact 
that they operated in metric units was hidden from their suppliers and their customers.
 SI had now become a dominant force in international trade. Although where international 
trade is concerned you need
 more than just the International System of Units, you also need 
to use international standards, such as those provided by the International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO), individual product standards, and preferred sizes that are accepted by 
your
 customers all around the world. It is now essential that goods, manufactured anywhere 
in the world, are built to these specifications so that all manufacturers can be competitive in 
the international marketplace.
 In the UK, 
'loose goods
' were required to 
be priced, weighed and measured in metric units. 
However, the law also provided for 
'supplementary indications
' (that is prices for old pounds, 
feet, and inches) were to be permitted for 10 years, until 2009.
 In the USA, Tennessee adopted the Uniform Packa
ging and Labelling Regulations, based on 
the Fair Packaging and Labelling Act of 1994.
 2001 The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) changed to decimal trading. Prior to this they had 
used the 
'pieces
-of-eight
' that they originally adopted in 1792.
 Sir Tim Berne
rs-Lee is elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society for his proposal of a global 
hypertext project (see 1989 above) that resulted in the creation of the World Wide Web.
 2002 In a speech to the United Nations, President George W Bush of the USA, referred to 
'litres of 
anthrax,
' 'metric tons
' and 
'150
 kilometre range missiles.
' 2004 January 1
 Professor Andrew Wallard was appointed Director of the BIPM. Before this, he had been 
Deputy Director and Chief Metrologist of the National Physical Laboratory in the UK.
 He 
replaced Dr Terry Quinn CBE FRS, who had been Director of the BIPM since 1988. Upon his 
retirement, Dr Quinn became Director Emeritus of the BIPM.
   Metrication timeline
 145 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 The Australian National Measurement Institute (NMI) was established by uniting the 
Australian Government 
Analytical laboratory (AGAL), National Measurement Laboratory 
(NML), and the National Standards Commission (NSC). The NMI has the responsibility of 
advising the Australian and state governments on the scientific, technical and legislative 
requirements and 
for coordinating the Australia
's national measurement system.
 2006 Stephen Hawking was presented with the Royal Society Copley Medal for his contributions to 
theoretical physics. However, before Stephen Hawking received his Copley Medal from the 
Royal Soci
ety, it was first flown into space aboard NASA
's Space Shuttle.
 2007 The Council of Australian Governments (COAG) agreed that the Commonwealth should 
assume responsibility for trade measurement.
 Australian scientists will use two highly polished spheres to determine how many silicon 
atoms make up a kilogram. This could then be used as the new definition bringing the 
kilogram into line with other base units such as the metre and the second, which a
re all 
defined by physical constants. This is a truly international project in that the silicon, which 
has taken three years to produce, was made in Russia and grown into a near
-perfect crystal in 
Germany. See: 
http://www.theage.com.au/news/national/making
-an-exact
-difference/2007/06/14/1181414466901.html
 2008 The BIPM still has its headquarters near Paris, in the grounds of the Pavillon de Breteuil
. Surrounding the Pavillon de Breteuil is the 
'Parc de Saint
-Cloud
'. The French Government 
places this land at the disposal of the BIPM; its area of 43
 500
 m2 (4.35
 hectares) is regarded 
as international territory, and its upkeep is financed jointly by the
 Member States of the 
Convention du M‘tre.
 The BIPM has a staff of about 70 and its status is similar to that of other inter
-government 
organizations based in France. The physicists and technicians who work at BIPM conduct 
measuring research called metrolo
gical research. Their main jobs are to make international 
comparisons of the realisations of units, and to check the standards used in metrology.
 Because of the range of work carried out by the BIPM, the CIPM has set up Comit”s 
Consultatifs. These consulta
tive committees provide the CIPM with information on matters 
that it refers to them. The Consultative Committees, can form temporary or permanent 
working groups to study special subjects, and they are responsible for coordinating the 
international work car
ried out in their respective fields and for proposing recommendations 
concerning units.
 The Consultative Committees have common regulations and they meet at irregular intervals. 
The chairman of each Consultative Committee is designated by the CIPM. The mem
bers of 
the Consultative Committee are usually people from metrology laboratories and specialized 
institutes together with representation from the BIPM. At present there are ten such 
committees:
 Consultative Committee for Electricity and Magnetism (CCEM)
 Consultative Committee for Photometry and Radiometry (CCPR)
 Consultative Committee for Thermometry (CCT)
 Consultative Committee for Length (CCL)
 Consultative Committee for Time and Frequency (CCTF)
 Consultative Committee for Ionizing Radiation (CCRI)
   Metrication timeline
 146 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 Consu
ltative Committee for Units (CCU)
 Consultative Committee for Mass and Related Quantities (CCM)
 Consultative Committee for Amount of Substance (CCQM)
 Consultative Committee for Acoustics, Ultrasound and Vibration (CCAUV)
 Conclusion
 It's hard to pinpoint the
 exact date that the modern metric system, the International System 
of Units (SI) actually began. What is a young student to do when confronted with the 
question:
 When was the metric system invented?
 " Did the International System of Units (SI) begin when th
e Royal Society published 
John Wilkins
', 'An Essay Towards a Real Character and a Philosophical Language
' on 
1668 April 13
? " Do we take the date of the decision of the Acad”mie Fran“aise to promote a decimal 
system on 
1790 August 22
 as the starting point?
 " Do we take the issuing of the first report of the French Academy of Sciences who in 
their first report of 
1790 October
 27 recommended the decimal division of money, 
weights, and measures for France?
 " Do we take the date of the original French legislation, on 
1791 March 26
, or do we 
consider the date(s) of subsequent legislation?
 " Do we use the legal origin of the metre as the day when the Republican Government of 
France adopted a report from the Acad”mi
e Fran“aise and decreed the unit of length 
was to be called the 
'metre
' and it was to be 1/10
 000 000 (10
-7) of the earth
's quadrant 
on 
1793 August 1
. " Do we take the day that the Republic of France legally adopts the Academy of Sciences 
recommendation for 
a decimal metric system on 
1795
 April
 7. " Some say that it
's better to date the metric system from a definite event, such as the 
deposition of the two platinum standards, in the Archives de la R”publique in Paris on 
1799
 June
 22. This event is regarded as o
f prime importance by the Bureau 
Internationale de Poids et Mesures (BIPM) who say that this is a key to the 
development of the international system of units 
Ñ the BIPM brochure says:
 The creation of the Decimal Metric System at the time of the French Revo
lution and 
the subsequent deposition of two platinum standards representing the metre and 
the kilogram, on 22 June 1799, in the Archives de la R”publique in Paris can be 
seen as the first step in the development of the present International System of 
Units
. The future
 Science and technology, by their nature, are constantly changing. We can expect many new 
demands for new measuring methods as sciences and technologies develop. However there 
will always be a need for standardisation so the international and n
ational standards 
institutions will remain but they will often have to operate differently. For example, in the 
early 21st century, we are seeing a trend toward online calibration where software at a 
standards institution can analyse the measurements from 
a remote machine, even control the 
measuring equipment at a distant laboratory, and can then issue a test certificate showing its 
accuracy and its precision. This is already possible using standard computer connections over 
the internet.
   Metrication timeline
 147 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 References
 BIPM
 The definitive source of information about the International System of Units (SI) is from the 
International Office of Weights and Measures, usually known by the initials of its French 
name, the Bureau International de Poids et Mesures (BIPM). You can access 
the English 
language web pages at: 
http://www.bipm.org/en/home/
 or you can download a complete 
copy of the International System of Units (SI) brochure from 
http://www.bipm.org/en/si/si_brochure/general.html
 where section 1.8 is a relevant 
'Historical Note
'. For those particularly interested in history you might like to refer to: 
http://www.bipm.org/en/si/history
-si/
 and 
http://www.bipm.org/en/bipm/history/
 ISO ISO 31.
 Quantities and Units.
 International Organization for Standardization (
ISO
), Geneva, 
Switzerland. 1992
-1998 (14 volumes). Available in the U.S. from 
ANSI.
 Comprehensive 
description of physical quantities, their
 symbols, and the SI units used to measure them. 
Volume 0 covers general principles and rules for correct use. This document is available for 
purchase.
 NIST
 Free copies of the 
Guide for the Use of the International System of Units (SI) 
can be 
downloaded by
 clicking on the link:
 NIST SP 811.
 It is published by the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology (
NIST
), Gaithersburg, MD 20899
-0001. Special Publ
ication 811, 
1995 edition has 74 pages and it gives detailed rules for using SI, explains the rounding rules, 
and lists numerous compound derived units. Lists deprecated (obsolete) metric units and 
conversion factors to be used for converting some 400 non
-SI units to SI.
 NIST also has two web pages that give relevant information on the history of the metric 
system in the USA. You can find them at:
 http://ts.nist.gov/WeightsAndMeasures/Me
tric/lc1136a.cfm
 and
 http://www.mel.nist.gov/div821/museum/timeline.htm
  ANSI Standard for Use of the International System of Units (SI): The Modern Metric System
 is a 
70 page American Nation
al Standards Institute (
ANSI
) document published by the Institute 
of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (
IEEE
), and the American Society for Testing and 
Materials (
ASTM International
). This document is available for purchase from 
ANSI
 ATI The Applied Technology Institute (ATI) has a broad view of the metric system at 
http://www.aticourses.com/international_system_units.htm
 This article, 
'The International 
System of Units 
Ñ Its History and Use in Science and Industry
', is by Robert A. Nelson.
 Egypt
 The University College of London web pages at 
http://www.digitalegypt.ucl.ac.uk/weights/lenght.html
 provide reliable information on the 
history of Egypt.
 Metric Methods
 Jim Frysinger
's Metric
 Methods 
web page contains reliable reference information 
that is 
particularly relevant to the USA.
 You can find 
the Metric Methods
 web page 
at: 
http://www.metricmethods.com
    Metrication timeline
 148 of 
148 ! Pat Naughtin 2009
 pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
  http://www.metricationmatters.com
 The United Kingdom Metric Association 
has an interesting insight into the development of 
the metric system in the UK where Jim Humble OBE writes of 
'Historical perspectives by the 
last Director of the UK Metrication Board
'. See: 
http://ww
w.metric.org.uk/press/humble.htm
  USMA
 The United States Metric Association (USMA) has a chronology of the SI metric system that 
lists the important dates in the history of the modern metric system at 
http://lamar.colostate.edu/~hillger/dates.htm
 You can contact the 
USMA
 through this link.
 The USMA also publishes the 
USMA SI 
Guide.
 It is a 
Guide to the Use of the Metric System 
(SI Version),
 17th edition, 2007 with 34 pages. It is a primary source of information for using 
the modern version of the metric system (SI) and it is available for $18 post paid from: 
USMA, 10245 Andaso
l Avenue, Northridge CA 91325
-1504. Phone/Fax: 818
-363-5606
 John Wilkins
 http://www.metricationmatters.com/docs/CommentaryOnWilkinsOfMeasure.pdf
  http://www.metricationmatters.com/docs/WilkinsTranslationLong.pdf
  http://www.metricationmatters.com/docs/WilkinsTransl
ationShort.pdf
  Tito Livio Burattini
 http://www.roma1.infn.it/~dagos/history/sm/node19.html
  Simon Stevin
 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simon_Stevin
  The Measure of Enlightenment
 http://content.cdlib.org/xtf/view?docId=ft6d5nb4
55&doc.view=content&chunk.id=d0e9255
&toc.depth=1&anchor.id=0&brand=eschol
  You can find a comprehensive metrication timeline at 
http://www.metricationmatters.com/docs/MetricationT
imeline.pdf
 and this is just one of 
the many resources that you will find on the 
Metrication
 matters
 website at 
http://metricationmatters.com
 that will help you with your own metrication upgrade.
 Books
 Measures 
and Men by Witold Kula (Translated by R Szreter)
, Princeton University Press 
1986
 The Curious Life of Robert Hooke: The Man Who Measured London
 by Lisa Jardine 
HarperCollinsPublishers 
2003
 © Pat Naughtin 2009
 Metric system consultant, writer, and speaker,
 Pat Naughtin, has helped thousands of people 
and hundreds of companies upgrade to the modern metric system smoothly, quickly, and so 
economically that they now save thousands each year when buying, processing, or selling for 
their businesses. Pat provides
 services and resources for many different trades, crafts, and 
professions for commercial, industrial and government metrication leaders in Asia, Europe, and 
in the USA. Pat's clients include the Australian Government, Google, NASA, NIST, and the 
metric as
sociations of Canada, the UK, and the USA.
 Pat specialises in the modern metric system based on the International System of Units (SI), but 
he is mostly concerned with the processes that people use for themselves, their groups, their 
businesses, their indu
stries, and their nations as they go about their inevitable metrication 
process. See 
http://www.metricationmatters.com/
 for more metrication information, contact 
Pat at 
pat.naughtin@metricationmatters.com
 or 
subscribe to the free 'Metrication matters' 
newsletter at 
http://www.metricationmatters.com/newsletter
  