Skip to Main Content            POLITICO              Magazine  The Agenda  Pro   Search    Search                SECTIONS   Congress  White House  Magazine  The Agenda  Video  Podcasts     2020 Elections   News  All Election Results  Presidential Results  Senate Results  House Results  Governor Results  Key Ballot Measures  Tracking Threats to the Election     NEWSLETTERS   Playbook  Playbook PM  POLITICO Nightly  Transition Playbook  Huddle  All Newsletters    SERIES   The Fifty  The Vaccine Race  What Works  Women Rule     POLITICO LIVE   Live Home  Upcoming Events  Previous Events  About POLITICO Live    COLUMNS &amp; CARTOONS   Rich Lowry  Jack Shafer  Matt Wuerker  Cartoon Carousel     POLICY   Agriculture  Cannabis  Cybersecurity  Defense  Education  eHealth  Employment &amp; Immigration  Energy &amp; Environment  Finance &amp; Tax  Health Care  Space  Sustainability  Technology  Trade  Transportation     EDITIONS   California  Canada  Europe  Florida  New Jersey  New York  Pro     Follow us   Twitter  Instagram  Facebook      My Account  Log InLog Out                                  Facebook      Twitter        Print     Continue to article content                                  Gingrey calls the independent Medicare board set up by the health care law 'rationing.'
 The remarks from Rep. Phil Gingrey (R-Ga.) came during a press conference in which more than a dozen Republican health care providers blasted the Independent Payment Advisory Board, a panel of 15 experts created by the reform law to slow the growth of Medicare.
 To Gingrey, the board is more dangerous than the House Medicare plan proposed by Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan — the one Democrats have been using as a political weapon against Republicans because it would transform the program into subsidies for private health insurance.
 “Democrats like to picture us as pushing grandmother over the cliff or throwing someone under the bus.
 In either one of those scenarios, at least the senior has a chance to survive,” Gingrey said.
 “But under this IPAB we described that the Democrats put in Obamacare, where a bunch of bureaucrats decide whether you get care, such as continuing on dialysis or cancer chemotherapy, I guarantee you when you withdraw that the patient is going to die,” Gingrey said.
 “It’s rationing."
 By supporting IPAB, “President Obama has already ended Medicare as we know it,” Gingrey said.
 Republicans, led by Rep. Phil Roe (R-Tenn.), have targeted IPAB for elimination, claiming the unelected IPAB members will ration care for seniors.
 Roe wants House Speaker John Boehner to attach the IPAB repeal bill to legislation raising the debt ceiling.
 A handful of Democrats have also signed onto the bill out of concerns the board will weaken congressional authority over Medicare.
 Members of the IPAB board, which could make its first recommendations in 2014 if Medicare spending grows too fast, must be confirmed by the Senate.
 The health law specifically prohibits the board from rationing care.
 While the Obama administration has been open to tweaking small parts of the health reform law, the IPAB won’t fall into that category.
 President Barack Obama, in his April budget speech, proposed strengthening the board.
 This article first appeared on POLITICO Pro at 4:51 p.m. on June 22, 2011.
 CORRECTION: A caption previously misspelled Rep. Phil Gingrey's name.
 This article tagged under:   Medicare  Phil Gingrey  Senior Citizens        Missing out on the latest scoops?
 Sign up for POLITICO Playbook and get the latest news, every morning — in your inbox.
