Objective: To describe a case of facial Erysipelas in a patient and discuss the differential comparison with parvovirus B19, Systemic Lupus Erythrematosus, and Rosacea based mainly on the visual appearance of the rash and associated signs and symptoms.
 Patient and method: A 50 years old female with a history of breast cancer in remission after lumpectomy and radiation therapy completed three years ago, developed fever to 102 F and painful warm red cheeks and periorbital edema.
 Results: The patient improved after two days of intravenous penicillin G two million units four times a day; both redness and fever resolved.
 Conclusion: Although erysipelas of the ipsilateral upper limb, following breast cancer have been described, no reports have been found of facial erysipelas following breast cancer.
 Patient with facial erysipelas.…  .
 The red face.… Figures - uploaded by John GreeneAuthor contentAll figure content in this area was uploaded by John GreeneContent may be subject to copyright.
 3 No.
 6 December 2009; 681-688The red face: Erysipelas versus, Parvovirus B19, SLE,and RosaceaIndrani Dattaa, Beata Casanasb, Albert L Vincentc, John N GreenedaH.
 Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, 12902 Magnolia Drive Tampa, FL 33612;bDivision of Infectious Diseases and International Medicine University of South Florida College ofMedicine, 2 Columbia Drive, TGH 318 Tampa, FL 33606; cDivision of Infectious Diseases andInternational Medicine Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, University of SouthFlorida, 12901 Bruce B. Downs Blvd.Tampa, Florida 33612-4742; dMoffitt Cancer Center and ResearchInstitute, Internal Medicine and Interdisciplinary Oncology, University of South Florida College ofMedicine, 12902 Magnolia Drive, FOB-3, Tampa, Florida 33612-9497, USA.Background: Several conditions can lead to the red face, including Erysipelas, Erythema infectiosum, SystemicLupus Erythrematosus, and Rosacea.Objective: To describe a case of facial Erysipelas in a patient and discuss the differential comparison withparvovirus B19, Systemic Lupus Erythrematosus, and Rosacea based mainly on the visual appearance of the rashand associated signs and symptoms.Patient and method: A 50 years old female with a history of breast cancer in remission after lumpectomy andradiation therapy completed three years ago, developed fever to 102 F and painful warm red cheeks and periorbitaledema.Results: The patient improved after two days of intravenous penicillin G two million units four times a day; bothredness and fever resolved.Conclusion: Although erysipelas of the ipsilateral upper limb, following breast cancer have been described, noreports have been found of facial erysipelas following breast cancer.Keywords: Butterfly rash, erythema infectiosum, facial erysipelas, rosacea, SLEClinical reportSeveral conditions can lead to the red face,including Erysipelas, Erythema infectiosum, SystemicLupus Erythematosus and Rosacea.
 Here, wedescribe a case of facial erysipelas in a patient with apast history of breast cancer, followed by a briefdiscussion of erysipelas and a differential comparisonwith the three other named conditions based mainlyon the visual appearance of the rash and associatedsigns and symptoms.
 Although erysipelas of theipsilateral upper limb following breast cancer has beendescribed in the literature [1-3], an attempt to searchfor reports of facial erysipelas following breast cancerspecifically was entirely unsuccessful.Case reportA 50 years old female with a history of breastcancer in remission after lumpectomy and radiationtherapy completed three years ago, developed feverto 102 F and painful warm red cheeks and periorbitaledema (Fig.
 1, 2).
 She was admitted and diagnosedwith erysipelas.
 After two days of intravenouspenicillin G 2 million units four times daily, the rednessand fever resolved.
 She was discharged on oralPenicillin VK 500mg four times daily for two weeks.The erysipelas has not recurred after five years offollow up.Correspondence to: John N. Greene, M.D.
 F.A.C.P., Chief,Infectious Diseases and Hospital Epidemiologist, MoffittCancer Center and Research Institute, Professor of InternalMedicine and Interdisciplinary Oncology, University of SouthFlorida College of Medicine, 12902 Magnolia Drive FOB-3,Tampa, Florida 33612-9497, USA.
 E-mail: John.Greene@moffitt.org       682 I. Datta, et al.DiscussionErysipelasErysipelas is a superficial form of cellulitisinvolving the upper dermis and characterized bydiffuse spread via the cutaneous lymphatics.
 Group Abeta hemolytic streptococcus (GABHS) is themost common causative pathogen, though othergroups of beta-hemolytic streptococci (C and G),Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumonia,Haemophilus influenza, and Yersinia enterolitica havealso been isolated [4].
 Although traditionally erysipelasis known to affect the elderly, immunocompromised,neonates and small children [5], Erysipelas was amajor cause of mortality in prisoner-of-war andGerman concentrations camps during world war IIand later in the Korean conflict.
 Recent studies,including one described by Edourd M. Gosshan [4, 6],indicates erysipelas to favor adults and predominantlyfemales.
 Among predisposing factors are describeda breach in the epithelial barrier resulting from localtrauma, infection, inflammation, or lymphedemafollowing surgical procedures (e.g.
 mastectomy orsaphenous vein harvesting).
 In addition immuno-suppression secondary to HIV, cancer chemotherapyor radiotherapy, prolonged use of corticosteroids,diabetes, and alcohol abuse have all also been noted[5].
 The rash in erysipelas presents as a rapidlyspreading painful, shiny, bright red, well definedraised lesion, with a palpable border that is sharplydemarcated from the surrounding uninvolved skin.Lymphedema surrounding the hair follicles gives itthe characteristic “peau d’ orange” appearance [7].With severe infection, vesicles, bullae, and areas ofhemorrhagic necrosis are found.
 Although the mostcommon areas affected are the lower extremities,when presenting on the face, erysipelas may beunilateral involving one cheek [8].
 However, itclassically spreads over the nasal bridge to thecontralateral hemiface.
 Facial erysipelas may beasymmetric; it does not spare the nasolabial folds, canextend to the peri-orbital areas [9] and the pinna ofthe ear (Milian’s sign).
 However, the rash spares thescalp and areas below the collar line [10].
 The onsetis usually acute with associated fever, chills, andregional lymphadenopathy.Erysipelas is a clinical diagnosis, and tests areperformed only to substantiate an ambiguous case ordiagnostic challenge.
 Blood culture, needle aspirationand punch biopsy are all unreliable yielding true positiveresults, in less than five to forty percent of allcases [9].
 Serological testing includes elevated antistreptolysin (ASO) and anti-DNase titers.
 Microscopicexamination of biopsied tissue shows diffuse dermaledema, occasionally extending into the subcutaneousfat with dilated capillaries and neutrophilic invasion ofthe lymphatics [5].
 Although gram-positive bacteriamay be demonstrated in the tissue, serological detectionof the streptococcal antigen is a more reliable test.Penicillin (penicillin G two million units every sixhours, or penicillin VK 500 mg orally four times a dayFig.
 1 Patient with facial erysipelas.
 683The red faceVol.
 3 No.
 6December 2009for two weeks) has been the standard of care oralternatively, cephalosporins (ceftriaxone one gramintravenously every 24 hours) or erythromycin(erythromycin 250 mg orally every six hours) fordocumented cases of penicillin allergy.Parvovirus B19The characteristic “slapped cheek” presents asa distinctive bright red blotchy rash on the face ofindividuals suffering from Erythema infectiosumcaused by Parvovirus B19.
 The infection which ismore common in children between the ages of fourto ten years old [11] is also known as “ fifth disease”,since it was the fifth childhood exanthematousinfection to be reported in the literature at the time.The initial rash appears usually after a short prodromeof low grade fever, headache, and nonspecific upperrespiratory symptoms.
 It presents on the malar areaof the face and is followed by circumoral pallor and amaculopapular, reticular, pruritic rash on the trunk andextremities.
 The rash tends to fade quickly, but canrecur with exercise, sun exposure, or bathing.
 Such apresenting rash is pathognomic of the illness in children,but is usually less prominent in adults.
 In the latter, itis more often characterized by acute, symmetricalpolyarthralgias of the hands and extremities [12-14].When present in children, the arthropathy tends toinvolve the knees and ankles rather than the smallerjoints.
 In a clinical study conducted by Anderson MJet al.
 [15], healthy volunteers were intranasallyinoculated with the virus and the clinical course wasdelineated by the consequent immunologic response.It was noted that prodromal symptoms correspondedwith the initial phase of viremia, followed by theappearance of rash and arthralgias associated withthe development of antiviral antibodies.
 Both thecutaneous rash and the arthropathy, associated withParvovirus B19, have been assumed to be due to therespective deposition of immune complexes in the skinand joints [13].Apart from fifth disease and arthropathy, humanParvovirus B19 is also responsible for causingtransient aplastic anemia in patients with underlyinghemolytic disorders, chronic anemia in immuno-compromised patients, hydrops fetalis and congenitalanemia in pregnant women, and a painful papularpurpuric gloves and stockings syndrome in adults.Erythema infectiosum is usually diagnosed by itscharacteristic rash.
 Elevated IgM antibodies areseen in almost all cases of fifth disease.
 Viral DNAdetection is utilized in the diagnosis of red cell aplasia,and persistent cases where antibody production isminimal.
 Giant pronormoblasts can be seen on bonemarrow biopsy sampling in patients with aplasticanemia caused by Parvo-virus B19.Fifth disease is a self limiting illness requiring notreatment in the majority of cases.
 Anti-inflammatorymedications can be implemented if arthropathy isprominent, while administration of intravenousimmunoglobulin is reserved for persistent B19infection causing anemia in the immunodeficientpatients [16].Systemic lupus erythematosusSystemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) is arelatively common chronic inflammatory auto-immuneconnective tissue disorder with a higher predilectionfor young, Afro-American, women and it is infrequentin the elderly male Caucasian population.
 It is acommon disease in southeast Asians.
 It is thepresenting sign in about 25% of cases, and may notbe followed by other signs of SLE for months to years[17, 18].The malar rash is typically bilateral andsymmetrical, extending from one malar prominenceacross the nasal bridge to the other side.
 The rashappears as minimally discernable subtle faint blush ormore strikingly as a prominent red color.
 It is a clearlydemarcated, slightly edematous, macular, lesioncharacterized by fine scaling, and telangiectasia.
 Itoften recurs with exposures to sunlight, Ultraviolet-Blight, and stress (including infection, surgery, andpregnancy).
 The butterfly rash may last from a fewhours to a few days; healing can occur without scarring(unlike the discoid rash), although there may betemporary post inflammatory hyper-pigmentation.Although some febrile acute cases of the lupus rashesmaybe difficult to distinguish from erysipelas, the facialrash of SLE tends to be bilateral and symmetric, andspares the nasolabial folds.
 In contrast, erysipelaspresents as a peau d’ orange texture, involving thenasolabial folds and may be asymmetric.Despite the fact that SLE is rarely curable, anaccurate and timely diagnosis is imperative for thecontrol of symptoms and amelioration of disease       684 I. Datta, et al.progression.
 Laboratory testing includes completeblood counts, metabolic panel, and urinalysis as wellas serological markers such as antinuclear antibodies,anti-double stranded-DNA, anti-Smith, and antiphospholipid antibodies.
 Diagnosis is ultimatelyformulated according to the eleven criteria establishedby the American College of Rheumatology (seeTable 1).
 The presence of at least four criteria isrequired for a positive diagnosis.
 A skin biopsyspecimen, demonstrating deposition of immunecomplexes at the dermal-epidermal junction of the skin(Lupus Band Test), is both sensitive and specific forthe diagnosis of Lupus [18, 19].
 Definite managementdepends on organ involvement, stage, and severity ofthe disease.
 Most “butterfly” rashes are addressedby avoidance of sun and UV light exposure as wellas use of sunblocks.
 Oral prednisone is usuallyrequired to control associated systemic symptoms.Antimalarials (hydroxychloroquine, quinacrine, andchloroquine) may be used in refractory and morediffuse pathology.RosaceaRosacea is a chronic relapsing acneiform disorderof the skin, commonly occurring in the middle agedand older population.
 It is diagnosed more commonlyin females but tends to be more severe in males [20].Rosacea has been clinically classified intofour broad subtypes with further grading [21]:Erythematotelangiectatic (subtype 1), Papulopustular(subtype 2), Phymatous (subtype 3), and ocular(subtype 4).
 There is alsoprominent telangiectasia of the cheeks and nose, andthere may be complaints of associated stinging, itchingand burning of the affected areas.
 The papulopustularsubtype is characterized by small inflammatorypapules and pustules on a background of persistenterythema, presenting in a Maltese cross distributionover the nose, forehead, cheeks and chin.
 Thecircumoral and periorbital areas are typically spared[22].
 The phymatous subtype is characterized bythickened, cosmetically disfiguring skin due to thehypertrophy of sebaceous glands and connective tissuewith associated lymphedema and prominent follicularpores [23].
 Various parts of the face may be affectedincluding the nose (rhinophyma), chin (gnathophyma),forehead (metophyma), ears (otophyma) and eyelids,of which rhinophyma is relatively more common.Ocular involvement occurs in greater than 50%of the patients with rosacea.
 Although the mostcommon symptoms are dry eyes and chronicblepharoconjunctivitis [24], the spectrum ofpresentation can range from mild dryness of the eyeto severe corneal involvement.The specific etiology of rosacea is unknown;however, the follicular mite Demodex folliculorum ispredominant in rosacea and has been postulated as acausative factor [25].Table 1.
 The 1982 revised criteria for classification of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus.
 To meet the diagnostic criteria ofSystemic Lupus Erythematosus, at least, four out of the 11 criteria must be presented simultaneously, or insuccession.Criterion Definition1.
 Malar rash Fixed erythema over the malar eminences tending to spare the nasolabial folds2.
 Discoid rash Erythematous raised patches with keratotic scarring, may scar3.
 Photosensitivity Skin rash as a result of unusual reaction to sunlight4.
 Oral ulcers Oral or nasopharyngeal ulcers, usually painless5.
 Arthritis Nonerosive, involving two or more peripheral joints6.
 Serositis Pleuritis or pericarditis7.
 Renal disorder Persistent proteinuria (&gt; 3+) , or cellular casts8.
 Neurologic disorder Seizures or psychosis9.
 Hematologic disorder Hemolytic anemia, or Leukopenia, or Lymphopenia, or Thrombocytopenia10.
 Immunologic disorder Positive LE cell preparation, or Anti-DNA Ab, or Anti-Sm Ab, or False positiveserological test for syphilis11.
 Antinuclear antibodyAdapted from [32].
 685The red faceVol.
 3 No.
 6December 2009Rosacea is a clinical diagnosis with no reliableconfirmatory laboratory test [20].
 Its diagnosis isusually facilitated by the presence of symptoms suchas facial flushing, erythema, burning, or stingingsensation, as well as a history of triggering factors.Treatment of rosacea is usually long term and focusedon the presenting subtype.
 Ameliorating strategiesinvolve the use of non-irritating skin cleansers andsun blocks.
 Individual appropriate trigger identificationand avoidance may be beneficial in reducing flares.Interventions to induce remission of inflammatorypapules, pustules, and erythema include Benzoylyperoxide 2.5%, topical metronidazole gel andointments, and oral tetracyclines (tetracycline 250 mg-500 mg twice a day, doxycycline or minocycline50-100 mg once a day) [26].
 In addition, oralmetronidazole (500 mg per day) alone has beensuccessfully used by some physicians [23].
 Moreover,topical azaleic acid too has been used with resultscomparable to the topical use of metronidazole [27].Other agents such as isotretinoin which is morecommonly used in the treatment of severe acne hasbeen found to be also beneficial in treatingtelangiectasias and persistent papules, [28] whereasClonidine and, beta blockers (nadolol and propranolol)have been used to abate flushing associated withrosacea, but with debatable results [29, 30].
 Finally,other approaches involve Intense Pulsed Light (IPL)or other lasers for refractory erythema [31] andsurgical correction may be limited to rhinophymainvolvement.In conclusion, to summarize the above discussion,The salient features of these four common conditionsthat may present with a red face rash are outlined inTable 2.Table 2.
 The red face.Facial Erysipelas Malar rash Rosacea Erythemaof SLE infectiosumAcute Bacterial infection Chronic inflammatory Chronic acneiform Common benigninvolving the upper multi-systemic, disorder characterized childhood exanthematousdermis and superficial immunologic disease.
 by vascular dilatation illness.lymphatics of the skin.
 of the facial vesselsEpidemiology More commonly affects Young and middle aged Middle age and older Most commonly inYoung children and the women are most fair skinned adults.
 children 4-10 yrs, but mayelderly with a slight commonly affected Commoner in occasionally affect adultsfemale predominance.
 females but moreRecent trends show severe in malesincreasing incidence inadultsMorphology of Presents as a painful, Presents as an Frequent flushing Rash is often preceded bythe rash shiny, bright red, well- erythematous, slightly progressing to a short prodrome ofdefined, indurated, and raised edematous semi- persistent erythema general malaise and mildlesion that are sharply confluent, macular rash with inflammatory fever.
 The rash on the facedemarcated from the with telangectasia, and acneiform papules appears as red papules onsurrounding uninvolved fine scaling.
 The photo and pustules.
 the cheeks that rapidlyskin.
 Cutaneous edema sensitive rash lasts for a Comedones are coalesce to form blotchy,surrounding the hair few days before healing.
 absent.
 Fixed warm, edematous plaquesfollicles may give a It typically leaves no telangiectasia is a resembling the marks of a‘Peau‘d’ orange’ dimpled scarring, but often constant feature, and slapped cheek.
 A secondappearance.
 recurs.
 there may be some stage reticular rash overSerious cases may present Unlike rosacea it lacks associated stinging the trunk and extremitieswith bullate formation and pustules.
 and burning of the usually follows the facialsevere necrosis.
 affected areas.
 rash.Advanced casesmay present withrhinophyma-adisfigured nosecaused by soft tissuehyperplasia.
 686 I. Datta, et al.Table 2.
 The red face (continued).Facial Erysipelas Malar rash Rosacea Erythemaof SLE infectiosumAnatomical Central face.
 May be Classic malar rash that Central face, in a Commonly affects thedistribution unilateral initially, but extends over the cheeks Maltese cross cheeks with a typicalrapidly spreads to involve bridging the nose in a distribution involving sparing of the nasolabialthe butterfly area of the butterfly configuration.
 the nose, forehead, folds and often with aface.
 It may involve the It classically spares cheeks, and chin.
 The circum oral pallor.nasolabial folds, and the nasolabial folds and circum-oral, andspread to the ears peri-orbital areas.
 periorbital areas are(Milian’s ear sign), and typically spared.peri-orbital regions.Pre-disposing Breaches in the skin Onset or relapse may be The facial flushingFactors barrier due to local precipitated by may be induced bytrauma, infection and exposure to sunlight or many things includingsuperficial abrasions, UV-B light, stress, sunlight, alcohol, hotdiabetes, prolonged surgery, or pregnancy.
 and spicy foods,corticosteroid therapy, emotions, and someimmunosuppression, medications.radiation, and cancerchemotherapy.Associated Fever and chills, Low grade fever, Ocular involvement Non-specific flu likesymptoms Regional malaise, weight including symptoms,lympadenopathy.
 changes, arthritis, and blepharoconjunctivitis arthralgia (80% adults),other symptoms due to occurs in &gt;50% of transient aplastic crisis,pulmonary, renal, the patients chronic anemia, and fetalcardiac, hematological, women complications inneurological, or ocular pregnant.involvement.Microbiology/ Primarily Beta hemolytic Exact cause is Exact cause is Human Parvovirus B 19.Etiology streptococcus-Gr A unknown.
 Hereditary, unknown.
 AnOccasionally other groups environmental, and abnormal vascularof beta hemolytic hormonal factors may response to heat andstreptococci, Staph aureus play a contributory other stimuli hasincluding MRSA,Strep role.
 been implicated.pneumonia, H Influenzae, and The hair follicular mites-Y enterocolitica.
 Demodex folliculorumis increased in rosaceaand has been proposedas a causative theory.Diagnosis Based mainly on clinical Evaluation of other Based mainly on Based on clinical features,manifestations, systemic signs.
 clinical findings.
 immunofluorescence nucleic acid amplificationDirect detection of shows immunoglobulin testing (NAAT).streptococcal antigen, deposits along theBiopsy showing diffuse dermo-epidermaldermal edema with junction.dilated capillaries, andneutrophil filledlymphatics with bacteria.
 687The red faceVol.
 3 No.
 6December 2009The authors have no conflict of interest to report.References1.
 Masmoudi A, Maaloul I, Turki H, Elloumi Y, MarrekchiS, Bouassida S, et al.
 Erysipelas after breast cancertreatment (26 cases).
 Dermatol Online J.
 2005;11:12.2.
 Ben Salah H, Siala W, Maaloul I, Bouzid F, Frikha M,Daoud J. Erysipelas after breast cancer treatment.
 [in French].
 Tunis Med.
 2002; 80:465-8.3.
 El Saghir NS, Otrock ZK, Bizri AR, Uwaydah MM,Oghlakian GO.
 Erysipelas of the upper extremityfollowing locoregional therapy for breast cancer.Breast.
 2005;14:347-51.4.
 Ochs MW, Dolwick MF.
 Facial Erysipelas: report of acase and review of the literature.
 J Oral Maxillofac Surg.1991; 49:1116-20.5.
 Celestin R, Brown J, Kihiczak G, Schwartz RA.Erysipelas: a common potentially dangerous infection.Acta Dermatovenerol Alp Panonica Adriat.
 2007; 16:123-7.6.
 Grosshans EM.
 The red face: erysipelas.
 Clin Dermatol.1993;11:307-13.7.
 Swartz MN.
 Clinical practice.
 Cellulitis.
 N Engl J Med.2004; 350:904-12.8.
 Dreizen S. The butterfly rash and the malar flush.What diseases do these signs reflect?
 Postgrad Med.1991; 89:225-8, 233-4.9.
 Buckland GT 3rd, Carlson JA, Meyer DR. Persistentperiorbital and facial lymphedema associated withGroup A beta-hemolytic streptococcal infection(erysipelas).
 Ophthal Plast Reconstr Surg.
 2007; 23:161-3.10.
 Cupps TR, Cotton DJ, Schooley RT, Fauci AS.
 Facialerysipelas in the immunocompromised host.
 Reportof two cases.
 Arch Dermatol.
 1981; 117:47-9.11.
 Plummer FA, Hammond GW, Forward K, Sekla L,Thompson LM, Jones SE, et al.
 An erythemainfectiosum-like illness caused by human parvovirusinfection.
 N Engl J Med.
 1985; 313:74-9.12.
 Feder HM Jr, Anderson I.
 Fifth disease.
 A brief reviewof infections in childhood, in adulthood, andpregnancy.
 Arch Intern Med.
 1989; 149:2176-8.13.
 Young NS, Brown KE.
 Parvovirus B19.
 N Engl J Med.2004; 350:586-97.14.
 Servey JT, Reamy BV, Hodge J.
 Clinical presentationsof parvovirus B19 infection.
 Am Fam Physician.
 2007;75:373-6.15.
 Anderson MJ, Higgins PG, Davis LR, Willman JS,Jones SE, Kidd IM, et al.
 Experimental parvoviralinfection in humans.
 J Infect Dis.
 1985; 152:257-65.16.
 Kurtzman G, Frickhofen N, Kimball J, Jenkins DW,Nienhuis AW, Young NS.
 Pure red-cell aplasia of10 years’ duration due to persistent parvovirus B19infection and its cure with immunoglobulin therapy.N Engl J Med.
 1989; 321:519-23.17.
 Jabonska S, Baszczyk-Kostanecka M, Chorzelski T,Jarzabek-Chorzelska M. The red face: lupuserythematosus.
 Clin Dermatol.
 1993; 11:253-60.18.
 George R, Kurian S, Jacob M, Thomas K. Diagnosticevaluation of the lupus band test in discoid andsystemic lupus erythematosus.
 Int J Dermatol.
 1995;34:170-3.19.
 Brown MM, Yount WJ.
 Skin immunopathology insystem lupus erythematosus.
 JAMA.
 1980; 243:38-42.20.
 Crawford GH, Pelle MT, James WD.
 Rosacea: I.Etiology, pathogenesis, and subtype classification.J Am Acad Dermatol.
 2004; 51:327-41; quiz 342-4.21.
 Wilkin J, Dahl M, Detmar M, Feinstein A, Odom R,Table 2.
 The red face (continued).Facial Erysipelas Malar rash Rosacea Erythemaof SLE infectiosumTreatment Penicillin V, G Avoidance of sun Topical Rash itself requires noCephalosporin, exposure, metronidazole and treatment.
 Depending onErythromycin sunblocks, hydrochloroq azelaic acid, Tretinoin symptoms and severity,uins, methotrexate and and Permethrin others may require IVIG,mycophenolate mofetil cream, oral blood transfusions or(steroid sparing agents), antibiotics including simple anti-inflammatoryand cyclophosphamide.
 tetracycline, drugs for the arthralgia.doxycycline,minocycline, Laser,and intense pulselight, and photodynamictherapy.
 688 I. Datta, et al.Powell F. Standard classification of rosacea:Report of the National Rosacea Society ExpertCommittee on the Classification and Staging ofRosacea.
 J Am Acad Dermatol.
 2002; 46:584-7.22.
 Powell FC.
 Clinical practice.
 Rosacea.
 N Engl J Med.2005; 352:793-803.23.
 Rebora A.
 The red face: rosacea.
 Clin Dermatol.1993;11:225-34.24.
 Gudmundsen KJ, O’Donnell BF, Powell FC.
 Schirmertesting for dry eyes in patients with rosacea.
 J AmAcad Dermatol.
 1992; 26:211-214.25.
 Roihu T, Kariniemi AL.
 Demodex mites in acnerosacea.
 J Cutan Pathol.
 1998; 25:550-2.26.
 Dahl MV, Katz HI, Krueger GG, Millikan LE, Odom RB,Parker F, et al.
 Topical metronidazole maintainsremissions of rosacea.
 Arch Dermatol.1998;134:679-83.27.
 Elewski BE, Fleischer AB Jr, Pariser DM.
 A comparisonof 15% azelaic acid gel and 0.75% metronidazole gelin the topical treatment of papulopustular rosacea:results of a randomized trial.
 Arch Dermatol.
 2003;139:1444-50.28.
 Hoting E, Paul E, Plewig G. Treatment of rosacea withisotretinoin.
 Int J Dermatol.
 1986; 25:660-3.29.
 Wilkin JK.
 Effect of subdepressor clonidine onflushing reactions in rosacea.
 Change in malar thermalcirculation index during provoked flushing reactions.Arch Dermatol.
 1983; 119:211-4.30.
 Wilkin JK.
 Effect of nadolol on flushing reactions inrosacea.
 J Am Acad Dermatol.
 1989; 20:202-5.31.
 Angermeier MC.
 Treatment of facial vascular lesionswith intense pulsed light.
 J Cutan Laser Ther.
 1999; 1:95-100.32.
 Tan EM, Cohen AS, Fries JF, Masi AT, McShane DJ,Rothfield NF, et al .
 The 1982 revised criteria for theclassification of systemic lupus erythematosus.Arthritis Rheum.
 The "malar rash" of SLE is characterized by welldemarcated erythema and edema over malar areas, connected over the bridge of the nose.
 [26] It classically spares the nasolabial folds and peri-orbital area in contrast with other facial eruptions like erysipelas and seborrheic dermatitis.
 ...... Other case reports that seems to fit in the RP are diltiazem-induced morbilliform drug eruption that spared seborrheic keratoses, [35] widespread maculopapular drug reaction to phenobarbital that spared nevus depigmentosus, [36] guttate psoriasis sparing Becker's melanosis, [37] and widespread drug reaction that spared psoriatic plaques.
 [38] ROSACEA SPARES CIRCUM-ORAL AND PERI-ORBITAL AREAS In rosacea, the circum-oral and peri-orbital areas are typically spared, [26] in contrast with other facial dermatosis like seborrheic dermatitis.
 ...Sparing phenomena in dermatologyArticleFull-text availableJul 2013 Jaheersha PakranDespite considerable overlap, the confusion hovering over the four common sparing signs can be cleared as follows: Reverse Koebner relates to sparing by physical trauma; isotopic non-response/reverse isotopic response relates to sparing over an already healed dermatosis; Renbok Phenomenon relates to sparing among two concomitant active diseases often with autoimmune etiology; anatopic phenomenon relates to sparing caused by presence of certain infectious diseases of skin.
 Therefore, it may be said that astute clinician is the one who will look, not only for the presence of lesions in the patient but also for the conspicuous absence thereof.ViewShow abstractCriteria for the classification of systemic lupus erythematosus (proposed 1982 revision)ArticleJan 1982Arthritis Rheum Eng M TanA.S.
 Cohen James F FriesViewFacial erysipelas in the immunocompromised host.
 Report of two casesArticleJan 1981ARCH DERMATOLT.
 R. CuppsViewDiagnostic Evaluation of Lupus Band Test in Discoid Lupus Erythematosus and Systemic Lupus ErythematosusArticleApr 1995Int J Dermatol Renu elizabeth GeorgeSusy Kurien Merilin Jacob Kurien ThomasThe usefulness of the lupus band test (LBT) in the diagnosis of cutaneous lupus erythematosus remains controversial.
 The study was done to determine the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of the LBT in discoid lupus erythematosus (DLE) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
 During the study period, 32 patients with SLE and 28 patients with DLE were included.
 The final classification of cases was based on the American Rheumatism Association Criteria (ARA) for SLE, histopathology, and consensus of the clinical staff.
 Thirty controls, 15 each for DLE and SLE, were chosen from a group of patients, who had lesions clinically simulating DLE and SLE, but could be excluded by histopathology, laboratory tests, and follow-up.
 Histopathologic examinations and direct immunofluorescence (DIF) tests were done on lesional skin.
 In DLE, the sensitivity of the LE band test was 58% and the specificity 87%.
 The positive predictive value was 95% and negative predictive value was 32%.
 In SLE the sensitivity was 93% and specificity 87%.
 The positive predictive value was 64% and negative predictive value 98%.
 The high negative predictive value of LBT in SLE suggests that it is valuable in excluding diseases clinically similar to SLE.ViewShow abstractP099 Topical metronidazole maintains remissions of rosaceaArticleSep 1997J EUR ACAD DERMATOL Mark V DahlH.
 Irving Katz Gerald KruegerBrenda ReusserViewSchirmer testing for dry eyes in patients with rosaceaArticleMar 1992J AM ACAD DERMATOLKen J. GudmundsenB F O'Donnell Frank C PowellDry eyes have been reported in a significantly greater number of patients with ocular rosacea than in control subjects.
 Our purpose was to assess the incidence of dry eyes in patients with cutaneous rosacea and to compare this with a control population.
 With the use of the Schirmer test without anesthesia, the amount of aqueous tear secretion of 32 consecutive patients (16 women, 16 men) with rosacea was compared with that of 32 psoriasis patients (16 women, 16 men) without rosacea who served as age- and sex-matched controls.
 Two criteria, 5 mm and 8 mm of strip wetting, were used to indicate the lower limit of normal aqueous tear secretion.
 Of rosacea patients, 56.3% had less than 8 mm of strip wetting compared with 25% of control patients (p less than 0.02).
 Of rosacea patients, 40.6% had less than 5 mm of strip wetting compared with 18.75% of controls (p less than 0.10).
 The results of this study suggest that dry eyes occur frequently in rosacea.
 It is important that dermatologists and ophthalmologists be aware of the frequency of dry eyes in rosacea, so that patients are investigated and appropriate therapy can be provided.ViewShow abstractThe butterfly rash and the malar flush.
 What diseases do these signs reflect?ArticleFeb 1991POSTGRAD MEDSamuel DreizenThe butterfly rash and malar flush are common facial manifestations of several disorders.
 Systemic lupus erythematosus may produce a transient rash before any other signs.
 In pellagra, symmetric keratotic areas on the face are always accompanied by lesions elsewhere on the body.
 Erysipelas produces brawny, fiery red facial lesions, and scarlet fever causes facial eruptions as part of a generalized eruption.
 Lupus vulgaris and lupus pernio produce nodules that may spread in a butterfly pattern, and seborrheic dermatitis has a predilection for the malar prominences and other areas of the face.
 Deep-red rashes and/or lichenoid lesions may be caused by graft-versus-host disease in a patient undergoing bone marrow transplantation.ViewShow abstractFacial erysipelas: Report of a case and review of the literatureArticleNov 1991J ORAL MAXIL SURGMark W. OchsM.
 Franklin DolwickThe diagnosis of erysipelas is usually made clinically.
 Features that help distinguish erysipelas are acute onset, erythema, warmth, edema, pain, fever, and isolated regional involvement with clearly demarcated margins.
 High ASO titers and response to penicillin therapy are reassuring.
 Simple uncomplicated erysipelas or cellulitis in adults can usually be treated on an outpatient basis.
 Extensive facial involvement with fever and a toxic appearance warrants hospitalization.
 Facial cellulitis or erysipelas in children, unless quite limited, requires hospitalization because of the high risk of Hemophilus influenzae infection and sepsis.
 Hospitalized patients should show visible signs of resolution and be afebrile for at least 24 hours prior to discharge.
 They should be maintained on oral antibiotic therapy at home for an additional 7 to 10 days.ViewShow abstractEffect of nadolol on flushing reactions in rosaceaArticleMar 1989J AM ACAD DERMATOLJonathan K. WilkinThe effect of nadolol versus placebo on both flushing provoked in a laboratory setting and spontaneous flushing was studied in 15 patients with erythematous telangiectatic rosacea.
 The intensity of the flushing reactions was assessed in the laboratory by the cutaneous perfusion index method with laser-Doppler velocimetry.
 No effect of nadolol on the flushing reactions provoked in the laboratory was detected.ViewShow abstractPure Red-Cell Aplasia of 10 Years' Duration Due to Persistent Parvovirus B19 Infection and Its Cure with Immunoglobulin TherapyArticleSep 1989NEW ENGL J MEDGary Kurtzman Norbert FrickhofenJanice Kimball Nick YoungPARVOVIRUS B19 is the etiologic agent of transient aplastic crisis, an acute episode of bone marrow failure in persons with underlying hemolysis.1 , 2 In tissue-culture studies, parvovirus B19 infects3 and replicates4 in erythroid progenitor cells.
 The pathophysiologic basis of acute marrow failure in patients is viral tropism and cytotoxicity for erythroid progenitor cells.5 , 6 In experimental7 and natural8 infections, the infection is terminated with the development of specific antibodies, which neutralize the activity of the virus in vitro.9 In the immunocompromised host who is unable to produce neutralizing antibody,10 an infection with parvovirus B19 can persist and cause chronic bone marrow failure, .
 .
 ... [more]View projectProjectCase report Niel Shah John Greene Sowmya NanjappaView projectProjectHIV malignancy Nancy Rihana John Greene Sowmya Nanjappa[...]Narach TienchaiView projectArticleSong of Some Ruins, and: Choose, and: Love, That HugenessJanuary 2008 · Prairie SchoonerMarilyn KryslIn lieu of an abstract, here is a brief excerpt of the content:  Song of Some Ruins  It’s no use walking the beasts of my longing without you, compañero, you whose name means stone the sun  moves across.
 Remember our house, and the statuary of clouds drifting through the rooms?
 And the sheets and blankets of our habits,  and ourselves two hounds lying down.
 We loved like we fought, slugging our ... [Show full abstract] way toward each other, sending up flares to announce our advance.
 And when our city  burned, we stood in the ashes, and admired each other’s bodies.
 Now I ask you: how will we manage  without the steadiness of our long unhappiness?
 Can you say you don’t miss our furious  putting up with each other?
 The silver waves go on polishing themselves.
 The sun goes down alone.
 Tell me: is this as it should be?
 My body  goes on without you burnishing its crevices.
 Without your faults, there is no salt.
 I will not again be fat.
 Even my hair will abandon me, like a woman walking away  until you can’t see her.
 So what if I’m given other dawns?
 I ache for the grandeur of uproar.
 Light  brings on its armadas of taxis and butterflies, and I’m forced to go into the street  and talk to agreeable strangers.
 Choose  The expected one and the unexpected The erect one and the one bent over  The one who says I’m talking too much and keeps talking The one too shy to meet your eyes  The fascinating one, and the not very, the one you’re maneuvering to avoid  and the one you turned away who comes again who again you turn away  This one that one the slender the fat one The one who is stream and the one who is stone  The wet one the dry one the low and the high one soaring over granite, its scatter of bone  The one just out of prison, the one just sentenced and the prison warden  The one who killed, and then ate the heart of each dead and the one who escaped alive  and you, as though standing before yourself, longing to be taken in—  know that whoever approaches is the one you’ve been looking for all these years  Know you are given many chances, as many as the seconds, the stars  Love, That Hugeness  Love snuggles us, and then Tagore warns: go on your knees, the All-Destroying  has come—and will hang around a while, then mosey on.
 A girl’s sob  and a cup of cream.
 A cup of cream and a gun.
 Things seem peachy keen,  then the peaches turn, and Marion Fisher, new breasts and a crush on a boy, stands  against the wall in the Amish schoolroom watching Charlie Rogers tie her wrists,  her ankles.
 Charlie, who rose in the dark, kissed his sleeping daughter’s cheek  and went off to sing the familiar hymn of delivering the morning’s cream.
 Stones  and bread, Simone Weil said, both comefrom Christ.
 And here come the shining  moments, yes, no, each moment we choose, and Marion too, at one time or another,  hurt the blooming world.
 It happens, we say, as though we didn’t have a choice.
 I didn’t mean to, I told my mother.
 Yes, she said, but you did it.
 Each moment  we choose, each moment we may change, here comes the next moment, don’t hurry,  there’s time—Charlie may say Wait, I don’tknow what got into me, I want to be bread.
 Instead Marion rose like cream spilling over, stood in that high place and put on shining  garments.
 Shoot me, she said, and let the othersgo.
 See them in that moment: they are like me,  like us.
 Love them both, and yourself.
 Both are stones.
 Both are bread.
 Marilyn Krysl  Marilyn Krysl’s work has appeared in Best American Short Stories, O. Henry Prize Stories, and the Pushcart Prize Anthology.
 Her fourth story collection, Dinner with Osama, won the Richard Sullivan Prize in 2008.
 Copyright © 2007 University of Nebraska Press  Project MUSE® - View Citation  MLA APA Chicago Endnote  Marilyn Krysl.
 "Song of Some Ruins, and: Choose, and: Love, That...Read moreArticleSevere Facial Edema and Chemosis in Systemic Lupus ErythematosusJanuary 2007 · Nishi Nihon HifukaAkiko SuzukiYoichi ShintaniIwao Isomura[...] Ryuzo UedaA 37-year-old woman presented with chemosis after a long period of sun exposure followed by facial edema.
 One month later, she visited our clinic because of fever and diarrhea.
 The first examination revealed severe chemosis, periorbital and facial edema, and faint erythema on her cheeks.
 Over the next few days, the facial edema worsened and a butterfly rash appeared.
 Biopsy specimen revealed ... [Show full abstract] basal layer degeneration and moderate perivascular inflammation.
 Laboratory values indicated leukopenia, thrombopenia, and hypocomplementemia.
 Antinuclear antibody and anti-ds DNA antibody were positive.
 Photosensitivity, oral ulceration, and serositis were also observed.
 Based on these findings, she was diagnosed as having SLE and given Prednisolon 25 mg/day.
 After the dosage of prednisolon was increased to 50 mg/day, symptoms and abnormal laboratory findings were improved.
 Although human parvovirus B19 IgM antibody was positive at the first laboratory examination, results later became negative.
 RIS BibTeX Plain TextWhat do you want to download?
 Citation only Citation and abstractDownloadDiscover the world's researchJoin ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your work.Join for free ResearchGate iOS AppGet it from the App Store now.InstallKeep up with your stats and moreAccess scientific knowledge from anywhere orDiscover by subject areaRecruit researchersJoin for freeLoginEmail Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as their ResearchGate loginPasswordForgot password?
 Keep me logged inLog inorContinue with LinkedInContinue with GoogleWelcome back!
 Please log in.Email · HintTip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as their ResearchGate loginPasswordForgot password?
 Keep me logged inLog inorContinue with LinkedInContinue with GoogleNo account?
