You can view today&apos;s paper or previous issues.
 Want full access?
 Credit: Journal Sentinel files   June 27, 2016    SHARE                 Related Coverage  Lincoln Hills officials failed to oversee rape investigations      By Mary Spicuzza of the Journal Sentinel  June 27, 2016   0                As many as 100 Milwaukee youths are still incarcerated at a troubled North Woods juvenile prison despite an ongoing federal probe of alleged abuses there.
 Milwaukee County judges said Monday that the number of juvenile offenders from the county currently being held at Lincoln Hills School for Boys and Copper Lake School for Girls has dropped significantly since news broke late last year that the facility was under investigation due to allegations of minors being abused by staff.But Milwaukee County Children's Court Judge Mary Triggiano said the fact that local youths were still being sent to the troubled state Department of Corrections facility was "appalling given what we know is going on there.
 ""Let's be perfectly clear, we are using Lincoln Hills and Copper Lake as placement for juveniles," Triggiano said Monday at a Common Council Public Safety Committee meeting.
 "The most high-risk, dangerous juveniles are going to Lincoln Hills.
 And that's an unfortunate situation we put those children, and those families, and this community in.
 "She and Milwaukee County Chief Judge Maxine White warned aldermen that those sent to Lincoln Hills are likely to reoffend, pointing to the youth prison's estimated 65% recidivism rate.White called the Lincoln Hills situation a "crisis," adding that the 120-bed Milwaukee detention center is already overcrowded.Local officials "have been working night and day" to find spots for serious offenders, and Milwaukee County officials have even reached out to Racine County to "get a few beds," White said.The 100 youths now at Lincoln Hills include about 50 in the state's serious juvenile offender program, which typically means they have a five-year sentence that includes three years in custody and two years of probation, Triggiano said.Monday's meeting at City Hall was the fifth in a series of special discussions Ald.
 Bob Donovan, chairman of the public safety committee, scheduled this summer to address violence in Milwaukee.The meeting frequently became heated as Donovan and Ald.
 Mark Borkowski pressed the judges over cases involving people accused of violent crimes being released on bail only to be arrested again.In one of the carjackings, a baby was still inside the vehicle.
 The suspect in that case allegedly stopped driving about a half block away from the robbery and placed the infant and his car seat on some grass before driving off, according to a criminal complaint.White warned against "revictimizing victims" by tainting cases, and refused to discuss any pending cases.
 "We do not prosecute in the press," White said.White also clashed with Borkowski after he said Milwaukee was "going to hell.
 ""I disagree with you strongly that Milwaukee is going to hell in a handbasket.
 I love this city," she said.
 "This is a small group of kids.
 If we are not smart enough to stop them in their tracks, then there is something wrong with us.
 "The first meeting featured a discussion with Milwaukee Police Chief Edward Flynn, the second was with Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm and his office and the third featured a representative from the state Department of Justice.
 On Friday, Milwaukee County Sheriff David A. Clarke Jr. spoke with the committee in the fourth meeting of the series.The Milwaukee County Board declared a "state of emergency" in February and called for removing all county teenagers from Lincoln Hills and Copper Lake.
 The number at that time was reported at 170 to 172.
 But progress removing youths has been slow, and local officials have bemoaned a lack of capacity in the county to treat juvenile offenders.
 About Mary Spicuzza Mary Spicuzza covers politics and breaking news for the Journal Sentinel.
