Menu             Hi,    Account Summary Donation History Personal Information Sign Out             Sign In                     Español              Your Local Red Cross    Based on Zip Code Change   Visit local site Find other locations       Shop the Red Cross Store                                 Donate       Ways to Donate Money    Donate Online   Stock Transfer   Monthly Gifts   Text, Mail, Or Phone   Peer-to-Peer Fundraising   Major Gifts      Where Your Money Goes    Your Gift Matters   Home Fire Campaign   Current Relief Efforts      Companies &amp; Foundations    Get Started   Partnership Opportunities   Our Corporate Partners   Other Ways to Give   Partners: Why We Give       Donate now to disaster relief &gt;&gt;          Give Blood      	How to Donate    Find a Blood Drive   Eligibility Requirements   Types of Blood Donations   How Blood Donations Help   Common Concerns      	Blood Donation Process    Donation Process Overview   What to do Before, During and After   What Happens to Donated Blood   First Time Blood Donors      	Learn About Hosting    Why Host a Blood Drive?
 Our need for volunteers is constant and continues to evolve as we navigate this health crisis.
 Please rest assured that we are working with public health officials to help keep local communities and our volunteer safe.
 Volunteer opportunities include supporting blood donations and delivering much-needed services to your community.
 Find Urgently Needed Volunteer Opportunities      Explore All Volunteer Opportunities  The American Red Cross has an ongoing critical need for blood and platelet donations amidst coronavirus uncertainties.
 You can make an appointment to give blood or platelets at RedCrossBlood.org.
 Program Overview The Holiday Mail for Heroes program is now Holidays for Heroes.
 There is no longer a national Holiday Mail for Heroes P.O.
 Box to which cards are sent.
 Please contact your local Red Cross office for details.
 The children of Senator Ben Sasse sign holiday cards during the Holiday Mail for Heroes Event.
 Photo by Danuta Otfinowski/American Red Cross                  Rep. Tom McArthur and his wife, Debbie, and Rep. Glenn Thompson sign holiday cards during the Holiday Mail for Heroes event.
 Photo by Danuta Otfinowski/American Red Cross                            Frequently Asked Questions                     What is the Holidays for Heroes Program?
 The Red Cross Holidays for Heroes program enables Americans to “Give Something That Means Something” this holiday season and other holidays year-round.
 Please check with your local Red Cross office for details.
 What is the address of the P.O.
 Box for the program?
 There is no longer a national P.O.
 Box for the program.
 Instead, Holidays for Heroes is being conducted at the Red Cross office in your local community.
 Check with your local Red Cross for times and locations of events and for opportunities to get involved.
 Why is the Red Cross moving to a different program?
 We have made this change for several reasons including:  The new structure provides Red Cross regions with greater flexibility to develop the program to meet the specific needs of their community.
 Fewer U.S. military forces are serving in deployed locations overseas at this time.
 Donate Now   Support all the urgent humanitarian needs of the American Red Cross.
 $1000   $500   $250   $125   $75     $     $10 is the minimum online donation.
 DONATE NOW                      /content/redcross/en/volunteer/volunteer-opportunities/holidays-for-heroes             © 2020 The American National Red Cross  Terms of Use  Privacy Policy  Contact Us  FAQ  Mobile Apps  Give Blood        _satellite.pageBottom();
