Publisher Gary Schwitzer and other contributors may post new articles periodically.
 But all of the 6,000+ articles we have published contain lessons to help you improve your critical thinking about health care interventions.
 And those will be still be alive on the site for a couple of years.
 Story Reviews News Release Review Blog Posts    6151 Posts 2616 Story Reviews 606 News Release Reviews 2929 Blog Posts   Home Story Reviews News Release Reviews Blog Podcasts About Us Editorial Team What We Review and How Review Criteria How Is the Star Score Determined?
 It is skimpier than than the TIME article on some of the biological novelty of the new drug, but overall does a better job of informing readers and professionals of the slow slog many novel drugs must take before they are demonstrated safe, effective and affordable for those who may benefit.
 Why This MattersThe anti-inflammatory scientific arc is littered with the consequences of less-than-stellar clinical results, overblown expectations and pharmaceutical industry high-stakes business gambles.
 That makes it especially important for news organizations to cover the subject area with the utmost care and context–this story took pains to do so.
 Criteria  Does the story adequately discuss the costs of the intervention?
 Satisfactory This article does a great job of noting the cost and pricing issues inherent in the drug company’s efforts to develop, test and market novel biologicals.
 The headlong rush to “personalized” medicine, pharmacogenetic approaches to treatment, limited resources even in wealthy nations with gold-plated insurance policies, and the opacity of drug industry research costs make it imperative to explain to the public the realities of medicine’s pricing system.
 Does the story adequately quantify the benefits of the treatment/test/product/procedure?
 Not Satisfactory The thoughtful reader will understand that the benefits are modest, as indicated by the well-written headline and carefully worded opening sentence.
 However, missing from the story was a discussion of the study findings in absolute terms.
 The story says the study that “heart-attack survivors on one of three doses of canakinumab were 15 percent less likely to suffer another major cardiac event than those on a placebo.” What does this mean in absolute numbers?
 The way researchers measured it was in events per 100 person-years, and the “events” were non-fatal heart attack, non-fatal stroke, or death from a cardiovascular reason.
 In the placebo group, there were 4.50 cardiac events per 100 person-years.
 In the group receiving 150 mg doses of canakinumab, there were 3.86 events per 100 person years.
 Does the story adequately explain/quantify the harms of the intervention?
 Satisfactory From the get-go, readers are told there are risks to keep in mind.
 This was entirely absent from the TIME story we reviewed.
 That said, we wish this Reuters story had discussed the harms more in-depth–how frequent were they?
 How severe?
 Does the story seem to grasp the quality of the evidence?
 Not Satisfactory This was a randomized, placebo controlled clinical trial with a large number of patients.
 The story doesn’t explain this, nor any of the study’s limitations.
 Does the story commit disease-mongering?
 Satisfactory No mongering here.
 Does the story use independent sources and identify conflicts of interest?
 Satisfactory This story, which is more of a “business of medicine” story, uses a drug industry analyst source to good effect, and included commentary from the study’s accompanying editorial.
 Does the story compare the new approach with existing alternatives?
 Not Satisfactory Both this story and the TIME story don’t mention that there are many effective and less expensive alternatives to secondary cardiac disease prevention, such as smoking cessation, aspirin, statins, blood pressure control, etc.
 Does the story establish the availability of the treatment/test/product/procedure?
 Does the story establish the true novelty of the approach?
 Satisfactory The story does a pretty good job of explaining what is novel about the the drug’s effects and targeting.
 Does the story appear to rely solely or largely on a news release?
 Satisfactory The story does not appear to rely on the news release.
 Total Score: 7 of 10 Satisfactory  You might also like   Speculation overshadows caution in HealthDay's snake venom-derived blood thinner story Bloomberg story provides clear-eyed view of trendy neurofeedback brain-training clinics Strong on context, light on data: Reuters Health story on chondroitin for knee pain  Comments Please note, comments are no longer published through this website.
 All previously made comments are still archived and available for viewing through select posts.
 × Our Comments Policy We welcome comments, which users can leave at the end of any of our systematic story reviews or at the end of any of our blog posts.
 But before leaving a comment, please review these notes about our policy.
 You are responsible for any comments you leave on this site.
 This site is primarily a forum for discussion about the quality (or lack thereof) in journalism or other media messages (advertising, marketing, public relations, medical journals, etc.)
 It is not intended to be a forum for definitive discussions about medicine or science.
 We will delete comments that include personal attacks, unfounded allegations, unverified claims, product pitches, profanity or any from anyone who does not list a full name and a functioning email address.
 We will also end any thread of repetitive comments.
 We don”t give medical advice so we won”t respond to questions asking for it.
 We don”t have sufficient staffing to contact each commenter who left such a message.
 If you have a question about why your comment was edited or removed, you can email us at feedback@healthnewsreview.org.
 There has been a recent burst of attention to troubles with many comments left on science and science news/communication websites.
 Read “Online science comments:  trolls, trash and treasure.” The authors of the Retraction Watch comments policy urge commenters: “Shed light, not just heat.
 Facts, challenges, disagreements, corrections — those are all fine.
 Attacking the person, instead of the idea or the interpretation, is neither acceptable nor helpful.” We”re also concerned about anonymous comments.
 We ask that all commenters leave their full name and provide an actual email address in case we feel we need to contact them.
 We may delete any comment left by someone who does not leave their name and a legitimate email address.
 And, as noted, product pitches of any sort – pushing treatments, tests, products, procedures, physicians, medical centers, books, websites – are likely to be deleted.
 We don”t accept advertising on this site and are not going to give it away free.
 The ability to leave comments expires after a certain period of time.
 So you may find that you’re unable to leave a comment on an article that is more than a few months old.
 You might also like   Speculation overshadows caution in HealthDay's snake venom-derived blood thinner story Bloomberg story provides clear-eyed view of trendy neurofeedback brain-training clinics Strong on context, light on data: Reuters Health story on chondroitin for knee pain   	Story Reviews  Systematic, Criteria-Driven News Organizations’ Overall Grades  @HealthNewsRevu Retweet on TwitterHealthNewsReview.org RetweetedPaul John Scott@pauljohnscott·@garyschwitzer has been a trailblazer in protecting us from bamboozled health reporting.
 Thrilled to get his endorsement here for #Malcharist, which fictionalizes problems he first helped us see.
 https://twitter.com/garyschwitzer/status/1310190671555375109Reply on Twitter 1310210060212150273Retweet on Twitter 13102100602121502732Like on Twitter 13102100602121502733Twitter 1310210060212150273HealthNewsReview.org@HealthNewsRevu·How #COVID19 drug/vaccine decisions might be based on results in dozens of people, not the thousands we read about in the daily tsunami of news about the race in competing trials.
 https://www.healthnewsreview.org/2020/09/how-covid-19-drug-vaccine-decisions-might-be-based-on-little-evidence/ Reply on Twitter 1309174175370747909Retweet on Twitter 13091741753707479095Like on Twitter 13091741753707479095Twitter 1309174175370747909Retweet on TwitterHealthNewsReview.org RetweetedJAMA Internal Medicine@JAMAInternalMed·Major revisions + reversals of reporting about the efficacy of remdesivir and HCQ have compromised the public's trust in scientists and physicians.
