Skip to main content                                                               Home           Information on vaccines                 Vaccines in the UK                 The UK immunisation schedule           Routine childhood vaccines                 6-in-1 Vaccine           Rotavirus Vaccine           MenB Vaccine (Meningococcal B Vaccine)           PCV (Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine)           Hib/MenC Vaccine           MMR Vaccine (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Vaccine)           Nasal Flu Vaccine           Pre-school Booster           HPV Vaccine (Human Papillomavirus Vaccine)           Teenage Booster Vaccine           MenACWY Vaccine                  Routine adult vaccines                 Inactivated Flu Vaccine           Shingles Vaccine           PPV (Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Vaccine)                  Vaccines in pregnancy                 General information about vaccines in pregnancy           Pertussis (whooping cough) vaccine in pregnancy           Flu vaccine in pregnancy                  Vaccines for special groups                 Hepatitis A Vaccine           Hepatitis B Vaccine           BCG Vaccine (TB vaccine)           Chickenpox (Varicella) Vaccine                  General information on vaccines                  Vaccines previously in the UK schedule                 5-in-1 Vaccine           MenC Vaccine                  Vaccination schedules in other countries           New vaccines in development                 General information on vaccines in development           Group B Streptococcus           Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV)                  FAQs about vaccines                  Information on infectious diseases                 Chickenpox (Varicella)           Diphtheria           Hepatitis A           Hepatitis B           Hib disease (Haemophilus influenzae type b)           HPV (Human Papillomavirus)           Influenza (flu)           Measles           Meningococcal disease           Mumps           Pertussis (Whooping Cough)           Pneumococcal disease           Polio (Poliomyelitis)           Rotavirus           Rubella (German Measles)           Shingles           Tetanus           Tuberculosis (TB)           Coronavirus COVID-19                  Vaccine safety and science                 General vaccine safety           Vaccine ingredients                 Gelatine in vaccines                  Vaccine side effects and adverse reactions           Combination vaccines and multiple vaccinations           How vaccines are tested, licensed and monitored           Vaccines and premature babies           Herd immunity (herd protection)           Disease in vaccinated populations           What is a vaccine, and how do vaccines work?
 It is much more severe than the common cold and often results in at least 2-3 days in bed, leading to missed work and school days.
 For some at-risk groups, flu can be very dangerous.
 Flu complications lead to tens of thousands of hospital stays and an average of 600 deaths in the UK every year.
 This page provides information about: Key facts about the inactivated flu vaccine Who is eligible and how to get the vaccine?
 How effective is the NHS flu immunisation programme?
 Gigi’s story – long term effects of flu Why do we need the flu vaccine every year?
 Safety and side effects Ingredients Key vaccine factsIn the UK the flu vaccine is available each year from late September or early October onwards.
 It is recommended to get the flu vaccine in the autumn, before outbreaks of flu have started.
 It takes up to two weeks after vaccination for you to be protected against flu.
 In the 2019-20 season, more than 14 million adults and children were vaccinated against flu across the UK.
 The inactivated flu vaccine does not contain any live flu viruses and cannot give you flu.
 In the 2020-21  season, three different types of inactivated flu vaccine will be offered in the UK, as well as the nasal flu vaccine.
 Who should have the vaccine?In 2020/21 flu season, the following people are eligible to receive the flu vaccine for free: All children aged two to eleven on 31stAug 2020 (see Nasal Flu vaccine) Those aged 65 or over (including those becoming 65 by 31stMarch 2021) Pregnant women (see Vaccines in Pregnancy: Flu) Those in long-term residential care homes Carers Health and social care workers Household contacts of those on the NHS shielded patient list or of immunocompromised individuals Those aged 6 months to 65 years in at-risk groups including people with the following health conditions: Respiratory (lung) diseases, including asthma Heart disease, kidney disease or liver disease Neurological (brain or nerve) conditions including learning disability Diabetes (see a short film of a woman with Type 1 diabetes talking about why she gets the flu vaccine) A severely weakened immune system (immunosuppression), a missing spleen, sickle cell anaemia or coeliac disease Being seriously overweight (BMI of 40 and above)  Additionally, in 2020/21, flu vaccinations might be offered under the NHS flu programme to the following groups: Individuals aged 50-64, subject to vaccine availability Babies under 6 months old are too young to receive a flu vaccine.
 This is because they have maternal antibodies passed on from their mother which prevent the vaccine from working so well.
 Flu vaccination is offered to all pregnant women in the UK (see Vaccines in Pregnancy: Flu).
 As well as protecting pregnant women themselves, this also helps to protect their newborn babies from flu.
 Your doctor may recommend the flu vaccine in other circumstances as well.
 How effective is the NHS flu immunisation programme?The flu vaccine works better in some years than others (see ‘Why do we need the flu vaccine every year?’ below).
 Across all age groups including children, the flu vaccine prevented 15-52% of flu cases between 2015 - 2020 (see research by Public Health England on the effectiveness of flu vaccines in the 2015-16 season, 2016-17 season, 2017-18 season, 2018-19 season and 2019-20 season).
 In children aged 2-17, the flu vaccine prevented 66% of flu cases in 2016-17, 27% of flu cases in 2017-18, and 49% of flu cases in 2018-19.
 However, in the over 65 age group the inactivated flu vaccine worked less well than it did in other adults and children.
 In 2016-17, the data suggest that the inactivated flu vaccine did not work at all in people aged over 65, whilst in 2017-2018 it resulted in slightly better results in that age group.
 Due to the lower effectiveness of the inactivated flu vaccine in older people, a vaccine containing an adjuvant was introduced for the 2018-19 season.
 This is a substance that strengthens and lengthens the immune response to the vaccine and resulted in better prevention of flu in people aged 65 or over in 2018-19 and 2019-20 seasons.
 The adjuvanted vaccine is still recommended for this age group in the 2020-21 season.
 It is not understood why flu vaccines do not work so well in older adults.
 However, this reinforces the importance of vaccinating children and healthcare workers, both of whom can help to stop the spread of flu to older adults.
 Gigi’s story – long term effects of fluGigi ended up in intensive care after coming down with flu and has been left with long-term effects.
 Grateful thanks to Shot by Shot  for permission to use this film.
 Safety and side effectsThe inactivated flu vaccine does not contain the live virus and cannot cause flu.
 Flu vaccines have a very good safety record.
 The most commonly reported side effects of flu vaccines are: pain, swelling, bruising, hardness or redness at the injection site slightly raised temperature (fever) headache sweating aching joints or muscles shivering tiredness feeling generally unwell A higher rate of these common side effects has been reported with Fluad, the adjuvanted trivalent vaccine (aTIV) which is recommended for people aged 65 and over.
 Side effects usually last 1-2 days.
 There are several different makes of flu vaccine available each year.
 For more information on side effects, ask for the Patient Information Leaflet for the vaccine you are offered.
 Additional information about vaccine side effects, anaphylaxis and adverse reactions can be found here.
 Why do we need the flu vaccine every year?Flu vaccines have an excellent safety record.
 They are the best protection we have against an unpredictable virus which can cause severe illness and deaths each year among at-risk groups.
 Each year there are different strains around, and a new vaccine has to be prepared to deal with them.
 Vaccination from previous years is not likely to protect people against current strains of flu.
 Each year’s flu vaccine is made to give the best protection against the strains of flu that are expected to circulate in the coming season.
 The trivalent vaccine protects against three of the flu virus strains which are most likely to be around.
 The quadrivalent vaccine protects against four flu virus strains.
 However, decisions about what to put in the flu vaccine have to be made six months before the flu season starts.
 Every February in the Northern Hemisphere, the World Health Organization (WHO) reviews the types of flu that have been circulating in all parts of the world and chooses the ones which will go into the vaccine for the following autumn.
 This allows time for the vaccine to be made – but it also gives the flu virus time to change before vaccination starts in the autumn.
 This means that sometimes the flu vaccine may not be a good match for all the strains of flu that are circulating.
 If they are successful, it will mean that people will only need a single flu vaccine to give them lifelong protection, instead of having a yearly vaccine.
 However, it will be several years before we find out if it is possible to do this.
 The viruses for flu vaccines are usually grown in hen’s eggs.
 This is a slow process and can lead to something called ‘egg adaptation’.
 The flu virus strain starts to adapt to the conditions in the egg, leading to changes in the virus.
 This is another reason that the flu vaccine may not always match the circulating strains of flu.
 For flu seasons since 2018-19, a new vaccine has been developed using cell culture instead of eggs.
 This vaccine is less likely to adapt as it has been developed using cells that are very similar to human cells.
 IngredientsSeveral different brands of flu vaccine are used in the UK each flu season.
 For full information on ingredients, ask for the Patient Information Leaflet for the vaccine you are offered or look the brand name up on the electronic Medicines Compendium (eMC) .
 Inactivated flu vaccines usually contain very small amounts of egg proteins (ovalbumin), as the virus is often grown on hens’ eggs.
 People who are allergic to eggs should ask their doctor for advice.
 With specialist medical advice, they may be able to receive a vaccine with a very low ovalbumin content or the cell-based quadrivalent vaccine as an alternative to those grown on eggs.
 See more information on egg proteins in vaccines.
 Public Health England produce an information sheet showing the ovalbumin content of flu vaccines  in the current flu season.
 Inactivated flu vaccines used in the UK often contain very small amounts of the following ingredients: Sodium and potassium salts, used as acidity regulators Polysorbate, used as an emulsifier (to hold other ingredients together) Fluad, the vaccine recommended for people aged 65 and over, contains a small amount of an adjuvant called MF59.
 Adjuvants are substances which help to strengthen and lengthen the immune response to the vaccine.
 The main ingredient in MF59 is squalene oil, a naturally-occurring oil found in humans, plants and animals.
 Flu vaccines may also contain tiny traces of these products used during the manufacturing process: antibiotics (gentamicin, neomycin, kanamycin or polymyxin), used to stop bacteria growing and contaminating the vaccine formaldehyde, an organic compound used to inactivate (kill) the viruses Page last updated: Wednesday, August 12, 2020                       Diseases                Influenza (flu)   Influenza (flu) is a very common, highly infectious disease caused by a virus.
 It can be very... Read more              Other vaccines in this category                Shingles Vaccine                 PPV (Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Vaccine)                                 © Oxford Vaccine Group 2020     Centre for Clinical Vaccinology and Tropical Medicine, Churchill Hospital, University of Oxford, OX3 7LE.
 Medical content reviewed by Professor Andrew Pollard.Please click here to contact us if you have comments about the Vaccine Knowledge website.
 We can’t answer all the individual queries we get, but we will use your suggestions and questions to improve the website.
 You should consult your doctor or other healthcare provider if you need specific advice on vaccines for you or your child.
 The Vaccine Knowledge Project is funded by the NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Centre and the Oxford Martin School.
 Freedom of Information | Privacy Policy | Cookies Statement | Copyright Statement | Accessibility Statement
