According to New York’s health department, more than 120 people visited an emergency room in the city in just one week in April.
 While the state banned the ingredients used to make K2 in 2012, distributors have switched to other ingredients and names in an attempt to circumvent the law.
 (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images) As of Thursday, April 5th, 89 people have been hospitalized in the city of Chicago and surrounding neighborhoods after ingesting synthetic cannabis known as K2 or Spice, according to the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH).Among the patients admitted for treatment, the largest numbers came from Chicago (24) and Peoria County (24) all of which experienced severe bleeding when they were admitted.
 The IDPH has reported two deaths since March 30th, with the first reports of poisoning beginning on March 10th.At least nine patients have tested positive for a substance known as brodifacoum, a chemical used in rat poison, with symptoms including nosebleeds, blood in urine, coughing up blood and bleeding gums.Synthetic cannabis is a man-made chemical compound designed to act on the cannabinoid receptors and is sprayed onto plant material to mimic the real thing.
 It can be smoked or vaporized just like real cannabis but is considered to be far more dangerous due to the unpredictability of its contents.NEW YORK, NY – JULY 14: A neighborhood resident holds up a ‘No K2’ sign, July 14, 2016 on the border of the Bedford-Stuyvesant and Bushwick neighborhoods in the Brooklyn borough of New York City.
 Following a wave of suspected K2 overdoes on Tuesday, New York City police raided five convenience stores on Wednesday.
 (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)“We continue to see the number of cases rise,” IDPH Director Nirav D. Shah said in a statement on April 2nd.
 “IDPH is continuing to work with local health departments and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, along with other partners, to try to identify common products.
 Without more information, IDPH does not know how much contaminated product is circulating or where.
 We strongly urge everyone not to use synthetic cannabinoids.”According to local reports, treatment for those who have been poisoned by synthetic cannabis is available so long as medical attention is sought.
 Following a wave of suspected K2 overdoes on Tuesday, New York City police raided five convenience stores on Wednesday.
 Without more information, IDPH does not know how much contaminated product is circulating or where.
 According to New York\u0026#8217;s health department, more than 120 people visited an emergency room in the city in just one week in April.
 While the state banned the ingredients used to make K2 in 2012, distributors have switched to other ingredients and names in an attempt to circumvent the law.
 The IDPH has reported two deaths since March 30th.
 ","fbTitle":"89 Hospitalized and 2 Dead in Illinois After Using Synthetic Marijuana","fbDescription":"Most experienced severe bleeding when they were admitted to the hospital.
 This piece of legislation gives states’ rights to regulate and legalize marijuana as they see fit.
 Previously Trump's Attorney General Jeff Sessions rescinded the Cole Memo.
 ","fbTitle":"BREAKING: Trump Just Promised To Support A Bill Giving States The Right To Legalize Cannabis","fbDescription":"According to statements made by Colorado Republican Senator Cory Gardner, President Trump will support the Cole Memo.
 Let's take a look at how much it would cost for one night of a dream weed vacation in a few major legal cities.
 Your curated experience includes a suggested eighth of flower, an edible, and a local pot tour.
 You're welcome.
 ","fbTitle":"How Much Does A Dream Weed Vacation Cost?
 ","fbDescription":"420 hotels, dispensary tours, and a whole lotta bud.
 That's backed up, of course, by tons of anecdotal evidence about sex and weed.
 A playful attitude in the bedroom can be quite hot.
 But, more and more, it's also reinforced by the latest scientific studies.
 Have you made weed part of your bedroom play?
 Here are five ways marijuana can make things steamier, real fast.
 ","fbTitle":"5 Ways Weed Makes Sex So Much Better","fbDescription":"Ever wondered why a hit or two heats things up?
 In the streaming era, physical copies of media seldom have a purpose, but only one copy of 'Once Upon A Time In Shaolin' exists and it was auctioned off in 2015.
 Shkreli had the winning bid of $2 million.
 ","fbTitle":"Why The Government Wants To Destroy A One Of A Kind Wu-Tang Clan Album","fbDescription":"It was auctioned off in 2015 for $2 million.
 The Ministry is additionally advising against using any \"unregistered cannabis products,\" i.e., black market weed.
 By way of comparison, top shelf dispensary weed in the U.S. and Canada typically runs between 20 and 25 percent THC.
 ","fbTitle":"Jamaica Tells Its Citizens To Stop Smoking Potent Marijuana","fbDescription":"Legal marijuana in the country is only allowed to have 5% THC.
 The joint handout is a demonstration to oppose new tax increases on marijuana.
 They found that the state experienced a growth in migration following a growth in their medical marijuana market and the legalization of recreational sales.
 ","fbTitle":"Colorado Experiences A Mass Migration After Legalizing Weed","fbDescription":"Ever considered moving to a legal state?
 A bill to simplify crossing the Canadian-U.S. border moved ahead in the U.S. Congress on Wednesday, with little time left to get it passed before lawmakers break to form a post-election legislature in the new year.
 That trouble could come at the US border where Customs and Border Patrol (USCBP) officers are known to deny Canadians entry for admitting to having smoked pot in the past.
 ","fbTitle":"Canadians Who Smoke Legal Marijuana Can Be Banned From the U.S.","fbDescription":"If a US border official asks if you've smoked marijuana before, saying \"yes\" could result in denied entry.
 But lying means a lifetime ban.
 Mexico City, Mexico on April 21, 2016.
 However, perhaps Mexico doesn’t need politicians to legalize cannabis.
 That’s because the Supreme Court also has the power to enact laws in the country, and one of its eleven judges has his sights on legal weed.
 ","fbTitle":"Mexico's Supreme Court Considers Legalizing Marijuana","fbDescription":"Legalization isn't a priority for Mexican politicians, but that doesn't mean it won't happen.
 When he had more cannabis than he could consume, he decided giving it away to people he thought could benefit from it.
 As a result of his arrest, some 150 individuals who rely on Bower for his cannabis-based treatments could be left uncared for.
 ","fbTitle":"This Man Was Arrested For Gifting Cannabis To Patients","fbDescription":"He supplies about 150 people with cannabis for free.
 Now, they'll have to find some other way to get their medicine.
 We’ve put together a list of the six least stinky strains you can grow discreetly, plus, some other techniques to keep odor from escaping your garden.
 From Durban Poison to Northern, these low odor strains may surprise you.
 ","fbTitle":"The 6 Best Low Odor Strains For Growing Weed At Home","fbDescription":"Grow these strains if you don't want to get caught.
