Presidential Results Senate Results House Results          Insider logo The word "Insider".
 Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'.
 It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
 Menu icon A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines.
 Search icon A magnifying glass.
 It indicates, "Click to perform a search".
 Insider logo The word "Insider".
 Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders.
 It often indicates a user profile.
 BI Prime   Intelligence                  Business The word Business           Life The word Life           News The word News                Search icon A magnifying glass.
 It indicates, "Click to perform a search".
 Insider logo The word "Insider".
 Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'.
 It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
 Business The word Business       Tech   Finance   Strategy   Retail   Executive Lifestyle   Premium   Intelligence           Life The word Life       Entertainment   Travel   Food   Health           News The word News       Politics   Military &amp; Defense   Sports   Opinion           All The word All      A-Z  Advertising   Business Insider   Careers      Coupons   DoorDash   Walmart   Dell   Staples   Under Armour     Culture   Design   Entertainment   Executive Lifestyle   Finance   Food   Health   Intelligence   Latest   Life   Markets Insider   Media   Military &amp; Defense   News   Opinion   People   Personal Finance   Politics   Premium   Retail   Reviews   Science   Sports   Strategy   Tech   Transportation   Travel      TV   Beauty Explorers   Best in Town   Bonkers Closets   Festival Foodies   Movies Insider   Pop Culture Decoded   The Making Of   The Ultimate List    Featured  Next Stop  About  About   Advertise   Careers   Contact   Corporate   Corrections Policy  Follow  Newsletters   RSS   Sitemap   Facebook   Snapchat   Twitter   Instagram   YouTube        World globe An icon of the world globe, indicating different international options."
 US Edition  US INTL Australia Deutschland España France India Italia Japan México Nederland Nordic Polska South Africa             A leading-edge research firm focused on digital transformation.
 See our Research        Facebook Icon The letter F.      Twitter icon A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting.
 LinkedIn icon The word "in".
 YouTube icon A play button in the shape of a television screen.
 Instagram icon A stylized camera.
 * Copyright © 2020.
 All rights reserved.
 Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our     Terms of Service ,  Privacy Policy and  Cookies Policy.
 Sitemap   Disclaimer   Commerce Policy   CA Privacy Rights     Coupons   Made in NYC   Jobs       Stock quotes by     finanzen.net     Reprints &amp; Permissions        Insider logo The word "Insider".
 Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'.
 It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
 Good       Subscriber Account active    since          Edit my Account         Premium Articles         Upgrade Membership         Email Preferences         My Subscription         FAQs         Logout             Automatically updates every 5 minutes.
 Presidential Results  Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.
 0Joe Biden Icon of check mark inside circle It indicates a confirmed selection.
 Icon of check mark inside circle It indicates a confirmed selection.
 Donald Trump0               270 to win                    Senate Results  Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.
 0Dem  Icon of check mark inside circle It indicates a confirmed selection.
 Icon of check mark inside circle It indicates a confirmed selection.
 Rep0          51 to control             House Results  Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.
 0Dem  Icon of check mark inside circle It indicates a confirmed selection.
 Icon of check mark inside circle It indicates a confirmed selection.
 Rep0          218 to control          Election Live Results   The first polls close in           Presidential Race  Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.
 Senate Race Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.
 House Race  Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.
 Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.
 HOMEPAGE          Home  Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.
 Link icon An image of a chain link.
 It symobilizes a website link url.
 Email icon An envelope.
 It indicates the ability to send an email.
 Twitter icon A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting.
 Pinterest icon The letter "P" styled to look like a thumbtack pin.
 Fliboard icon A stylized letter F.      More icon Three evenly spaced dots forming an ellipsis: "...".
 Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'.
 It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
 The furniture company Wayfair is the latest subject of viral conspiracy theories and misinformation.
 Suzanne Kreiter/The Boston Globe via Getty Images             An unfounded conspiracy theory that the furniture company Wayfair is advertising the sale of human children under the guise of expensive cabinets and pillows went viral over the weekend.The theory seemingly originated from speculation among popular members of the conspiracy-theory group QAnon and grew on Reddit&apos;s r/conspiracy subreddit.QAnon believers have repeatedly made false allegations of child trafficking against Democrats, celebrities, and businesses.Visit Insider&apos;s homepage for more stories.
 The unfounded conspiracy theory that the American furniture retailer Wayfair sold human children using listings for expensive cabinets and pillows went so viral that hundreds of thousands of people on Twitter alone have voiced their concerns.It has been debunked by Snopes, Facebook&apos;s independent fact-checkers, and other journalists, and extremism researchers say the theory seemingly originated from, and continues to have close ties to, the QAnon conspiracy-theory movement.The trend took the internet by storm Friday and continued throughout the weekend after a Reddit user claimed that high-priced cabinets and pillows on Wayfair&apos;s website were named after young Americans who went missing.Wayfair quickly denied the claims.
 "The products in question are industrial grade cabinets that are accurately priced.
 Recognizing that the photos and descriptions provided by the supplier did not adequately explain the high price point, we have temporarily removed the products," a Wayfair representative told Insider.
 When asked about the high-priced pillows, the person said they were priced in error.
 Despite the brand&apos;s denial and reporting that squashes the theory, it continues to spread.The theory appeared to begin with speculation from a popular QAnon conspiracy theorist before spreading to RedditBen Collins of NBC News traced the theory to @99freemind, aka Amazing Polly, a popular QAnon influencer on Twitter and YouTube based in Ontario.
 She posted a June 14 tweet about Wayfair&apos;s expensive "storage cabinets" having girls&apos; names.The theory then traveled to the r/conspiracy subreddit, according to Collins, who called that subreddit a "clearinghouse for anonymous paranoia.
 "Soon, the theory traveled to other social-media platforms, and it began trending on Twitter after many users shared screenshots alleging that high-priced shower curtains, cabinets, and pillows shared their names with missing Americans.There is still no evidence that Wayfair has been involved in anything nefarious.Many social-media accounts spreading the Wayfair theory are QAnon believersThe conspiracy theory is easily linked to QAnon, the far-right conspiracy-theory movement centered on the belief that a so-called deep-state cabal of elites is hell-bent on destroying President Donald Trump.
 QAnon followers have repeatedly made unfounded allegations that specific celebrities and politicians are involved in child sex trafficking.Instagram accounts dedicated to the Wayfair conspiracy theory have popped up using QAnon hashtags.
 The @wayfairgate Instagram account found fast popularity spreading the theory, collecting more than 21,000 followers in days, tagging many posts with QAnon hashtags including #q, #wwg1wga, #stormiscoming, #pizzagate, and #maga.
 @wayfairgate/Instagram     Dedicated QAnon accounts have also spread the theory.
 On Sunday, the "QAnon News Network," which has more than 31,000 followers, posted about the Wayfair conspiracy theory for the second time, claiming that Wayfair was involved in the trafficking of missing girls and women.The post was not marked by Instagram as containing misinformation, but the account&apos;s first post Saturday about the theory was flagged as sharing "partly false information" by the platform&apos;s fact-checkers.Facebook&apos;s independent fact-checkers have reported that the Wayfair theory is false.
 A representative for Facebook, which owns Instagram, told Insider that fact-checkers "independently assess false information and once they rate content as false, our goal is to give users that context, wherever they may see it," adding that the company feels "it&apos;s our responsibility to let everyone who sees that content know that it has been debunked.
 "The theories have also spread rapidly on TikTok, Facebook, and Twitter, where the QAnon conspiracy theorist Jeffrey Pedersen, aka @InTheMatrixxx, tagged the FBI in a tweet calling for an investigation into Wayfair.
 Pedersen, who has nearly 150,000 Twitter followers, told Insider that he still believes the FBI should investigate.A Twitter representative told Insider that the platform had taken actions against certain posts for "spam and platform manipulation" related to this theory.As the theory went viral, it was shared by people who don&apos;t typically hold QAnon beliefs, including some celebrities and influencers.
 On Sunday, the singer Maisy Stella, who has 624,000 Instagram followers, shared an Instagram story about the conspiracy theories.
 "I really suggest you look into the wayfair child trafficking gate.
 it is undeniable," she wrote, tagging the @wayfairgate Instagram account.Stella did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
 @maisystella/Instagram     Child-sex-trafficking misinformation has been a central theme among QAnon conspiracy theoristsThe Wayfair story is reminiscent of Pizzagate, the conspiracy-theory scandal from 2016.
 Believers of the oft-debunked Pizzagate theory falsely alleged that Hillary Clinton, then the Democratic presidential nominee, and her aides were involved with a child-sex-trafficking ring at a pizza restaurant in Washington called Comet Ping Pong.
 The theory eventually inspired an armed man in search of the nonexistent children to enter Comet Ping Pong.Alexander Reid Ross, a doctoral fellow at the Centre for Analysis of the Radical Right who tracks white nationalism, told Insider that Pizzagate, Wayfair, and other QAnon theories were a "misplaced moral crusade" against pedophilia that targets wealthy elites.
 He added that the "crusade" was commonly used to target and take down political opponents, particularly in Russia.
 "This is absolutely weaponized and used by the far right all over the world," he said.
 While the QAnon universe has expanded in the years since Pizzagate, its main tenet remains the same.
 "QAnon, beginning in 2017, was birthed out of the Pizzagate conspiracy theory, retaining the central belief that a cabal of powerful elites control the world, using their power to covertly abuse children," said Marc-André Argentino, a doctoral candidate at Concordia University who researches how extremist groups use technology.QAnon conspiracy theories such as the one about Wayfair have increasingly reached mainstream attention in recent months.
 Celebrities including Hilary Duff and Oprah Winfrey have had to publicly deny QAnon believers&apos; false claims that they were involved in child sex trafficking, and several US political candidates who hold QAnon beliefs will be on the ballot in November.Update: This article has been updated with a statement from Jeffrey Pedersen.
 Read more:Wayfair shoots down conspiracy theory about child sex trafficking and expensive cabinetsHilary Duff appeared to respond to baseless QAnon conspiracy theories saying that she was involved in child traffickingA QAnon conspiracy theory about Oprah Winfrey went so viral that it provoked her to respond, showing the scope of coronavirus misinformationLifestyle influencers are using COVID-19 to spread QAnon conspiracy theories: &apos;I truly believe I owe it to my audience to be more for them during this turning point in our culture&apos;       NOW WATCH:        More: Digital Culture Retail Furniture Online Shopping     Wayfair Conspiracy Theories QAnon Misinformation     Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.
 Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'.
 It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
 Looking for smart ways to get more from life?
 Visit Insider Coupons and get discounts on Fashion, Electronics, sports, home... and more!
 Get Insider In Your Inbox   Like what you see here?
 Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
 Sign-Up                                             Follow us on:                                                                Also check out:                                    * Copyright © 2020 Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
 Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our        Terms of Service ,  Privacy Policy and  Cookies Policy       .
 Sitemap   Disclaimer   Commerce Policy   CA Privacy Rights   Coupons   Made in NYC   Jobs         Stock quotes by     finanzen.net   Reprints &amp; Permissions        International Editions:   United States US     International INTL     Australia AUS     Deutschland DE     España ES     France FR     India IN     Italy IT     Japan JP     México MX     Netherlands NL     Nordic SE     Polska PL     South Africa ZA
