Williams Institute       TopicsIssuesCOVID-19CriminalizationData CollectionDemographicsDiscrimination &amp; ViolenceEconomics &amp; PovertyEducationHealth &amp; HIV/AIDSInternationalRelationships &amp; ParentingSocial Services &amp; Child WelfareSubpopulationsOlder AdultsPeople of ColorSame-Sex CouplesTransgender PeopleYouthProjectsGenerationsPathways to JusticeSexuality, Health &amp; OpportunitySex Offenders Registry StudyTransPopPublicationsExpertsQuick FactsLGBT FAQsFind answers to our most frequently asked questionsUS &amp; State DataInteractives featuring our data on LGBT people in the USSurvey MeasuresHow to ask sexual orientation and gender identity questionsInfographicsVisualizations of our researchDonatePrograms  Judicial Education International Programs Moot Court Competition Dukeminier Awards Journal Reading Room UCLA Courses   About  Who we are Staff Ambassadors Careers Impact Contact   Events  Upcoming Events Webinar Library Annual Update   Press  Press Releases Join Press List          Secondaty Navigation     Search Form                       Header Bottom                     Publications      Demographics         Brief How Many People are Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender?
 April 2011     Contents Download Share    OverviewHighlightsData PointsBrief   Brief    Copy link Facebook Twitter LinkedIn      A number of large, population-based surveys ask questions about respondents’ sexual orientation and gender identity.
 This brief estimates the size of the LGBT population in the US based on data collected through eleven surveys conducted in the US and four other countries.
 AUTHORS  Gary J.
 Gates Research Director, Former CONTACT US ABOUT THIS STUDY          Highlights      Similar percentages of men and women identify as gay/lesbian or bisexual.
 Over half of LGB people identify as bisexual.
 Adults are 2 to 3 times more likely to say that they have same-sex attraction or have engaged in same-sex behavior than they are to identify as LGB.
 Data Points           3.5%  of adults in the US identify as LGB 0.3%  identify as transgender       1.8%  of adults identify as bisexual 1.7%  identify as gay or lesbian       11%  of adults in the US report same-sex attraction 8.2%  report engaging in same-sex sexual behavior       3.4%  of women identify as lesbian or bisexual 3.6%  of men identify as gay or bisexual                  Brief     Executive Summary Increasing numbers of population-based surveys in the United States and across the world include questions that allow for an estimate of the size of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) population.
 This research brief discusses challenges associated with collecting better information about the LGBT community and reviews eleven recent US and international surveys that ask sexual orientation or gender identity questions.
 The brief concludes with estimates of the size of the LGBT population in the United States.
 Key Findings  An estimated 3.5% of adults in the United States identify as lesbian, gay, or bisexual and an estimated 0.3% of adults are transgender.
 This implies that there are approximately 9 million LGBT Americans, a figure roughly equivalent to the population of New Jersey.
 Among adults who identify as LGB, bisexuals comprise a slight majority (1.8% compared to 1.7% who identify as lesbian or gay).
 Women are substantially more likely than men to identify as bisexual.
 Bisexuals comprise more than half of the lesbian and bisexual population among women in eight of the nine surveys considered in the brief.
 Conversely, gay men comprise substantially more than half of gay and bisexual men in seven of the nine surveys.
 Estimates of those who report any lifetime same-sex sexual behavior and any same-sex sexual attraction are substantially higher than estimates of those who identify as LGB.
 An estimated 19 million Americans (8.2%) report that they have engaged in same-sex sexual behavior and nearly 25.6 million Americans (11%) acknowledge at least some same-sex sexual attraction.
 Understanding the size of the LGBT population is a critical first step to informing a host of public policy and research topics.
 The surveys highlighted in this report demonstrate the viability of sexual orientation and gender identity questions on large national population-based surveys.
 Adding these questions to more national, state, and local data sources is critical to developing research that enables a better understanding of the understudied LGBT community.
 Introduction Increasing numbers of population-based surveys in the United States and across the world include questions designed to measure sexual orientation and gender identity.
 Understanding the size of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) population is a critical first step to informing a host of public policy and research topics.
 Examples include assessing health and economic disparities in the LGBT community, understanding the prevalence of anti-LGBT discrimination, and considering the economic impact of marriage equality or the provision of domestic partnership benefits to same-sex couples.
 This research brief discusses challenges associated with collecting better information about the LGBT community and reviews findings from eleven recent US and international surveys that ask sexual orientation or gender identity questions.
 The brief concludes with estimates of the size of the LGBT population in the United States.
 These include differences in the definitions of who is included in the LGBT population, differences in survey methods, and a lack of consistent questions asked in a particular survey over time.
 In measuring sexual orientation, lesbian, gay, and bisexual individuals may be identified strictly based on their self-identity or it may be possible to consider same-sex sexual behavior or sexual attraction.
 Some surveys (not considered in this brief) also assess household relationships and provide a mechanism of identifying those who are in same-sex relationships.
 Identity, behavior, attraction, and relationships all capture related dimensions of sexual orientation but none of these measures completely addresses the concept.
 Defining the transgender population can also be challenging.
 Similar to sexual orientation, one way to measure the transgender community is to simply consider self-identity.
 Measures of identity could include consideration of terms like transgender, queer, or genderqueer.
 The latter two identities are used by some to capture aspects of both sexual orientation and gender identity.
 Similar to using sexual behaviors and attraction to capture elements of sexual orientation, questions may also be devised that consider gender expression and non-conformity regardless of the terms individuals may use to describe themselves.
 An example of these types of questions would be consideration of the relationship between the sex that individuals are assigned at birth and the degree to which that assignment conforms with how they express their gender.
 Survey methods can affect the willingness of respondents to report stigmatizing identities and behaviors.
 Feelings of confidentiality and anonymity increase the likelihood that respondents will be more accurate in reporting sensitive information.
 Survey methods that include face-to-face interviews may underestimate the size of the LGBT community while those that include methods that allow respondents to complete questions on a computer or via the internet may increase the likelihood of LGBT respondents identifying themselves.
 Population-based surveys with a larger sample can produce more precise estimates (see SMART, 2010 for more information about survey methodology).
 A final challenge in making population-based estimates of the LGBT community is the lack of questions asked over time on a single large survey.
 One way of assessing the reliability of estimates is to repeat questions over time using a consistent method and sampling strategy.
 Adding questions to more large-scale surveys that are repeated over time would substantially improve our ability to make better estimates of the size of the LGBT population.
 How many adults are lesbian, gay, or bisexual?
 Findings shown in Figure 1 consider estimates of the percentage of adults who self-identify as lesbian, gay, or bisexual across nine surveys conducted within the past seven years.
 Five of those surveys were fielded in the United States and the others are from Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, and Norway.
 All are population-based surveys of adults, though some have age restrictions as noted.
 The lowest overall percentage comes from the Norwegian Living Conditions Survey at 1.2%, with the National Survey of Sexual Health and Behavior, conducted in the United States, producing the highest estimate at 5.6%.
 In six of the surveys, lesbian- and gay-identified individuals outnumbered bisexuals.
 In most cases, these surveys were roughly 60% lesbian/gay versus 40% bisexual.
 The UK Integrated Household Survey found the proportion to be two-thirds lesbian/gay versus one-third bisexual.
 The National Survey of Family Growth found results that were essentially the opposite of the UK survey with only 38% identifying as lesbian or gay compared to 62% identifying as bisexual.
 The National Survey of Sexual Health and Behavior and the Australian Longitudinal Study of Health and Relationships both found a majority of respondents (55% and 59%, respectively) identifying as bisexual.
 The surveys show even greater consistency in differences between men and women associated with lesbian/gay versus bisexual identity.
 Women are substantially more likely than men to identify as bisexual.
 Bisexuals comprise more than half of the lesbian and bisexual population among women in eight of the nine surveys considered (see Figure 3).
 Conversely, gay men comprise substantially more than half of gay and bisexual men in seven of the nine surveys.
 Four of the surveys analyzed also asked questions about either sexual behavior or attraction.
 Within these surveys, a larger fraction of adults report same-sex attractions and behaviors than self-identify as lesbian, gay, or bisexual (see Figure 4).
 With the exception of the Norwegian survey, these differences are substantial.
 The two US surveys and the Australian survey all suggest that adults are two to three times more likely to say that they are attracted to individuals of the same-sex or have had same-sex sexual experiences than they are to self-identify as LGB.
 How many adults are transgender?
 Population-based data sources that estimate the percentage of adults who are transgender are very rare.
 The Massachusetts Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance Survey represents one of the few population-based surveys that include a question designed to identify the transgender population.
 Analyses of the 2007 and 2009 surveys suggest that 0.5% of adults aged 18-64 identified as transgender (Conron 2011).
 The 2003 California LGBT Tobacco Survey found that 3.2% of LGBT individuals identified as transgender.
 Recall that the 2009 California Health Interview Survey estimates that 3.2% of adults in the state are LGB.
 If both of these estimates are true, it implies that approximately 0.1% of adults in California are transgender.
 Conway (2002) suggests that between 0.5% and 2% of the population have strong feelings of being transgender and between 0.1% and 0.5% actually take steps to transition from one gender to another.
 Olyslager and Conway (2007) refine Conway’s original estimates and posit that at least 0.5% of the population has taken some steps toward transition.
 Researchers in the United Kingdom (Reed, et al., 2009) suggest that perhaps 0.1% of adults are transgender (defined again as those who have transitioned in some capacity).
 Notably, the estimates of those who have transitioned are consistent with the survey-based estimates from California and Massachusetts.
 Those surveys both used questions that implied a transition or at least discordance between sex at birth and current gender presentation.
 How many lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people are there in the United States?
 Federal data sources designed to provide population estimates in the United States (e.g., the Decennial Census or the American Community Survey) do not include direct questions regarding sexual orientation or gender identity.
 The findings shown in Figure 1 suggest that no single survey offers a definitive estimate for the size of the LGBT community in the United States.
 However, combining information from the population-based surveys considered in this brief offers a mechanism to produce credible estimates for the size of the LGBT community.
 Specifically, estimates for sexual orientation identity will be derived by averaging results from the five US surveys identified in Figure 1.
 Separate averages are calculated for lesbian and bisexual women along with gay and bisexual men.
 An estimate for the transgender population is derived by averaging the findings from the Massachusetts and California surveys cited earlier.
 It should be noted that some transgender individuals may identify as lesbian, gay, or bisexual.
 So it is not possible to make a precise combined LGBT estimate.
 Instead, Figure 5 presents separate estimates for the number of LGB adults and the number of transgender adults.
 The analyses suggest that there are more than 8 million adults in the US who are LGB, comprising 3.5% of the adult population.
 This is split nearly evenly between lesbian/gay and bisexual identified individuals, 1.7% and 1.8%, respectively.
 There are also nearly 700,000 transgender individuals in the US.
 Given these findings, it seems reasonable to assert that approximately 9 million Americans identify as LGBT.
 Averaging measures of same-sex sexual behavior yields an estimate of nearly 19 million Americans (8.2%) who have engaged in same-sex sexual behavior.1 The National Survey of Family Growth is the only source of US data on attraction and suggests that 11% or nearly 25.6 million Americans acknowledge at least some same-sex sexual attraction.2 By way of comparison, these analyses suggest that the size of the LGBT community is roughly equivalent to the population of New Jersey.
 The number of adults who have had same-sex sexual experiences is approximately equal to the population of Florida while those who have some same-sex attraction comprise more individuals than the population of Texas.
 The surveys highlighted in this report demonstrate the viability of sexual orientation and gender identity questions on large-scale national population-based surveys.
 States and municipal governments are often testing grounds for the implementation of new LGBT-related public policies or can be directly affected by national-level policies.
 Adding sexual orientation and gender identity questions to national data sources that can provide local-level estimates and to state and municipal surveys is critical to assessing the potential efficacy and impact of such policies.
 Download the brief       Related Publications              Fact Sheet           Adult LGBT Population in the United States     July 2020                   Report           How Many Adults Identify as Transgender in the United States?
 June 2016                   Brief           United States Census Snapshot 2010     September 2011                 How Many People are Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender?
 Contents Download Share         OverviewHighlightsData PointsBrief   Brief    Copy link Facebook Twitter LinkedIn      This estimate uses data from the National Survey of Family Growth and the General Social Survey.
 Since the NSFG data only survey 18-44 year olds, this estimate assumes that patterns in this group are the same for those aged 45 and older.
 It may be that older adults are less likely to report same-sex attraction.
 If so, this estimate may somewhat overstate same-sex attraction among all adults.
 It has been sent.
 Please try again later.
 Please check and try again.
 Please try again later.
