SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED 
 i PURPOSE, SCOPE, AND METHODOLOGY 

  This inspection was conducted in accordance with the Quality Standards for Inspection 
and Evaluation, as issued in 2012
 by the Council of 
the Inspectors General on Integrity and 
Efficiency, and the Inspect

U.S. Department of State (Department) and the Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG). 
 PURPOSE AND SCOPE 
 The Office of Inspections provides the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the BBG, 
and 
Congress with systematic and independent evaluations of the operations of the Department and 
the BBG. Inspections cover three broad areas, consistent with Section 209 of the Foreign Service 

Act of 1980: 
  Policy Implementation:  whether policy goals and objectives are being effectively 
achieved; whether U.S. interests are being accurately and effectively represented; and 

whether all elements of an office or mission are being adequately coordinated. 
  Resource Management:  whether resources are being used and managed with maximum 
efficiency, effectiveness, and economy and whether financial transactions and accounts 
are properly conducted, maintained, and reported. 
  Management Controls:  
whether the administration of activities and operations meets the 
requirements of applicable laws and regulations; whether internal management controls 
have been instituted to ensure quality of performance and reduce the likelihood of 

mismanagement; whether instances of fraud, waste, or abuse exist; and whether adequate 

steps for detection, correction, and prevention have been taken. 
 METHODOLOGY 
 In conducting this inspection, the inspectors: reviewed pertinent records; as appropriate, 
circulated, reviewed, and compiled the results of survey instruments; conducted on-site interviews; 
and reviewed the substance of the report and its findings and recommendations with offices, 

individuals, organizations, and activities affected by this review. 
 
 
    SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED 
 ii   United States Department of State 
  and the Broadcasting Board of Governors 
 Office of Inspector General 
PREFACE 
  This report was prepared by the Office of Inspector General (OIG) pursuant to the 
Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, and Section 209 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, 
as amended. It is one of a series of audit, inspection, investigative, and special reports prepared 

by OIG periodically as part of its responsibility to promote effective management, 

accountability, and positive change in the Department of State and the Broadcasting Board of 

Governors. 

 This report is the result of an assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the office, 
post, or function under review. It is based on interviews with employees and officials of relevant 

agencies and institutions, direct observation, and a review of applicable documents. 
 
The recommendations therein have been developed on the basis of the best knowledge 
available to the OIG and, as appropriate, have been discussed in draft with those responsible for 

implementation. It is my hope that these recommendations will result in more effective, efficient, 
and/or economical operations. 
 
I express my appreciation to all of those who contributed to the preparation of this report. 
    
 
                                                                   
                                                 
 
                                                     
 
 
      Robe
rt B. Peterson 
Assistant Inspector General for Inspections
       SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED 
 iii Table of Contents 
 Key Findings 
1 Context 
2 Leadership 
4 Morale 
4 Program Implementation 
6 
 7 Journalistic Standards 
8 Relations and Coordination with Voice of America Latin America Division,                            
U.S. Interests Section in Havana, and other Federal Agencies 
9 Resource Management 
10 Contracting 
10 
 11 Financial Management 
12 Property Management 
13 Human Resources 
14 Technology and Information Management 
15 Facilities 
15 Management Controls 
17 Unliquidated Obligations 
17 Travel Arrangement for Acting General Manager 
17 Property Management Records and Procedures 
19 Security 
22 Office of Cuba Broadcasting, Marathon Transmitting Station,                                                
and Naval Air Station in Key West 
22 Security Officer Duties 
22 23 23 a[Red
cted] (b) (5), [Redacted] (b) (7)(F)23 24 Security Committee 
24 Visitor Access List and Secure Telephone Equipment 
25 List of Recommendations 
26 Principal Officials 
28 Abbreviations 
29   SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 1 Key Findings 
  The Office of Cuba Broadcasting has focused its programming on subjects, such as news, 
sports, and entertainment that are generally censored by the Cuban Government. Besides 
radio (shortwave and mediumwave) and television platforms, the entity has made its digital 
platforms more robust, going beyond the news Web site by making available and distributing 
its programming in Cuba through innovative programs.    
  The Office of Cuba Broadcasting is implementing successfully the Broadcasting Board of 

-year strategic plan for 2012 through 2016, 
Impact through Innovation and 
Integration,
 and its own programming goals.  
  Employee morale is a concern. Office of Cuba Broadcasting staff expressed that the current 
management does not communicate effectively and the decisionmaking processes lack 
transparency. Many employees expressed fear of reprisal by management if they raise 
concerns. 

  Several administrative functions require greater oversight from administrative staff in the 
Office of Cuba Broadcasting and the International Broadcasting Bureau support offices, 
including the Office of Contracts, the Office of the Chief Financial Officer, and the Office of 
Property Management.   
  The Office of Cuba Broadcasting has several administrative weaknesses in the areas of 
contracting, human resources, financial reviews of unliquidated obligations, property 
management, and travel.  
  Two contracting issues require closer oversight:  contract administration procedures and 

   The security program requires attention, especially in the area of emergency preparedness 

and physical security at the Miami office. 
  All findings and recommendations in this report 
are based on conditions 
observed during the on-
site review and the standards and policies then in effect. The report does 
not comment at length 
on areas where the OIG team did not identify problems that need to be corrected. 
 The inspection survey took place in Washington, DC, between September 11 and 30, 2013, and 
October 17 and 31, 2013, and at the Office of Cuba Broadcasting in Miami, Florida, between 
November 4 and 20, 2013, including site visits to the transmitting station in Marathon, Florida, 

and the Naval Air Station in Key West, Florida. Ambassador John M. Jones (team leader), 
Robert Torres (deputy team leader), Rich Astor, and Pasquale Capriglione conducted the 
inspection. The inspection was interrupted by the U.S. Government shutdown in the first part of 
October 2013. 
 SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 2 Context  
  The Office of Cuba Broadcasting (OCB), which is funded by the U.S. Government 
through the presidentially appointed Broadcasting Board of Governors 
(BBG), was established in 
1990 to oversee the operations of Radio and TV Martí, two broadcast services that provide 

Spanish-language news, features, and entertainment programs to Cuba. In addition to radio and 

television, OCB has an Internet site (www.martinoticias.com), all of which are known 

collectively as the Martís. 

  The 
1983 Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act
1 requires Radio Martí to follow Voice of 
America (V
OA) journalistic standards and guidelines for presenting a variety of news and 
information in an accurate and objective manner. The first transmission to Cuba began in 1984.
 OCB 
has the following legislated mission: 
 
 1.
 Support the right of the people of Cuba to seek, receive, and impart information 
and ideas through any media, regardless of borders;  
 2.
 Be effective in furthering open communication of information and ideas through 
use of Radio Martí and Television Martí programming to Cuba;  
 3.
 Serve as a consistently reliable and authoritative source of accurate, objective, and 
comprehensive news; and 
 4.
 Provide news, commentary, and other information about events in Cuba and 
elsewhere to promote the cause of freedom in Cuba. 
 
 The mission of the 
Martís 
under the current leadership is to o
pen up the Internet in Cuba; 
engage and empower Cubans with relevant information 
and news, as well as tools to circumvent 
censorship; b
ring an open social network to Cuba; and allow Cubans to connect, converse, and 
spread the word, free from government control.
 OCB today produces more content than any 
other BBG language service. It broadcasts television and radio programming 
24 hours 
per day 
and
 runs an 18
-hour digital media operation. Specifically, TV Martí programming includes  
4.5 hours of daily newscasts, as well as programs about public affairs, culture, music, sports, and 
entertainment. In 2013
, OCB establish
ed multiple networks 
of independent journalists who are 
providing unbiased reporting 
from Cuba.   
 
 Radio Martí broadcasts 
on mediumwave 
and shortwave. It also broadcasts via satellite 
and
 via 
purchased
 air time on 
a South Florida private television station. 
Both of these broadcasts 
can be seen in Cuba. At the time of the inspection, OCB was testing placement of its 

programming on an FM station from Key West. 

 
 OCB and 
the VOA Latin America Division 
broadcast in the Western Hemisphere.
 Although the Cuba-focused mission of the OCB differs from that of the VOA Latin America 

Division, a 
2011 Government Accountability Office 
(GAO) 
report addressed the need for 
collaboration and an analysis of possible cost savings from sharing resources between the two 
                                                 1 Television broadcasting to Cuba (the Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act) comes under part D of title II (sections 
241-248) of Pub. L. 101
246, Feb. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 58, as amended (part of Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991). 
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 3 2entities. 
Cooperation between OCB and the VOA Latin America Division is one of the tactical 
steps toward reaching 

-year strategic plan.  
  
 Cuba is one of the most politically and geographically isolated societies in the world. It is 
not possible for BBG to conduct nationally representative audience surveys in Cuba because of 
the highly restrictive political and media environment, though BBG is able to conduct some 
focus groups with recent immigrants from the island. Given these circumstances, OCB measures 
performance on 
the basis of daily interaction with the audience and a host of impact criteria, 
including jamming and government responses to news coverage. 
                                                    2 GAO Followup report to the House of Representatives Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on State, 
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, 
Broadcasting Board of Governors Should Provide Additional 
Information to Congress Regarding Broadcasting to Cuba,
 GAO-12-234R, December 2011
. 
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 4 Leadership 
  The 
effective operation of any broadcasting entity depends, at lea
st in part
, on the executive direction of its senior management. The OCB 
director is responsible for the strategic 
planning of TV Martí; 
Radio Martí; 
and 
digital and social media platforms, 
including 
www.martinoticias.com. T
he OCB 
senior staff comprises the acting general manager, the 
director of administration,
 and the staff director.
 The general manager has the responsibility for 
day-
to-day operations 
of radio, TV,
 and digital platforms. 
The director of administration and the 
staff director have oversight responsibilities for administrative functions. The acting general 
manager, an employee from the International Broadcasting Bureau (IBB) Office of Performance 
Review 
and former reviewer of OCB annual program review process, 
was on temporary duty 
(TDY) 
status from April to September 2013 
and now is on a temporary promotion 
as acting 
general manager 
for 120 days 
until January 2014.   
  The director started in November 2010. 
He has refocus
ed the needs and interests of the 
Cuban people with a vision of moving forward and 
not looking backward 
by putting more 
emphasis on the digital platform. 

pro
gramming and the relaunch of 
www.martinoticias.com.
 Officials 
from BBG and the 
Department 
of State (Department
) have a favorable view of the director 
for transforming OCB 
into a multimedia 
news hub.  
  
Although the director holds frequent town hall meetings to communicate with staff, the 

-
or questions are not allowed. The director maintains that he encourages questions at these 
meetings and has an open door policy,
 but many of the employees 
said 
the director 
does not 
communicate how their concerns are being addressed.
 Others feel that that they are not consulted 
as part of the decisionmaking 
process. 
The inspection team counseled the director
 on this and 
other managerial issues and suggested remedial actions. 

 
 The acting general manager has instituted a weekly meeting schedule with managers to 

discuss programming 
issues. He attends 
weekly editorial board meetings and, according to 
his own assessment, holds managers accountable. According to the OCB director, the acting general 


fessionalize functions at OCB 

 However, 
in OIG personal questionnaires and interviews with OCB 
employees 
staff 
indicated that the acting general manager

 negatively 
affected operations. He is viewed by many employees 
as being 
a micromanager.
 Many managers 
told the inspection team that they are not empowered to make decisions, just to follow orders. 

The inspection team brought these perceptions to the attention of the acting general manager and 

the director. 
 Morale 
  In responding to the OIG personal questionnaires and in interviews, many of the OCB 
employees rated their morale as low.
 Some of the reasons cited for low morale included the lack 
of transparency in decisionmaking,
 the 
inability to offer suggestions, and the lack of effective 
communication. Others were concerned about raising 
any issues to the inspection team because 
 SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 5 of fear of retaliation by management. OCB management was surprised by 

assessment on morale because in the 2013 

Viewpoint Survey, OCB employees gave high scores in categories of work experience, 

leadership, and supervisors. 

  The inspection concluded that 
employee morale is a concern and senior management 
needs to take additional steps to allow employees to offer suggestions and communicate with 
them effectively without fear of reprisal or intimidation.
 It is important for OCB management to 
make employees part of the decisionmaking 
process. The inspection team also determined that 

questions about morale, but rather asked participants to rate their satisfaction in general 
categories like work experience, leadership,
 and supervisors.
 The inspection team suggested that 
OCB management form an employee working group to generate solutions for management on 
addressing employees concerns. Low m
orale was an issue addressed in the 2007 OIG inspection 
3report 
on OCB and the 2009 GAO report 
on OCB broadcasting operations.  
                                                   3 OIG
 Inspection of Cuba Broadcasting
, Report No. ISP-
IB-07-35, June 2007, and G
AO report
, Broadcasting to 
Cuba: Actions Are Needed to Improve Strategy and Operations
, GAO-
09-127, June 2009. 
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 6 Program Implementation  
 OCB 
radio and television programs seek to represent the best of U.S. media, providing a 
contrast 
to Cuban state media. It increasingly tailors its products,
 realizing that consumption of 
Martí media is against the law in Cuba. 
Recent Radio Martí 
programs added to the schedule 
include a morning news magazine 

, lighter programming at 
midday to reach casual listeners for shorter or longer 
periods, and coverage of
 Major League 
Baseball and other sports unavailable 
to Cuban audiences.
 Television programs have paid more 
attention to graphics and presentation style to provide a greater contrast with Cuban state media, 
which still uses 
outdated
 technology.
 TV Martí 
products include nightly uncensored newscasts, 
weekly specials that frequently highlight voices banned on the island, and a weekly program of 
films produced in Cuba. 
 According to OCB, between early 2011 and spring 2012, the number of daily visitors to 
www.martinoticias.com increased.
 In FY 2013, Web traffic averaged
 between 180,000 and 
200,000 visitors per month. Beyond these multimedia efforts, OCB has also engaged in an 

aggressive campaign to distribute weekly its television programming content via broadcast, 
Internet, and even hand-
to-hand, via digital video disks (
DVD) and flash drives. One of the most 
successful new strategies is short message service (SMS) text messaging and emails. Cuban 
citizens are able to contact the Martí newsroom directly to report news in the making and abuses 

perpetrated by the Cuban Government or to provide valuable feedback. 
  The inspection team reviewed documentation 
of OCB innovative programs in the digital 
platform. 
To distribute 
Martí 
programming, OCB is delivering to Cuba 1,000 DVDs weekly.
 It is 
estimated that each DVD will be viewed in 50 households.
 Using the latest, cutting-edge 
technology, OCB is distributing flash drives made of paper,
 with a small electronic interface. 
This flash drive can share electronic data and digitally connect with other devices. Taking 

advantage of the increasing use of mobile telephones o
n the island, OCB launched Piramideo,
 which is an SMS-based social network that makes it easier for people inside Cuba to share 
information and connect with one an
other; this tool operates outside Cuban Government control. 
OCB also launched El Pitirre, a biweekly newsletter that is sent to more than 
75,000 email 
addresses in Cuba. 
 OCB began using Aero Martí, 
a leased aircraft-based television broadcast system 
targeting Cuba for transmission of TV Martí programming in October 2006.
 Over the years, the 
Cuban Government has jammed Aero 

. The cost of this program from FYs 2006
2013 was $35,677,660. During the inspection, Aero Martí 
was currently inactive, with storage 
temporarily funded at $79,524 per year. Because of sequestration cuts, no funding was 
appropriated for fuel expenses.
 OCB views the a

suited for 
broadcasting, should the Cuban Government stop jamming its signal.
 BBG has unsuccessfully 
proposed ending 
the use of Aero 
Martí in its FYs 
2013 and 2014 Congressional Budget 
Requests, stating that Aero Martí should be eliminated because of decreases in its cost-
4effectiveness and increased fuel-related costs. In 2013, the Aero Martí 
program was halted as a 
                                                 4 Broadcasting Board of Governors Fiscal Year 2014 Congressional Budget Request, April 2013.  
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 7 result of sequestration.
 With the approval 
by Congress 
of 

 FY 2014 budget, the program 
officially ended in April 2014. 
 
Strategic Plan 
  
 
s 5-year strategic plan are also activities that
 OCB is very much engaged in, including #3: 
Seize Targeted Growth Opportunities
, which 
OCB 
does by engaging with younger audiences through all digital initiatives; 
#4: Prioritize Support 
for Democracy and Countering Pockets of Extremism
, which OCB supports 
by interviewing 
leaders of the dissident movement in Cuba,
 such as Yoani Sánchez, Berta Soler, Antonio 
Rodiles, Eliecer Avila, Guillermo Fariñas and others; #5: 
Rationalize Program Delivery
; 
#6: Combat Internet Censorship and Jamming
; 
#7: Elevate and Expand Social Media Innovation
; 
#8: Employ Leading-Edge Communication Techniques and Technologies
; 
and #11: 
Spur Development through Targeted Media Initiatives and Training
. OCB addresses all of these 
through the new emphasis on digital and social media and Internet anticensorship activities.  
  The director noted that OCB has a long-term strategic plan,
 which is 
reviewed 
every 6
 months.
 According to the director, b

long-term strategic plan for Cuba broadcasting 

-
adjusts its programming quickly to take advantage of changes that occur on the island.
 The 
inspection team 

information on how 
BBG resources and assets might best be deployed to engage with Cuban 
audiences. If Cuba allows OCB to be present on the island, 
it will have significant resource 
requirements. 
OCB management stated that it intends to redirect existing resources from Miami 
to Cuba in the event this occurs, just as it is already directing more resources to journalists 

reporting from the island. 
             SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 8 Journalistic Standards 
  Credibility is essential in any news organization, and 
OCB 
must earn and sustain 
credibility with its audience. As stated before, the 1983 Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act requires 
Radio Martí to follow Voice of America journalistic standards and guidelines for presenting a 

variety of news and information in an accurate and objective manner. In additio


 editorial guidelines are provided to employees as they make day-
to-day editorial decisions 
such as balance, proper sourcing,
 and tone. The 
director agrees 
that OCB 
should engage Cubans and empower them with relevant information and news 
and 
not provide a propaganda counterweight to the Cuban G

efforts. 
 
 In the past, the IBB Office of Performance Review has recommended that 
OCB improve 
its adherence to certain aspects of journalistic standards. This issue was raised
 in the 2007 OIG 
inspection report and in the 2009 GAO report.
 However, in the past 2 years, according to the IBB 
Office of Performance Review reports, OCB has made dramatic changes to ensure that 

journalistic standards are met.
 Managers assured the inspection team that journalistic codes are 
enforced through reminders at editorial meetings as well as by direct supervision by program 

chiefs. The 
inspection team commended OCB for ensuring that journalistic standards are 
followed. 

 
    SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 9 Relations and Coordination with Voice of America Latin 
America Division
, U.S. Interests Section in Havana, and 
other Federal Agencies 
 OCB maintains good 
working relationships 
with various U.S. Federal agencies,
 including 
the Department; 
the U.S. Agency for International Development; 
and 
the Department of 
Defense, U.S. Southern Command. The 
inspection 
team interviewed representatives of these 
agencies, all of whom 
have a favorable impression of current OCB operations.  
  OCB also maintains a professional working relationship with all BBG broadcasting 
entities,
 including the VOA Latin America Division.
 As stated
 in the OIG inspection report 
of 
the VOA Latin America Division,
5 relations between OCB and the VOA Latin America Division 
are collegial and collaboration between them is growing. OCB has used the Spanish Service
 radio content for many years and shares its own radio content with VOA. OCB provides the use 
of 
its Miami television studio for 

s Foro Interamericano
 program 

to Washington. The two have 
collaborated in covering special events; for example, the Spanish Service reporters are 
featured 
live on Radio Martí 

www.marti

site, www.voanoticias
.com, which 
ha
   Regarding 
the collaboration of 
the two entities, the OIG inspection report for the 
VOA Latin America Division 
includes 
a recommendation 
to direct OCB and 
the VOA Latin America 
Division 
to implement specific collaborative actions respectful of their different missions, as 
outlined in the 

-year strategic plan.
 At the time of the inspection,
 some progress had
 been made 
in implementing this OIG recommendation. 
 OCB has regular contact with the U.S. Interests Section in Havana and maintains 
appropriate working relations. 
OCB has been instrumental in the production of public service 
campaigns used by the Department, such as an antigang initiative now underway.
 The public 
affairs section 
keeps OCB journalists 
aware 
of mission events and activities. 
                                                       5 Inspection of Voice of America Latin American Division
, Report No. ISP-
IB-13-49, September 2013. 
 SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 10 Resource Management 
                  Funding 
Source
 Employees (actual)
 General 
Operating 
Expenses
 Salary
 Total 
 FY 2014 
President's 
Budget 
Request
 Direct 
Hires
 Purchase 
Order 
Vendors
 Stringers
 $10,856,757 $12,947,243 $23,804,000 111 67 16 Source: OCB as of 12/05/2013 
  The OCB FY 2014 funding is 
estimated at $23.8 million, 
as published in the BBG  
FY 2014 Congressional Budget Request. As of December 2013, OCB had 111
 full-time direct-
hire employees,
 supplemented by 83
 purchase o
rder v
endors and stringers.
  
  
 Contracting 
  The IBB 
Office of Contracts has contracting officers 
who have 
a warrant for OCB 
contracts for more than 
$100,000 
and three OCB 
contracting officers 
with a warrant for less than 
$100,000. Thirteen 
service contracts were awarded 
for FYs 
2012 and 2013 worth a total of 
$3,272,083 and $2,738,288, respectively. In FY 2012, purchase order vendor contracts numbered 
106, at a cost of $2,397,108; 
and in FY 2013, these 
contracts numbered 8
2, at a cost of 
$2,347,268. These contracts provide support services to OCB programs,
 including 
radio and TV 
production.    
  The OIG preliminary audit in August 2013 had
 findings about the IBB Office of 
Contracts acquisition process.
6 The 
OIG auditors selected 
34 contracts, one of which was an 

the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 
in carrying out the acquisition process. 
This inspection also performed a limited review of OCB 
contracts. The 
inspection team found some of the same noncompliance with the FAR during the 
presolicitation, preaward, and contract administration phases 
For example, during the 
presolicitation and precontract award phases, the inspectors did not find documentation to 
support the performance of acquisition planning and market research, as required by FAR 7.102 

and FAR 10.001(a), respectively. The 

 revealed no 
evidence that the IBB Office of Contracts has provided the contracting officers 
with contract 
administration procedures. 
 
 During the contract administration phase, the contracting officers 
did not always 
document involvement in contract administration, as stated in FAR1.602-2
. For all three of the 
above acquisition phases, the contract files did not always have adequate documentation in 

accordance with FAR 4.801(b) and FAR 4.802(a)(1) 
and (2),
 especially for official contract files 
located in the IBB Office of Contracts.
 Not adhering to contracting requirements 
lead
s 
to major 
financial vulnerabilities. 
                                                 6 OIG Outline for Action: Management Attention Needed to Improve BBG Acquisition Functions. 
 SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 11 Recommendation 1:
 The International Broadcasting Bureau, in coordination with 
the Office of 
Cuba Broadcasting,
 should implement oversight and contract administration procedures for 
Office of Cuba Broadcasting contracts,
 in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
 (Action: IBB,
 in coordination with OCB) 
 
   
contracting officer
 representatives (COR) were not appointed in a timely 
manner.
 One 
COR, who was appointed for four OCB contracts,
 did not have a COR 
formal 
designation 
for 1
 year.
 In other instances, it took up to 
2 months for a COR to receive a 
designation letter 
from the IBB Office of Contracts.
 A COR should be officially designated when 
any contract is awarded. A COR 
designation letter 
should be in writing,
 in accordance with the 
FAR 1.602-2(d). Furthermore, FAR 1.603-3(a) states
 that appointments 
of CORs shall be 
maintained in the contract files. 
Such designation letters were 
not included in 
most 
contracts 
reviewed.
 In the 
few contract files that had designation 
letters, the letters 
were not always signed 
and dated to confirm C
OR duties and responsibilities 
as stated in FAR 1.604(a). 
The IBB Office 
of Contracts 
and the OCB Administrative Directorate share responsibility for the lack of 
enforcement of COR procedures.
 This oversight deficiency resulted in 
OCB having 
an 
unauthorized commitment 
for $10,534 
in early 2013. The IBB Office of Contracts 
ratified 
this 
unauthorized commitment promptly. 
 Recommendation 2:
 The International Broadcasting Bureau, in coordination with the Office of 
Cuba Broadcasting should officially designate 
in writing 

Office of Cuba Broadcasting contracts, confirm 
that the designation letters are signed and dated, 
and include the designation letter in the contracting files, in accordance with the Federal 
Acquisition Regulation.
 (Action: IBB,
 in coordination with OCB) 
  
  The inspectors
 also reviewed the CORs 
administrative 
procedures 
and found weaknesses. 
Most CORs have other program and management duties. The 
contracts for purchase order 
vendors have many program deliverables that must be verified and accepted by the CORs 
before 
being approved for payment.
 CORs have other 
contract administration requirements stated in the 
designation letter,
 including those relating to maintaining files on all government actions 
pertaining to the contract, interaction with the contractor, all contractor invoices, and progress 
reports.   
  The CORs were generally aware of the purchase order vendor 
contract deliverables,
 but contract administration and documentation did not keep pace.
 If the responsibilities cannot be 
fully carried out in a timely and effective manner, the contracting officer 
should appoint a 
contracting o
fficer
 technical representative to assist the COR. None of the CORs completed the 
contractor performance evaluation for submission to the contracting officer upon completion of 
the purchase order vendor 
contract.
 At the con
clusion of the inspection, OCB agreed to 
emphasi
ze the requirement for contractor 
performance evaluations. 
Not enforcing the CORs to 
follow their administrative 
tasks may lead OCB to pay for services that have not been verified. 
 Recommendation 3:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting,
 in coordination with the International 
Broadcasting Bureau, should require that contracting o
fficer
epresentatives for purchase order 
vendor contracts comply with contract administration requirements outlined in designation letters 
and complete the contractor performance evaluation. (Action: OCB,
 in coordination with IBB)  
 SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 12 Blanket Purchase Agreement 
  In accordance with FAR 13.303-1
, a blanket p
urchase agreement (BPA
) is a simplified 
method of filling anticipated repetitive needs for supplies or service. The IBB Office of 
Contracts 
has considered obtaining purchase order vendor 
services through the use of purchase 
orders in lieu 
of BPAs
. An OIG audit report found that the IBB Office of Contracts entered into 
hundreds of personal services contracts without statutory authority and that contractors regularly 
worked without valid contracts in place.
7 The 
contracts in question are for purchase order 
vendors. The 
inspectors questioned the appropriateness of using BPAs for OCB purchase order 
vendor 
contracts 
and purchase orders to obtain purchase order vendor 
services.
 According to a 
senior officer in the 

the [Federal Procurement 
Data System
Next Generation]
8 
 The same officer stated 
that, with 
fewer orders to administer and close out,
 replacing BPAs with purchase orders could 
reduce accounting errors, decrease unliquidated obligations, and reduce administrative 

operations.
 The inspection team concluded that 
BPAs and 
purchase orders 
are 
not the appropriate 
mechanisms 
for obtaining services from individuals who have an employer and employee 
relationship.
 Using 
a personal services contract is the proper mechanism.  
 Recommendation 4:
 The International Broadcasting Bureau, in coordination with the Office of 
Cuba Broadcasting,
 should stop using 
blanket purchase agreements 
and purchase orders for 
purchase order vendor contracts 
and obtain 
personal services contract authority for all purchase 
order vendor contracts.
 (Action: IBB,
 in coordination with OCB) 
 Purchase Card 
  In reviewing the OCB purchase card program, the inspection team identified instances 
where not all sources of supply were reviewed and 
documented before obtaining the item 
through a local vendor or through an Internet 
vendor.
 Although 
some purchases were deemed to 
be time 
critical, others,
 such as computers,
 were not.
 The BBG purchase card manual requires 
obtaining items through Federal sources,
 such as the General Services Administration, as stated 
in FAR 8.002 (1).
 The inspection team counseled the purchase card program coordinator at the 
IBB Office of Contracts to remind purchase card holders, especially those at OCB,
 to obtain
 to the extent possible 
supplies and services from the Federal supply sources. 
 Financial Management  
  The 
BBG
 chief financial officer 
provides effective support to OCB. The office 

administrative staff regarding ongoing financial operations, 

director of 
administration, and provides information 
on current budgetary issues.
  
                                                   7 OIG Outline for Action: Management Attention Needed to Improve BBG Acquisition Functions. 
8 The Federal Procurement Data System 
 Next Generation reports OCB contract spending to USASpending.gov 
and is accessible to the public. 
 SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 13 Usage of U.S. Government Travel Cards 
 The inspection team reviewed the FY 2013 travel authorization and vouchers 
for the top 
five travelers at OCB. The 
review revealed that that two
 of the five 
travelers did not have a U.S. 
Government travel card.
 One of these travelers was the OCB d
irector
, who took 
20 trips during 
FY 2013. When the inspection team brought up the travel card issue to the OCB d
irector, he 
agreed to apply for a U.S. 
Government travel card.  
 
The review also revealed that one OCB 
employee, who does not travel often, has a travel 
card,
 and another employee who has a travel card chose not to use it for the three 
trips taken 
during FY 2013. In accordance with the Broadcasting Administrative Manual (BAM) 
4-665.1, 
Use of Travel Card, one important purpose of using the travel card is to reduce the need for 

travel advances. During the course of the 
inspection, the
 Office of Chief Financial Officer 
started 
reviewing all OCB travel card 

 to determine whether a travel card is needed. 
However, the inspectors concluded 
that OCB 
also 
shares oversight responsibilities for the travel 
program.
 Failure to perform periodic reviews 
of 
travel cards may lead to employees 
inappropriately using the cards.   
 Recommendation 5:
 The International Broadcasting Bureau, in coordination with the Office of 
Cuba Broadcasting

usage. 
(Action: IBB,
 in coordination with OCB) 
  
Property Management 
  OCB uses the Property Inventory Processing System to track real 
property,
9 nonexpendable property,
10 and all capitalized real and personal property in its Property Inventory 
Processing System. 
OCB 
also uses the Property Inventory Processing System 
to track 
noncapitalized property.
 The inspection team identified several property management 
weaknesses. They are described in the Management Controls section of this report. 
 As part of 
the requisition process to purchase equipment, a 
requesting office identifies 
equipment as accountable property.
 An accountable item is any equipment worth less than 
$5,000 or sensitive property (i.e.,
 a laptop).
 A review of items on purchase order logs found that 
some equipment items 
were erroneously identified to be accountable 
by the requesting office.
 It 
appears that some requesting offices did not have an understanding of what makes 
an 
accountable item.
 The inspection team suggested that OCB review the accuracy of accountable 
property and remind requesting offices about the definition of an accountable item.
  The inspection team reviewed items 
valued at more than 
$10,000 in the 
OCB inventory.
 The review included items in the OCB 
warehouse, the Miami office, the Marathon Transmitting 
                                                  9 Real property assets primarily consist of administrative and transmitting facilities, including land, used for the 
mission of BBG. The major classes of real property are land, buildings, and structures. 
10 Nonexpendable, noncapitalized property has an acquisition value between $5,000 and $25,000. Capitalized 
property is over $25,000. Other sensitive items less than $5,000 are controlled by OCB, including laptop computers, 
iPads and tablets, cameras, wireless microphones transmitters and receivers, camcorders, VCRs, and mini digital 
video equipment and monitors. 
 SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 14 site, and the Naval Air Station 
in Key West.
 Most items were located and appeared to be in good 
condition, but others were difficult to find.
 For example, three items were listed as being located 
in the Miami office but were in the warehouse,
 pending disposal as excess property.
 One item 
listed in Marathon was found at the OCB warehouse. The 
issue of management controls in the 
OCB property management program is discussed under the Management Controls 
section of this 
report. 
 Human 
Resources 
 The IBB Office of Human Resources provides adequate support to OCB.
 Because of 
budget constraints, at the time of the inspection the human resources 
specialist position had
 been 
vacant for 9 
months,
 with 
no plan for 
filling 
it. As a result, OCB has assigned human resources 
functions to different administrative personnel. The 
inspection team did not receive any concerns 
from employees about 
human resources support.  
 Performance Evaluatio
ns  The performance evaluation process needs attention 
from all OCB managers.
 At the time 
of the inspection, for the 2011
2012 rating period, two performance evaluations 
were still 
delinquent.
 For 2012
2013, OCB management told the IBB 
Office of Human Resources,
 as well 
as the inspection team,
 that most performance 
evaluations were 
delayed because of construction 
in the office and difficulty accessing files and documents.
 A few 
managers asserted they were in 
the process of completing the performance evaluations 
by the end of November 2013.   
 Several 
employees 
reported 
that the employee evaluation process was perfunctory.
 Although most employees get informal feedback about their performance, some said that they 

were just given a competed performance evaluation form to sign and were discouraged from 

reviewing it or adding to it. In accordance with the Manual of Operations and Administration 5-

450, Performance Management, it is the responsibility of the rating officer to prepare a timely 

performance evaluation and use the document to discuss with the subordinate the 
duties and 
performance requirements of the position, as well as the employee
s performance.
 This process 
also provides an opportunity for supervisors and employees to identify the employee
s strengths 
and areas in which performance could be improved or supervisory assistance is required.  
 Recommendation 6:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting 
should finalize the 
20112012 and 
20122013 annual performance evaluations for all employees. (Action: OCB) 
 
Position Descriptions 
  A review of position descriptions 
revealed inconsistencies in the designation of 
supervisory responsibilities. Some position descriptions did not reflect current responsibilities. 

According to the IBB 
Office of Human Resources, 
all position descriptions were updated 
between 2009 and 2010.
 In addition, OCB 
managers were asked to review the position 
descriptions 
of all employees in 2012.
 As a result, the position descriptions 
were unchanged from 
the earlier review and no updates were necessary. The 
supervisor indicated changes needed to be 
made in only a few cases. The IBB 
Office of Human Resources has been working with OCB 
to resolve 
this issue 
but 
has made 
little progress. 
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 15  Employees expressed to the inspection team that some of their duties have changed 
dramatically 
as 
a result of being moved to other functions within OCB. 
They attested
 that their 
responsibilities have changed but were 
not reflected in their position descriptions. 
Given that the 
IBB Office of Human Resources 
is in the process of updating some OCB position descriptions, 
the inspection team suggested that 
OCB ask all managers to review the position descriptions 
of 
their employees. 

 Training 
 OCB has a dedicated employee 
who is responsible for identifying and enrolling staff in 
training courses. Although 
most employees said they receive training from time to time, 
no one 
keep
s track of the 

 training courses or the training courses that employees 
need to 
take for professional development. A 
more systematic approach would help OCB 
to have a better 

. The inspection team suggested that OCB implement 
a training plan for all employees. 
 Equal Employment Opportunity 

  
 Employees indicated 
that they were aware of the Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO
) program, 
the Office of Civil Rights,
 and
 the Office of Ombudsman. The inspection team noted 
that the office does not have a dedicated EEO bulletin board. The 
EEO and sexual harassment 
information posted at the entrance of the facility dates
 from 1999. The 
inspector
s 
asked OCB 
management to take down 

 The IBB Office of Civil Rights staff visited OCB in early 2014. 
 Technology and Information Management 
 The OCB computer services division meets the needs of the OCB users as demonstrated 
in the OIG questionnaires, in which most respondents expressed high satisfaction 
with information technology support.
 With the assistance of 
the BBG Information Technology 
Management 
Division, the OCB computer services division has 
an action and milestones p
lan that lists the significant issues associat
ed with the information technology systems.
 OCB updates 
the 
plan 
often 
to show progress in correcting and mitigating the issues 
listed on the plan. 
 Facilities 
 Fire 
and Construction Implications 
  
 On April 21, 2013, OCB had
 fire 
damages to 
an exterior 
wall. 
The smoke and the 
sprinklers damaged 10,000 square feet of office space, which represents 20 percent of the 


floor space. The Dade County Fire Department Investigation Report concluded that 
the fire was accidental. A
s a result of the damage inside the building,
 50 OCB employees were 
displaced and took temporary quarters in other offices and on long tables throughout the 

building.
 OCB staff expressed to the inspection team 
health concerns 
from the initial smoke 
inside the building. 
OCB management contacted 
an independent environmental testing firm to 
measure the air quality in the building in the weeks following the fire. According to OCB, 

additional air quality testing was conducted in March 2014, which confirmed that the air quality 

in the building was safe.  
 SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 16  The building renovation and reoccupancy by OCB staff has been much slower than 
anticipated.
 This delay has been reportedly due to the building owner and the insurance company 
being at odds over the insurance claim. 
BBG and OCB 
officials 
repeatedly 
asked 
the 
General 
Services Administration to issue a cure notice to the landlord for failure to diligently proceed 

with fire repairs.  
  After weeks of appeals to various General Services 
Administration officials, the notice 
was issued. At the time of the inspection, construction to damaged areas was underway. 
The 
acting general manager proposed changes to two renovation and construction projects that OCB 
management 
had previously approved 
and 
were in progress. 
First, proposed changes 
to the 
newsroom floor 
plan and furniture configuration would have required additional desktops for 
cubicles 
and new frames, panels, and electrical equipment. Also, the furniture installer had been 
scheduled under the prior configuration and other contractors also had been scheduled to provide 

services for the renovation and transition of personnel back to normal operations.   

 
 The inspection team requested a cost and schedule impact if the acting general manag

proposed changes were carried out. The 
building owner emphatically stated that he had paid for 
interior renovations, such as new carpeting and electrical and fiber optic cabling,
 and 
that he 
would not pay for having to redo much of this work. 
After the inspection team inquired 
about the 
issue, the acting general manager agreed to use the original newsroom configuration plan.   
 Safety 
  The use of the automated external defibrillator (AED), combined with knowledge of 


OCB claims that 
18 employees in the Miami 
office 
were trained on the use of the AEDs in September 2013. 
According to OCB, employees at the Marathon transmitting station have been trained by the Red 

Cross
 in the past 
and will receive 
refresher training later in 2014.
 The inspection team did not 
identify 
the 18 employees allegedly trained in September 2013, either i
n the use of the AED or 
how to perform 
cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
 In addition, the inspectors did not receive 
specific information regarding when the AED 
training will take place for employees in the 
Marathon transmitting station.    
 SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 17 Management Controls 
 The inspection team identified several 
management control weaknesses 
in administrative 
operations,
 including 
lack of financial management review for unliquidated obligations, 
anomalies in the travel of the acting general manager, and lack of contracting oversight and 
property management 
procedures.
  
 
Unliquidated Obligations 

 As of September 3, 2013, 
prior to the on-site inspection, 
OCB had approximately  
$2.2 million 
in unliquidated obligations 
for FY 2013.
 The BBG Office of Chief Financial Officer 
generates a monthly status of unliquidated obligations 
report.
11 These reports are sent to BBG 
offices, including OCB, for review. OCB 
asserts that it reviews monthly unliquidated obligations 
reports 
received from the Office of Chief Financial Officer and deobligates items that are 
determined to be no longer valid. 
However, given the large amount of unliquidated obligations in 
FY 2013, it leads the inspection team to determine that OCB has not been periodically reviewing 

obligations and certifying 
whether they are still valid or 
whether funds or available balances can 
be deobligated.  
 
The BBG Office of Chief Financial Officer sent a memo, dated July 8, 2013, that requires 

that are now expired before 

OCB 
had reduced the total unliquidated obligations to $1,611,312. Despite this effort, 
unliquidated 
obligations totaling $188,015 
from FYs 2009
2012 
still remain. Unliquidated obligations 
in the amount of 
$40,632 have no-year budget authority. These funds in particular can be 
reprogrammed for other OCB programming use.  
 Recommendation 7:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should 
deobligate $188,015
 in unliquidated obligations for 
FYs 20092012, reprogram $40,63
2 in unliquidated obligations that 
have no-year budget authority,
 and implement a review system for future 
unliquidated 
obligations for potential deobligation. (Action: OCB) 
  OCB is continuing to reduce the unliquidated obligations from prior years.
 Since the time 
of the on
-site 
inspection 
in November 2013, the unliquidated obligations have been reduced. 
At this time, OCB holds only $47,718 in unliquidated obligations 
for FYs 2009
2012. The 
inspection team commends such action and encourages the continuing 
reduction of the other 
unliquidated amounts cited in this report. 
 Travel Arrangement
 for Acting General Manager 
 The 
acting general manager has a unique 
travel arrangement. 
On June 19, 2013, 
about 2 
months after the temporary detail started,
 OCB, the IBB Office of Performance Review,
 and 
the Office of the Chief Financial Officer entered into an 
informal travel arrangement 
that describes 
                                                 11 A recorded obligation reduces by the amount of payments made on bills received. The obligated balance still 
owed is the unliquidated balance. When all services or goods have been received and paid for, the obligation is 
considered liquidated, and any remaining balance should be deobligated to make the funds available for other uses.
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 18 the travel support for the OCB acting general manager. 
On the basis of 
the needs of OCB and 
the Office of Performance Review, the acting general manager, who is an employee with the IBB 
Office of Performance Review based in Washington, 
DC, is on extended detail and TDYs 
between Washington,
 DC, (permanent duty station) and Miami (TDY location). 
Directors of 
both OCB and 
the Office of Performance Review have agreed to let the employee commute as 
need
ed between his permanent duty station, TDY location, and his home in Los Angeles (his 
second residence). 
The extended TDY began in early April,
 with no foreseeable end date.  
  For trips made from April to June 2013, the Office of the Chief Financial Officer 
coordinated and made travel arrangements for 
the acting general manager, 
including 
the nonofficial travel segments to his Los Angeles home or other locations on the West Coast. 
Airfare cost is capped at the constructed roundtrip fare or a Government refundable fare between 
Washington, 
DC, and Miami roundtrip, whichever is lower. The inspection team has evidence 
that in April 2013 the IBB Office of Performance Review 
did a constructive travel a
nalysis to 
show the preliminary cost savings (inclusive of hotels and car rentals) that may be achieved from 

these weekly weekend returns as compared to biweekly returns. However, 
the IBB Office of 
Performance Review 
did n
ot do an 
additional constructive travel 
analysis in May or June.  
  
 After June 24, 2013, a new travel arrangement 
started because of the acting general 

to and 
from 
locations other than official travel 
points, last-minute changes 
in reservations, and resource constraints in the IBB travel office. 
The 
travel o
ffice agreed to continue making travel arrangements only for the official segments,
 and
 the acting general manager will arrange the personal portion 
on his own. For example, if the trip 
involves two segments
between Washington, 
DC, and Miami, which is official business,
 and 
between Miami and Los Angeles, which is nonofficial
the travel o
ffice will be responsible for 
the trip approval and ticketing within the E2 travel management system for the Washington, 
DC, and Miami segment only. 

 On September 
22, 
-time 
TDY 
to a 120-day temporary promotion to OCB on a full-
time basis.
 OCB and the IBB Office of 
Performance Review agreed at the beginning of the temporary promotion that the IBB Office of 

Performance Review would continue to pay the 

promotion period and that OCB would pay for all per diem and related travel expenses while he 
is working in Miami.   
 The inspection team reviewed information that suggested BBG can pay for 
the acting 

, as long as it is less than the cost of housing and per diem for 
the same days

sonal travel is greater than housing and per 
diem, OCB 
should be paid for it. A 
BBG official reviewing this situation stated

he U.S. 
Government can pay for travel only if it is work related. There is no legal authorization that 
would enable a Federal ag

savings. That would not be appropriate and neither is using taxpayer funds for unauthorized, 

non-work related travel.

  A review of t
he acting general manager

 work 
schedule 
showed 
that he works 3
 days a week 
in the Miami office and 
teleworks 2
 days from 
California or Washington State.
 OCB management supports this arrangement because the acting general manager has applied 

corrective actions 
that he 
recommended when he reviewed 
the OCB operations as an analyst for 
 SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 19 the IBB Office of Performance Review.
 
difference in salaries between 
[that] 
of the acting general manager and the former manager 
almost solely make up for the TDY costs the acting general manager has incurred during the 
TDY.
 In the absence of constructive travel or any official cost-saving information, the 
inspection team only used available travel vouchers to arrive a
t the conclusion that this 
arrangement is costly. 
 
Between April and October 2013, BBG paid about $20,000 in travel costs. 
The inspection 
team supports the idea of having a permanent full-time employee serving as general manager 

instead of paying travel costs for the current acting general manager.
 To the acting general 

, but no one has been chosen 
for the job.
 With decreased funding for travel costs, paying 
for someone to serve in a position in 
a different duty station 
needs to be resolved.  
 
Recommendation 8:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting, in coordination with the International 
Broadcasting Bureau, should terminate the current travel agreement of the acting general 

manager 
immediately and fill 
the general manager position with a full-time permanent employee.
 (Action: OCB,
 in coordination with IBB) 
  
Property Management Records and Procedures 
  The OCB property management program had significant management control 
deficiencies because,
 in accordance with BAM 12-107
 Accounting for Nonexpendable Property 
and Sensitive Equipment and Capitalized Property,
 the accountable property officer, under the 
supervision of the property control officer, is responsible for ensuring that all nonexpendable 
property and sensitive equipment is properly received and processed,
 including creating property 
records in the Property Inventory Processing System 
and placing a BBG barcode that shall 
remain affixed to the property from when it is received until it is disposed of. 

 
 OCB management was not keeping property records current nor was 
it enforcing internal 
controls 
for several reasons.
 One reason is that the OCB property control officer is also the 
facilities and telecommunications 
manager; he also provides engineering assistance. The 
inspectors also found that the IBB Property 
Management Office in Washington has not asked 
OCB for updated property records. As a result, no OCB inventories 
were performed during 
FYs 
2012 and 2013.
 According to OCB equipment purchase
 records from January through September 
2013, 25 equipment purchases worth 
$5,000 or more 
were not reflected in the OCB property 
records.
 Lack of accurate property records can lead to waste of property 
and vulnerabilities in 
BBG financial statements.
  
Recommendation 9:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should conduct and update 
inventory 
records, provide updated reports 
to the International Broadcasting Bureau,
 Property Management 
Office,
 and implement property internal controls 
procedures.
 (Action: OCB) 
 
 In November 2012, OCB disposed of 
166 items.
 Most of these items were computers and 
laptops that were donated to a computer recycling company. An additional 37 
items were 
identified for disposal,
 but OCB had not 
disposed of them 
at the time of the inspection. The 
inspection team was not able to determine why OCB did not have a regular disposal schedule or 

why it donated the laptops to a recycling company. According to BAM 12-111.1
, Property 
 SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 20 Disposal Procedures (to include Property Transfers Outside of Agency),
 excess property should 
be either transferred to another Federal agency or disposed of through the General Services 
Administration. 
  
Recommendation 10:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should stop using its current disposal 
practice and transfer all excess property to another Federal agency or dispose of 
it through the 
General Services Administration. (Action: OCB) 

 
 OCB has not provided accurate capitalized property reports to the IBB Property 

Management Office, as required by BAM 12-114.2,
 Reporting on Property. For 2012, 13 of the 
37 items 
marked for disposal 
are capitalized property. The items may still be depreciated,
 even 
though the equipment is not in use and has been moved to the OCB warehouse.
  
 For 2013, 
capitalized property reports 
showed 
property locations that were not clear.
 In 
addition, the 
capitalized p
roperty reports had material discrepancies in reporting. For example, a 
UHF TV broadcasting system for Aero Martí 
was listed 
for $3,160,621
 in the 2011 capitalized 
propert
y report
. In 
the 2012 report,
 the same item was listed as $4,578,714, 
without explanation. 
In 2013, the item had a value of $4,578,711
. Th
ese 
discrepancies 
may be attributable
 to the 
former accountable property officer, since retired, who purchased 
new equipment that was added 
to the UHF system,
 thereby increasing total system costs by about $1.4 million,
 instead of 
separately reporting the equipment. Capitalized property is an area that auditors address in 



  Recommendation 11:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should perform an 
accurate capitalized 
property 
inventory 
and provide the report
 to the International 
Broadcasting Bureau,
 Property 
Management Office. (Action: OCB) 

 
 OCB has items, such as portable video cameras,
 that are routinely removed for usage 
without any hand receipts or property passes,
 as required by BAM 12-107.4,
 Hand Receipts, and 
BAM 12-108
, Removal of Property Non-Expendable Property. In June 2013, an OCB 
video camera and related equipment valued at $25,154 were 
stolen from an OCB vehicle. The 
inspection team found no evidence that a hand receipt was assigned to an employee or 
employees. Currently, the p
roperty control o
fficer does not follow a process to comply with 
BAM 12-112
, Reporting Lost, Stolen, Damaged, or Destroyed Property. This lack of 
accountability and documented process in place may result in loss or theft of high
-value items. 
 Recommendation 12:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should implement issuance property 
management procedures for all nonexpendable and sensitive property.
 (Action: OCB) 
  
procedures for maintaining 
official records 
are 
not current.
 At the OCB 
warehouse, the inspection team found about 200 unmarked boxes stacked on the warehouse 
floor. The OCB property control officer had no records detailing the age or contents of the boxes 

but believed that they may be old radio and TV program files. According to interviews with 
some employees, 
the 
radio and TV offices performed 
a 
of documents a few years 

 OCB officials said that the reason why the 
records management function is not current is because of the newsroom fire in 2013,
 which 
resulted in the displacement of employees and records. In accordance with BAM 3-500,
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 21 Communications and Records,
 public or sensitive recor
ds should be identified, maintained,
 and 
disposed of accordingly.
    Recommendation 13:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should 
implement procedures for 
maintaining and retiring official records.
 (Action: OCB) 
    SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 22 Security 
 Office of Cuba Broadcasting, Marathon Transmitting Station, and Naval Air Station in 
Key West  
  The inspection team identified some security deficiencies in OCB facilities, mostly at the 

Miami office. The Federal Protective Service, through private security guards, has around-the-
clock oversight responsibility. 
[Redacted] (b) (5), [Redacted] (b) (7)(F)      
 The Marathon Transmitting Station has 
[Redacted] (b) (5), [Redacted] (b) (7)(F)     
 The U.S. Navy controls the security program at the Naval Air Station in Key West, and 

OCB provides proper security support for its building within the grounds. It has an office at the 
Naval Air Station in order to manage the now-grounded transmitting plane from the Aero Martí 
program. Currently,
[Redacted] (b) (5)    Prior to the on-site inspection of OCB, the IBB Office of Securi
ty provided to the 
inspection team the security assessment trip reports from 2009 to 2013. The 2012 and 2013 IBB 

security assessment reports were similar in describing minor security issues. The inspection team 

concluded that some of the vulnerabilities identified during the course of the inspection could 

have been identified in the IBB security assessments trip reports. The OIG team counseled the 

IBB 
Office of Security senior staff on the need to conduct robust security assessments of BBG 
facilities. 
 Security Officer Duties 
  The OCB security officer has collateral administrative and security duties. Besides the 

security portfolio, she is responsible for administrative actions, which include 

five 
vehicles, preparing travel authorizations and vouchers, serving as training officer, and 
addressing personnel actions. Considering the high-profile and controversial nature of OCB
 work and the number of employees who work at the facility,
[Redacted] (b) (5), [Redacted] (b) (7)(F)  The issue was raised in the 2007 OIG inspection report, which 
recommended that OCB create a full-time security officer.   
 
 In compliance correspondence between OIG and BBG, BBG indicated that a security 
officer had been hired.
 [Redacted] (b) (5), [Redacted] (b) (7)(F)  He worked exclusively on emergency 
plans for 2 months in 2009, and 
[Redacted] (b)  (5), [Redacted] (b) (7)(F)[Redacted] (b) (5), [Redacted] (b) (7)(F)  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 23   [Redacted] (b) (5), [Redacted] (b) (7)(F)[Redacted] (b) (5), [Redacted] (b) (7)(F)Emergency Preparedness 
  The inspection team did not find any evidence that employees have participated in 

regular fire drills or intruder drills in the Miami office or at the Marathon Transmitting Station. 

These emergency drills are not considered top priorities. The OCB security officer has not 

designated safe rooms where employees would assemble during an intruder attack or evacuation 

meeting points in case of 
a fire. In the event of a fire or intruder crisis, valuable time would be 
lost giving directions to employees or placing all employees in safe locations. Sound security 
practices dictate that routine emergency drills are critical to a successful response in crises.  
 
Rec
ommendation 15:
 The Office of Cuban Broadcasting should conduct and document routine 
fire and intruder drills and identify safe rooms. (Action: OCB) 
[Redacted] (b) (5), [Redacted] (b) (7)(F) SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 24  Security Committee 
  The 2010 Federal Interagency Security Committee Standards state that 
a Facility Security 
Committee should be in place to oversee security, life safety, and emergency plans at a Federal 
facility. OCB does not have a Facility Security Committee. The OCB security officer was not 
aware of this requirement. With a committee in place, acceptance and understanding of security 

policies would be better understood throughout OCB.  
[Redacted] (b) (5), [Redacted] (b) (7)(F) SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 25 Recommendation 19:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should establish a Facility Security 
Comm
ittee. (Action: OCB) 
 Visitor Access List and Secure Telephone Equipment  
  OCB doe
s not have a visitor access policy or a formalized system for tracking visitors. 
Curre
ntly, guests often arrive at the facility without proper notification to the guards. In these 
case
s the guard at Post Three has to radio the guard at Post One, who then needs to get 
authoriza
tion from the receiving employee. This process is inefficient and diverts the security 


verbal authorization. Good security practice mandates a formalized policy and procedure to 
receive visitors at a Federal facility. The inspection team made a suggestion that OCB 

manage
ment implement a visitor access process. 
  
 In reviewing the storage of classified equipment,
  [Redacted] (b) (5), [Redacted] (b) (7)(F)      SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 26 List of Recommendations 
 Recommendation 1:
 The International Broadcasting Bureau, in coordination with the Office 
of Cuba Broadcasting, should implement oversight and contract administration procedures for 
Office of Cuba Broadcasting contracts, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation. 

(Action: IBB, in coordination with OCB)
 Recommendation 2:
 The International Broadcasting Bureau, in coordination with the Office 


for Office of Cuba Broadcasting contracts, confirm that the designation letters are signed 
and 
dated, and include the designation letter in the contracting files, in accordance with the Federal 
Acquisition Regulation. (Action: IBB, in coordination with OCB)
 Recommendation 3:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting, in coordination with the Internationa
l 
vendor contracts comply with contract administration requirements outlined in designation letters 

and complete the contractor performance evaluation. (Action: OCB, in coordination with IBB)
 Recommendation 4:
 The International Broadcasting Bureau, in coordination with the Office 
of Cuba Broadcasting, should stop using blanket purchase agreements and purchase orders for 

purchase order vendor contracts and obtain personal services contract authority for all purchase 

order vendor contracts. (Action: IBB, in coordination with OCB)
 Recommendation 5:
 The International Broadcasting Bureau, in coordination with the Office 
of Cuba Broadcasting, should review periodicall

usage. (Action: IBB, in coordination with OCB)
 Recommendation 6:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should finalize the 2011
2012 and 
20122013 annual performance evaluations for all employees. (Action: OCB)
 Recommendation 7:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should deobligate $188,015 in 
unliquidated obligations for FYs 2009
2012, reprogram $40,632 in unliquidated obligations that 
have no-year budget authority, and implement a review system for future unliquidated 
obligations for potential deobligation. (Action: OCB)
 Recommendation 8:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting, in coordination with the International 
Broadcasting Bureau, should terminate the current travel agreement of the acting general 
manager immediately and fill the general manager position with a full-time permanent employee. 

(Action: OCB, in coordination with IBB)
 Recommendation 9:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should conduct and update inventory 
records, provide updated reports to the International Broadcasting Bureau, Property Management 

Office, and implement property internal controls procedures. (Action: OCB)
 Recommendation 10:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should stop using its current disposal 
practice and transfer all excess property to another Federal agency or dispose of it through the 

General Services Administration. (Action: OCB)
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 27 Recommendation 11:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should perform an accurate 
capitalized property inventory and provide the report to the International Broadcasting Bureau, 
Propert
y Management Office. (Action: OCB)
 Recommendation 12:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should implement issuance property 
management procedures for all nonexpendable and sensitive property. (Action: OCB)
 Recommendation 13:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should implement procedures for 
maintaining and retiring official records. (Action: OCB)
 [Redacted] (b) (5), [Redacted] (b) (7)(F)Rec
ommendation 15:
 The Office of Cuban Broadcasting should conduct and document 
routine fire and intruder drills and identify safe rooms. (Action: OCB)
 Recommendation 16:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting, in coordination with the International 
Broadcasting Bureau, should replace the emergency intercom at Post One with a modern system 

that includes automated voice instructions and alert sounds. (Action: OCB, in coordination with 

IBB)
 [Redacted] (b) (5), [Redacted] (b) (7)(F)Rec
ommendation 19:
 The Office of Cuba Broadcasting should establish a Facility Security 
Commit
tee. (Action: OCB)
    SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 28 Principal Officials 
  Name
 Arrival 
Date
 Director
 Carlos A.
 Garcia
-Perez
 11/10 General Manager (Acting)
 John Lippman
 04/13 Director for Administration
 Irvin Rubenstein
 05/85 Staff Director
 Emilio Vasquez
 11/10  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 29 Abbreviations 
 AED  
Automated external defibrillator  
BAM   
Broadcasting Administrative Manual  
BPA   
Blanket purchase agreement  
COR   

 Department  
U.S. Department of State  
DVD  Digital video disk  
EEO   
Equal Employment Opportunity  
FAR   
Federal Acquisition Regulation  
GAO   
Government Accountability Office  
IBB   
International Broadcasting Bureau  
OCB   
Office of Cuba Broadcasting  
OIG  
Office of Inspector General 
 SMS  
Short message service  
TDY   
Temporary duty  
VOA  Voice of America  
  17  
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 14 12 11 4 6 16 10 2 4 2 ii 6 4 2  SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED 
SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED 
   FRAUD, WASTE, ABUSE,
 OR MISMANAGEMENT
 OF FEDERAL PROGRAMS 
HURTS EVERYONE. 
 CONTACT THE 
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL 
HOTLINE 
TO REPORT ILLEGAL 
OR WASTEFUL ACTIVITIES: 
 202-647-3320 
800-409-9926 
oighotline@state.gov 
oig.state.gov
  Office of Inspector General 
U.S. Department of State 
P.O. Box 9778 
Arlington, VA 22219 
 