(866) 308-7838info@emergencyassistancefdn.org               Home COVID-19 About  EAF Your Team Partners Testimonials EAF In The News Education Group   Global Services  International Fund Expertise   Six Steps Resources  How a Fund Works Articles Educational Videos / Webinars Fund Partner Portal White Paper Webinar: Understanding Relief Funds Webinar: EAF Technology Enhances Relief Fund Performance FAQ Donor Bill of Rights   Fund Portals Blog Contact  I Need Help with my Application/Grant I Want to Set-Up a Relief Fund Media Inquiries                                  EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE FOUNDATION   EMERGENCY HARDSHIP GRANTS We help corporations make emergency hardship grants for their employees when they face unexpected and unavoidable financial hardships or disasters.
 Our team has decades of experience and an impressive list of credentials and accomplishments.
 Below are some highlights:  Created an international donation and grant process for multiple countries including translation and currency exchange services.
 Responsible for donor service and administration of 140+ funds, providing more than 12,000 grants and 30,000 donations annually.
 Founder of the Employee Relief Fund Education Group, who’s mission is to foster professional relationships and provide value driven resources that lead to successful corporate Funds and ultimately enrich the lives of employees on a global scale.
 Researched and analyzed more than 100 Employee Relief Funds to create a set of industry best practices.
 Performed Audits of self-administered Employee Relief Funds for regulatory compliance and Employee Relief Fund best practices.
 Develop industry used White Papers that share industry best practices.
 Consulted non-profit organizations for more than 20 years.
 Published "Emergency Assistance Funds (EAFs) for Employee Hardship and Disaster Relief: Legal, Tax and Design Considerations," an online article for the Planned Giving Design Center, describing the 16 critical decisions that must be made when establishing a program.
 Emergency Assistance Foundation can provide your company with the knowledge and experience to build a truly successful Employee Relief Fund.
 EAF is the only disaster relief charity that has thoroughly researched the field, audited other programs, spoken publicly and published extensively on the topic, AND created a Best Practices model.
 Further, our team are experts in fund management, legal compliance and IRS requirements.
 DON'T WORRY!
 It’s our job to make the process easy.
 When you partner with EAF to implement your Employee Relief Fund, you’ll work with an incredibly efficient, highly-experienced team.
 As a result, your employees will experience an easy and straightforward application and grant process.
 Let’s get started.
 EAF is a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt, public, non-profit organization with IRS approval specifically for Employee Hardship and Disaster Relief Funds which can be administered nationally and internationally.
 ESTABLISH A FUND TODAY     What We Do The Emergency Assistance Foundation, Inc. is a 501(c)(3) charity created to design and operate multiple employer-sponsored disaster relief and employee hardship funds.
 These funds allow domestic and international employers and employees to help their coworkers in times of crises.
 EAF is a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt, public, non-profit organization with IRS approval specifically for Employee Hardship and Disaster Relief Funds which can be administered in the United States, Canada, Singapore, United Kingdom, Germany and internationally.
 Contact Us Emergency Assistance Foundation, Inc.
 I Need Help with my Application/Grant  I Want to Set-Up a Relief Fund   Engage with EAF EAF LinkedIn page  @EmployeeRelief   Become an Employee Relief Fund Education Group (ERFEG) member Gain exclusive access to educational content, network with peers, and learn how to run a successful relief fund program.
