SECTIONS  Skip to Content                 South Carolina declares hepatitis outbreak.
 What you need to know          By Tom Barton    May 13, 2019 04:49 PM,                                                   ORDER REPRINT      →                         COLUMBIA, S.C. What began as a spike in reported hepatitis A cases in Aiken County has now spread to other parts of South Carolina, prompting state public health officials Monday to declare a statewide outbreak.
 Since Nov. 1, the state has recorded 86 reported cases of the contagious disease, more than four times what state officials normally expect to see, a state health official said Monday.
 Most have occurred in Aiken County, and almost half of all cases involve individuals who reported drug use, said State Epidemiologist Linda Bell.
 Confirmed cases of hepatitis A in South Carolina from Nov. 1, 2018 to May 10, 2019.
 Over the last 10 years, South Carolina averaged 19 reported cases of hepatitis A annually.
 Bell, though, cautioned the general population need not “be overly concerned about” the surge in people across the state contracting the virus.
 The Buzz on SC Politics Go beyond the headlines and get insights from The State’s politics team in this weekly newsletter.
 Recaptcha SIGN UP This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
 “And so it’s important for us to do our prevention efforts early to reach those high-risk groups, get them vaccinated ... so that we can prevent” a severe outbreak.
 Dr. Linda Bell, South Carolina state epidemiologist and director of the Bureau of Communicable Disease Prevention and Control                       S.C. Department of Health and Environmental Control                   SCDHEC As part of its outreach, DHEC says it is offering no-cost vaccines to groups the agency has identified as high risk, which are drug users, homeless, formerly incarcerated and sexually active gay men, according to DHEC.
 Additionally, health officials recommend all children get two doses of the vaccine as part of their immunization schedule.
 The surge in hepatitis A cases statewide coincides with a national outbreak that began in 2016.
 But the outbreak is worse in other states, Bell said.
 All-access digital subscription Connect to local news for just $4.99 a month for 12 months.
 Hepatitis is a disease characterized by inflammation of the liver.
 It comes in many forms, including hepatitis A, B and C. As a result, individuals with chronic liver disease, like cirrhosis, are at increased risk of complications if infected and should be vaccinated.
 The virus-borne infection can be prevented by vaccination and is usually transmitted person-to-person through consumption of contaminated food or water, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
 Antibodies produced in response to hepatitis A infection last for life and protect against reinfection.
 Infection usually results in sickness in two to six weeks after exposure.
 Symptoms include fatigue, loss of appetite, stomach pain, nausea, and yellowing of the eyes and skin.
 Symptoms usually resolve within two months of infection, according to the CDC.
 State public health officials in February declared an outbreak in Aiken County after an employee at a second restaurant in Aiken tested positive for the virus, according to DHEC.
 Bell, though, stressed transmission by food or beverage is uncommon.
 “Most transmission in the United States is through person-to-person contact,” Bell said.
 For more information, visit the DHEC website or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website.
 Related stories from The State in Columbia SC       food-drink           Savannah restaurant worker diagnosed with hepatitis, health officials say           January 20, 2019 6:45 PM            local           Hundreds get vaccinated after SouthPark area hepatitis A scare           November 15, 2018 1:18 PM            north-carolina           NC reports the first death from Hepatitis A outbreak           November 06, 2018 1:10 PM                       Tom Barton              803-771-8304     Tom Barton covers South Carolina politics for The State.
 He has spent more than a decade covering local governments and politicians in Iowa and South Carolina, and has won awards from the S.C. Press Association and Iowa Newspaper Association for public service and feature writing.
 KEEP READING  	        Trending Stories            Tiny home village opening in West Columbia.
 “It’s not a mobile home.”           November 06, 2020 12:08 PM
