Also, please see the attached document for the topics that are addressed in the Human Sexuality curriculum for Kindergarten- Grade 5.Thank you, ~lisa From: Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin)Sent: Wednesday, August 23, 2017 1:11 PMSubject: Reporter following up Thanks for the phone interview, Lisa.
 I am pasting my notes showing what you said below; accurate?
 I remain interested in more detail on when gender identity (or gender fluidity) most often or most likely comes up in the human sexuality curriculum and what teachers say or don’t say.
 I am trying to complete our review this week.
 MY NOTES: Lisa Goodnow, executive director, academic and social emotional learning, Austin Independent School District, Aug. 23, 2017 (what is taught?)
 We have a human sexuality curric that starts at kinder and goes up.
 What’s a friend not a friend; bully-proofing… There is no human sexuality at pre-k at all.
 I can’t identify any curriculum that would address gender identity in pre-k. We checked.
 We have a director of early childhood; there is a curriculum that is taught.
 Our Pre-K curriculum addresses the Texas State Prekindergarten Guidelines.
 In prekindergarten Personal Health and Safety guidelines dictate that children demonstrate an understanding of health and safety issues related to their daily routines and activities.
 Children learn to make healthy choices in nutrition and understand the importance of well-being through exercise and rest.
 You might have a PE or Health, with a human sexuality component following bd policy and state mandates; and tht doesn’t start til kinder.
 Austin ISD's local policy [EHAA (LOCAL)] supports the teaching of a Human Sexuality unit within the Health Education curriculum.
 The current curriculum focuses on issues such as friendship and anti-bullying for elementary students and develops a functional knowledge related to sexuality and the skills necessary to adopt healthy behaviors for middle and high school students.
 (So say the topic comes up; then what happens?)
 That’s when teachers rely on their training as early ch experts as well as the guidance of their principal.
 We could go on and on about what the teacher says to any question.
 As I said yesterday, it is impossible to speculate the range of questions that any student might ask a teacher.
 Professional educators, especially of young children, are trained to value our students' thoughts and feelings and redirect to appropriate content.
 (Kindergarten through fifth and sixth grade?)
 Not at my fingertips; fifth grade is when you would start seeing just the beginning discussion of puberty.
 That’s when you might have that topic come up.
 … Factual… It wouldn’t be until fifth grade g. Want our fact checks first?
 Follow us on Twitter.W.
 :MSIE|rv)[: ]([^\);]+)(\)|;)/.exec(a);if(Sa)return/WebKit\/(\S+)/.exec(a);if(Oa)return/(?
 :Version)[ \/]?
