Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                  Overweight &amp; Obesity             Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                            Adult Obesity Facts     Minus     Related Pages       Obesity Prevalence Maps Adult obesity prevalence by state and territory using self-reported information from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System.
 Obesity is a common, serious, and costly disease  The prevalence of obesity was 42.4% in 2017~2018.
 [Read CDC National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) data brief] From 1999–2000 through 2017–2018, the prevalence of obesity increased from 30.5% to 42.4%, and the prevalence of severe obesity increased from 4.7% to 9.2%.
 [Read CDC NCHS data brief] Obesity-related conditions include heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes and certain types of cancer that are some of the leading causes of preventable, premature death.
 [Read guidelinesexternal icon] The estimated annual medical cost of obesity in the United States was $147 billion in 2008 US dollars; the medical cost for people who have obesity was $1,429 higher than those of normal weight.
 [Read paperexternal icon]  Obesity affects some groups more than others [Read CDC National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) data brief]  Non-Hispanic blacks (49.6%) had the highest age-adjusted prevalence of obesity, followed by Hispanics (44.8%), non-Hispanic whites (42.2%) and non-Hispanic Asians (17.4%).
 The prevalence of obesity was 40.0% among young adults aged 20 to 39 years, 44.8% among middle-aged adults aged 40 to 59 years, and 42.8% among adults aged 60 and older.
 Obesity and socioeconomic status [Read the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR)] The association between obesity and income or educational level is complex and differs by sex and race/ethnicity.
 Overall, men and women with college degrees had lower obesity prevalence compared with those with less education.
 By race/ethnicity, the same obesity and education pattern was seen among non-Hispanic white, non-Hispanic black, and Hispanic women, and also among non-Hispanic white men, although the differences were not all statistically significant.
 Although the difference was not statistically significant among non-Hispanic black men, obesity prevalence increased with educational attainment.
 Among non-Hispanic Asian women and men and Hispanic men there were no differences in obesity prevalence by education level.
 Among men, obesity prevalence was lower in the lowest and highest income groups compared with the middle income group.
 This pattern was seen among non-Hispanic white and Hispanic men.
 Obesity prevalence was higher in the highest income group than in the lowest income group among non-Hispanic black men.
 Among women, obesity prevalence was lower in the highest income group than in the middle and lowest income groups.
 This pattern was observed among non-Hispanic white, non-Hispanic Asian, and Hispanic women.
 Among non-Hispanic black women, there was no difference in obesity prevalence by income.
 Top of Page      Related Links  Obesity Prevalence Maps State-specific data on adult obesity prevalence using self-reported information from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) shows that obesity prevalence remains high in the United States.
 Page last reviewed: June 29, 2020 Content source: 	Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion         homeOverweight &amp; Obesity  About Usplus icon  Why It Matters What CDC Is Doing Making A Difference   Strategies to Prevent &amp; Manage Obesityplus icon  Community Efforts Early Care and Education (ECE)plus icon  State Licensing Scorecards Overview Scoring Methods High-Impact Obesity Prevention Standards State Scorecards Prior Funded Projects (ECE)   Healthy Hospitalsplus icon  Healthy Hospital Practice to Practice Series (P2P) Healthy Hospital Tool Kit   Healthcareplus icon  Childhood Obesity Research Demonstration (CORD) 1.0 Childhood Obesity Research Demonstration (CORD) 2.0 Childhood Obesity Research Demonstration (CORD) 3.0 Childhood Obesity Data Initiative (CODI)plus icon  Childhood Obesity Data Initiative: Technical Information Sheet   Childhood Obesity Management with MEND Implementation Teams (COMMIT!)
 Adult Overweight and Obesityplus icon  Defining Adult Obesity Adult Obesity Causes &amp; Consequences   Childrenplus icon  Defining Childhood Obesity Childhood Obesity Causes &amp; Consequences   Data &amp; Statisticsplus icon  Adult Obesity Facts Childhood Obesity Facts Obesity Among WIC-Enrolled Young Children Data, Trends and Mapsplus icon  Adult Obesity Maps Obesity and COVID-19     Surveillance Systems Resources &amp; Publicationsplus icon  Reports Prevention Strategies &amp; Guidelines Fact Sheets       email_03Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address.
 Email Address  What's this?
 Submit      Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity     About Us Nutrition Physical Activity Overweight &amp; Obesity Healthy Weight Breastfeeding Micronutrient Malnutrition State and Local Programs       Related Topics   Diabetes Nutrition                  HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
