The hospital with 100 isolation beds for COVID-19 patients got another admission on Friday.
 “A man who returned from Italy this week and was lodged at the Army’s quarantine facility in Manesar, Haryana, has tested positive for COVID-19.
 According to the medical protocol, he has been shifted to an isolation facility at Safdarjung Hospital for further medical examination and recovery,” said a senior Health Ministry official.The man was among 83 people who returned from Italy on Wednesday.
 The group was moved to the Army’s quarantine facility at Manesar.Safdarjung Hospital currently has 29 admitted cases, out of which 15 have tested positive, 1 negative and 11 reports are awaited.“India has brought in several measures, including travel restrictions, suspension of visas and self-quarantine.
 Early establishment of surveillance of entry points and universal screening of passengers at airports and vessels at seaports, evacuation of Indian citizens from COVID-19-affected countries, adequate laboratory and quarantine facilities have contributed immensely towards containment and management of COVID-19 in the country,” said the official.
 The Health Ministry has said that if a person shows any sign or symptom like fever, dry cough, difficulty in breathing etc., he or she should visit a doctor or dial the Ministry’s 24X7 helpline number, 011-23978046.
 “Remember to wear a mask before stepping out to see the doctor.According to figures released by the Union Health Ministry, a total 11,71,061 passengers have been screened from 10,876 flights at 30 designated airports.
 Also, 3,062 passengers and 583 contacts were identified and referred to Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme or designated hospitals.
 A total of 42,296 passengers have been brought under community surveillance, out of which 2,559 were symptomatic and 522 hospitalised.
 As many as 25,504 passengers have been additionally screened at major and minor seaports, and more than 14 lakh people have been screened at land ports.
 To get full access, please subscribe.
 Already have an account ?
 Sign in       Show Less Plan   Start your 14 days free trial.
 ?
 "&amp;" : "?")
 To enable wide dissemination of news that is in public interest, we have increased the number of articles that can be read free, and extended free trial periods.
 However, we have a request for those who can afford to subscribe: please do.
 As we fight disinformation and misinformation, and keep apace with the happenings, we need to commit greater resources to news gathering operations.
 We promise to deliver quality journalism that stays away from vested interest and political propaganda.
 It’s a support for truth and fairness in journalism.
 It has helped us keep apace with events and happenings.The Hindu has always stood for journalism that is in the public interest.
 At this difficult time, it becomes even more important that we have access to information that has a bearing on our health and well-being, our lives, and livelihoods.
 gives nod to prosecute Umar Khalid under UAPA        Delhi  UPSC aspirant held for selling videos of private coaching centre        Delhi  Delhi govt.
 bans firecrackers ahead of Diwali        Delhi  Genetic research pilot study by Delhi hospital finds ‘unexpected results’        Delhi  Former Delhi Chief Secretary M.M.
 For Full access   Subscribe Now    X      You have read 1 out of 10 free articles for the month.
 Subscribe Now    x              Subscribe to The Hindu now and get unlimited access.
 Subscribe now  Already have an account?
 as conflict escalates      32mins Bomb attack kills former Afghan TV presenter      35mins Months after starting Chabahar rail project without India, Iran seeks equipment      40mins U.S. Presidential Elections | Are Murdoch’s media outlets dumping Trump?
 ', "bodyText":'We promise to only send you relevant content and give you updates on your transactions', "okButtonText":'Sign me up!
 ', "bodyText":'We promise to only send you relevant content and give you updates on your transactions', "okButtonText":'Sign me up!
