Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People     Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People          Search  Search Icon  Close Icon      × Search NCHS  Search NCHS All CDC     Submit      For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics   Advanced Search    Advanced Search         		  			  				  					  						 Find pages with...  					  					  						 All these words:  						  						  							  								Results must contain all of these words 							  						  					  					  						 This exact word or phrase:  						  						  							  								Results must contain this full phrase 							  						  					  					  						 Any of these words:  						  						  							  								Results must match at least one of these words 							  						  					  					  						 None of these words:  						  						  							  								Results cannot contain any of these words 							  						  					  					  						 Language:  						  							  								 Any  								 English  								 Spanish  								 French  								 German  								 Chinese  								 Korean  								 Vietnamese  								 Japanese  								 Russian  								 Portuguese  								 Italian  							  						  						 Find pages in the language you select  					  					  						  							 Advanced Search  						  					  				  			  		  	            National Center for Health Statistics             Section Navigation           CDC Home                       Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Syndicate                            Daily Updates of Totals by Week and StateProvisional Death Counts for Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19)    minus icon  Contents  Daily Updates of Totals by Week and StateWeekly Updates by Select Demographic and Geographic CharacteristicsExcess Deaths Associated with COVID-19Technical Notes      Minus     Related Pages        Updated:       alert icon    					Note: Provisional death counts are based on death certificate data received and coded by the National Center for Health Statistics as of May 27, 2020.
 Death counts are delayed and may differ from other published sources (see Technical Notes).
 Counts will be updated periodically.
 Additional information will be added to this site as available.
 The provisional counts for coronavirus disease (COVID-19) deaths are based on a current flow of mortality data in the National Vital Statistics System.
 National provisional counts include deaths occurring within the 50 states and the District of Columbia that have been received and coded as of the date specified.
 It is important to note that it can take several weeks for death records to be submitted to National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS), processed, coded, and tabulated.
 Therefore, the data shown on this page may be incomplete, and will likely not include all deaths that occurred during a given time period, especially for the more recent time periods.
 Death counts for earlier weeks are continually revised and may increase or decrease as new and updated death certificate data are received from the states by NCHS.
 COVID-19 death counts shown here may differ from other published sources, as data currently are lagged by an average of 1–2 weeks.
 The provisional data presented on this page include the weekly provisional count of deaths in the United States due to COVID-19, deaths from all causes and percent of expected deaths (i.e., number of deaths received over number of deaths expected based on data from previous years), pneumonia deaths (excluding pneumonia deaths involving influenza), pneumonia deaths involving COVID-19, influenza deaths, and deaths involving pneumonia, influenza, or COVID-19; (a) by week ending date and (b) by specific jurisdictions.
 Table 1 has counts of death involving COVID-19 and select causes of death by the week ending date in which the death occurred.
 For COVID-19 deaths by week ending date at the state level, Click here to download.
 Table 1.
 Deaths involving coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), pneumonia, and influenza reported to NCHS by week ending date, United States.
 Week ending 2/1/2020 to .
 *  Updated   Coronavirus deaths by week-ending date   NOTE: Number of deaths reported in this table are the total number of deaths received and coded as of the date of analysis and do not represent all deaths that occurred in that period.
 The United States population, based on 2018 postcensal estimates from the U.S. Census Bureau, is 327,167,434.
 *Data during this period are incomplete because of the lag in time between when the death occurred and when the death certificate is completed, submitted to NCHS and processed for reporting purposes.
 This delay can range from 1 week to 8 weeks or more, depending on the jurisdiction, age, and cause of death.
 1Deaths with confirmed or presumed COVID-19, coded to ICD–10 code U07.1 2Percent of expected deaths is the number of deaths for all causes for this week in 2020 compared to the average number across the same week in 2017–2019.
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
