Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                 Immigrant and Refugee Health            Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                          Medical Examination of Immigrants and Refugees     Minus     Related Pages      Background  Under the authority of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) and the Public Health Service Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services promulgates regulations outlining the requirements for the medical examination of aliens seeking admission into the United States.
 The Division of Global Migration and Quarantine provides the Department of State (DOS) and the U.S.
 Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) with medical screening guidelines for all examining physicians, which outline in detail the scope of the medical examination.
 The purpose of the medical examination is to identify, for the DOS and USCIS, applicants with inadmissible health-related conditions.
 Topics Frequently Asked Questions Tuberculosis Screening for International Adoptees FAQs Diseases and Vaccines Included Communicable Diseases of Public Health Significance and Vaccine-Preventable Diseases Medical Waivers and INS form, I-601 Laws and Regulations  Technical Instructions, Information and Updates Medical screening guidelines (referred to as Technical Instructions) for all examining physicians, which outline in detail the scope of the medical examination for U.S.  For Civil Surgeons For Panel Physicians  A medical examination is mandatory for all refugees coming to the U.S. and all applicants outside the U.S. applying for an immigrant visa.
 Aliens in the United States who apply for adjustment of their immigration status to that of permanent resident are also required to be medically examined.
 Aliens applying for nonimmigrant visas (temporary admission) may be required to undergo a medical examination at the discretion of the consular officer overseas or immigration officer at the U.S. port of entry, if there is reason to suspect that an inadmissible health-related condition exists.
 Outside the U.S., medical examinations are performed by approximately 600 physicians (panel physicians) selected by DOS consular officials.
 In the U.S., medical examinations are performed by approximately 5,000 physicians (called civil surgeonsExternal) designated by district directors of the USCIS.
 The Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ) is responsible for providing the Technical Instructions to civil surgeons and panel physicians.
 DGMQ does not maintain a listing of civil surgeons and/or panel physicians since civil surgeons are designated by District Directors of the U.S.
 Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)External and panel physicians are selected by the Department of State (DOS)External.
 DGMQ provides the technical instructions and guidance to physicians conducting the medical examination for immigration.
 These instructions are developed in accordance with Section 212(a)(1)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA)External, which states those classes of aliens ineligible for visas or admission based on health-related grounds.
 The health-related grounds include those aliens who have a communicable disease of public health significance, who fail to present documentation of having received vaccination against vaccine-preventable diseases, who have or have had a physical or mental disorder with associated harmful behavior, and who are drug abusers or addicts.
 If an immigrant or refugee has an inadmissible health-related condition, a waiver is required for the applicant to come to the United States.
 This is also the case for an applicant who is in the United States applying for adjustment of status to permanent residence.
 Section 212(g) of the INA providesExternal for the waiver of the health-related grounds of inadmissibility.
 Technical Instructions for Medical Examinations of Aliens Communicable Diseases of Public Health Significance Vaccine-Preventable Diseases Health-Related Waivers  Additional immigration information and regulations are available from the U.S.
 Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)External .
 Page last reviewed: March 29, 2012 Content source: 	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)         homeImmigrant and Refugee Health  About Refugees Medical Examination of Immigrants and Refugeesplus icon  Technical Instructions Frequently Asked Questions Diseases and Vaccines Included Medical Waivers   Electronic Disease Notification System Panel Physician Portal International Adoptionplus icon  Before you Travel Overseas Overseas Medical Exam and Vaccinations International Adoption Tuberculosis FAQsplus icon  Flowchart 1 Flowchart 2   Class A Conditions / Waiver Process Finding a Medical Provider in the U.S. CDC’s International Adoption Goals Links to Other Resources   Refugee Health Guidelinesplus icon  Domestic Guidelinesplus icon  FAQs: Refugee Health Program Guidance Development General Guidelines Guidelines for the History and Physical Hepatitis Screening Guidelinesplus icon  Hepatitis B Diagnostic Chart   HIV Infection Screening Guidelines Immunizations Guidelines Intestinal Parasite Guidelinesplus icon  Flow Chart Outline   Lead Screening Guidelines Malaria Guidelines Mental Health Screening Guidelines Nutrition and Growth Guidelines Sexually Transmitted Diseases Guidelines Tuberculosis Guidelines   Overseas Guidelinesplus icon  Malaria Guidelines Intestinal Parasite Guidelines   Overseas Interventionsplus icon  Treatment Schedules for Presumptive Parasitic Infections Vaccination Program for U.S.-Bound Refugees     Refugee Health Profiles Laws and Regulationsplus icon  Final Rule: Revisions to Medical Screening Processplus icon  Frequently Asked Questions Notice of Proposed Rule Proposed Rule Frequently Asked Questions   Final Rule: Removal of HIV Entry Banplus icon  General Questions and Answers Technical Questions and Answers HIVEcon Model   Revised Vaccination Criteria for U.S. Immigrationplus icon  Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)   Interim Final Rule Revising Medical Examination of Aliens (42 CFR Part 34)plus icon  Frequently Asked Questions View Public Comments     Immigrant and Refugee Resources Migrant Serum Bank    Related LinksTechnical Instructions for Panel Physicians and Civil SurgeonsUnited States-Mexico Public HealthGlobal HealthGlobal Health Protection and SecurityDivision of Global Migration and Quarantine           HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
