Skip to content                     An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know   Here’s how you know          Official websites use .gov       A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
 Secure .gov websites use HTTPS       A lock (  LockA locked padlock  ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website.
 Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
 skip to main navigation             United States  Drug Enforcement Administration         Who We Are        About           Mission           History           Leadership           DEA Museum           Wall of Honor             Office Locations           Domestic Divisions           Foreign Offices           Operational Divisions             Contact           Submit a Tip           Extortion Scam           Media Contacts           Congressional and Public Affairs           Domestic Division Contacts           Doing Business with DEA             Careers           Special Agents           Diversion Investigator           Forensic Sciences           Intelligence Research Specialists           Professional &amp; Administrative           Student &amp; Entry Level           Veterans and People with Disabilities               What We Do        Law Enforcement           El Paso Intelligence Center (EPIC)           Diversion Control Division           Forensic Sciences           Intelligence           Operations             Education and Prevention           DEA National Rx TakeBack Day           Red Ribbon Campaign           Community Outreach           DEA 360 Strategy           CampusDrugPrevention           GetSmartAboutDrugs           JustThinkTwice           OperationPrevention             News           Press Releases           Most Wanted Fugitives           Stories           Events           Speeches           Testimony           Social Media Directory             Drug Information           Drug Facts           Drug Scheduling           Drug Policy Information               Resources        Data &amp; Statistics           Drug Labs in the United States           Domestic Arrests           Meth Lab Incidents           FOIA/Privacy Act             Publications           Intelligence           Forensics           Education and Prevention           Micrograms             Media Galleries           Drug Photo Gallery           Education and Outreach Multimedia           Media Events           Public Service Announcements (PSA)            Menu       Search             Who We Are        About        Mission        History        Leadership        DEA Museum        Wall of Honor          Office Locations        Domestic Divisions        Foreign Offices        Operational Divisions          Contact        Submit a Tip        Extortion Scam        Media Contacts        Congressional and Public Affairs        Domestic Division Contacts        Doing Business with DEA          Careers        Special Agents        Diversion Investigator        Forensic Sciences        Intelligence Research Specialists        Professional &amp; Administrative        Student &amp; Entry Level        Veterans and People with Disabilities            What We Do        Law Enforcement        El Paso Intelligence Center (EPIC)        Diversion Control Division        Forensic Sciences        Intelligence        Operations          Education and Prevention        DEA National Rx TakeBack Day        Red Ribbon Campaign        Community Outreach        DEA 360 Strategy        CampusDrugPrevention        GetSmartAboutDrugs        JustThinkTwice        OperationPrevention          News        Press Releases        Most Wanted Fugitives        Stories        Events        Speeches        Testimony        Social Media Directory          Drug Information        Drug Facts        Drug Scheduling        Drug Policy Information            Resources        Data &amp; Statistics        Drug Labs in the United States        Domestic Arrests        Meth Lab Incidents        FOIA/Privacy Act          Publications        Intelligence        Forensics        Education and Prevention        Micrograms          Media Galleries        Drug Photo Gallery        Education and Outreach Multimedia        Media Events        Public Service Announcements (PSA)                                                                                    Search                                                   Breadcrumb   What We Do   Drug Information      Drug Scheduling                        Drug Scheduling         Drug Schedules Drugs, substances, and certain chemicals used to make drugs are classified into five (5) distinct categories or schedules depending upon the drug’s acceptable medical use and the drug’s abuse or dependency potential.
 The abuse rate is a determinate factor in the scheduling of the drug; for example, Schedule I drugs have a high potential for abuse and the potential to create severe psychological and/or physical dependence.
 As the drug schedule changes-- Schedule II, Schedule III, etc., so does the abuse potential-- Schedule V drugs represents the least potential for abuse.
 A Listing of drugs and their schedule are located at Controlled Substance Act (CSA) Scheduling or CSA Scheduling by Alphabetical Order.
 These lists describes the basic or parent chemical and do not necessarily describe the salts, isomers and salts of isomers, esters, ethers and derivatives which may also be classified as controlled substances.
 These lists are intended as general references and are not comprehensive listings of all controlled substances.
 Please note that a substance need not be listed as a controlled substance to be treated as a Schedule I substance for criminal prosecution.
 A controlled substance analogue is a substance which is intended for human consumption and is structurally or pharmacologically substantially similar to or is represented as being similar to a Schedule I or Schedule II substance and is not an approved medication in the United States.
 (See 21 U.S.C.
 §802(32)(A) for the definition of a controlled substance analogue and 21 U.S.C.
 §813 for the schedule.)
 Schedule I Schedule I drugs, substances, or chemicals are defined as drugs with no currently accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse.
 Some examples of Schedule I drugs are: heroin, lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), marijuana (cannabis), 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (ecstasy), methaqualone, and peyote Schedule II Schedule II drugs, substances, or chemicals are defined as drugs with a high potential for abuse, with use potentially leading to severe psychological or physical dependence.
 These drugs are also considered dangerous.
 Some examples of Schedule II drugs are: Combination products with less than 15 milligrams of hydrocodone per dosage unit (Vicodin), cocaine, methamphetamine, methadone, hydromorphone (Dilaudid), meperidine (Demerol), oxycodone (OxyContin), fentanyl, Dexedrine, Adderall, and Ritalin Schedule III Schedule III drugs, substances, or chemicals are defined as drugs with a moderate to low potential for physical and psychological dependence.
 Schedule III drugs abuse potential is less than Schedule I and Schedule II drugs but more than Schedule IV.
 Some examples of Schedule III drugs are: Products containing less than 90 milligrams of codeine per dosage unit (Tylenol with codeine), ketamine, anabolic steroids, testosterone Schedule IV Schedule IV drugs, substances, or chemicals are defined as drugs with a low potential for abuse and low risk of dependence.
 Some examples of Schedule IV drugs are: Xanax, Soma, Darvon, Darvocet, Valium, Ativan, Talwin, Ambien, Tramadol Schedule V Schedule V drugs, substances, or chemicals are defined as drugs with lower potential for abuse than Schedule IV and consist of preparations containing limited quantities of certain narcotics.
 Schedule V drugs are generally used for antidiarrheal, antitussive, and analgesic purposes.
