Toggle navigation
      MENU     2021 Theme GET INVOLVED RESOURCES  MISSIONS   Women Creatives Women and Technology Women and Sport Women at Work Women's Empowerment Women's Health   Partners Donate Login             About International Women's Day International Women's Day (IWD) is celebrated annually on March 8th.
 The day has occurred for well over a century, with the first IWD gathering in 1911.
 The day is not country, group or organization specific - and belongs to all groups collectively everywhere.
 Gloria Steinem, world-renowned feminist, journalist and activist 
   once explained 
   "The story of women's struggle for equality belongs to no single feminist nor to any one organization but to the collective 
   efforts of all who care about human rights."
 So make International Women's Day your day and do what you can to truly make a positive difference for women.
 What is International Women's Day?
 International Women's Day (March 8) is a global day celebrating the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women.
 The 
   day also marks a call to action for accelerating gender parity.
 No one government, NGO, charity, corporation, academic institution, women's network or media hub is solely responsible for International 
   Women's Day.
 Many organizations declare an annual IWD theme that supports their specific agenda or cause, and some of these are adopted 
   more widely with relevance than others.
 International Women's Day is a collective day of global celebration and a call for gender parity.
 International Women's Day is all about unity, celebration, reflection, advocacy and action - whatever that looks like globally at a local 
   level.
 But one thing is for sure, International Women's Day has been occurring for well over a century - and continue's to grow from 
   strength to strength.
 Learn about the values that guide IWD's ethos.
 What colours signify International Women's Day?
 Internationally, purple is a colour for symbolising women.
 Historically the combination of purple, green and white to 
   symbolise women's equality originated from the Women's Social and Political Union in the UK in 1908.
 Purple signifies 
   justice and dignity.
 Green symbolises hope.
 White represents purity, but is no longer used due to 'purity' being a 
   controversial concept.
 What's the history of IWD?
 International Women's Day (IWD) has been observed since the early 1900's - a time of great expansion and turbulence in the 
   industrialized world that saw booming population growth and the rise of radical ideologies.
 1908
 	 Great unrest and critical debate was occurring amongst women.
 Women's oppression and inequality was spurring women to 
   become more vocal and active in campaigning for change.
 Then in 1908, 15,000 women marched through New York City 
   demanding shorter hours, better pay and voting rights.
 1909
 	 In accordance with a declaration by the Socialist Party of America, the first National Woman's Day (NWD) was observed 
   across the United States on 28 February.
 Women continued to celebrate NWD on the last Sunday of February until 1913.
 1910
 	 In 1910 a second International Conference of Working Women was held in Copenhagen.
 A woman named Clara Zetkin (Leader of 
   the 'Women's Office' for the Social Democratic Party in Germany) tabled the idea of an International Women's Day.
 She 
   proposed that every year in every country there should be a celebration on the same day - a Women's Day - to press for 
   their demands.
 The conference of over 100 women from 17 countries, representing unions, socialist parties, working 
   women's clubs - and including the first three women elected to the Finnish parliament - greeted Zetkin's suggestion with 
   unanimous approval and thus International Women's Day was the result.
 1911
 	 Following the decision agreed at Copenhagen in 1911, International Women's Day was honoured the first time in Austria, Denmark, 
   Germany and Switzerland on 19 March.
 More than one million women and men attended IWD rallies campaigning for women's 
   rights to work, vote, be trained, to hold public office and end discrimination.
 However less than a week later on 25 March, 
   the tragic 'Triangle Fire' in New York City took the lives of more than 140 working women, most of them Italian and Jewish 
   immigrants.
 This disastrous event drew significant attention to working conditions and labour legislation in the United 
   States that became a focus of subsequent International Women's Day events.
 1911 also saw women's 
   Bread and Roses' campaign.
 1913-1914
 	 On the eve of World War I campaigning for peace, Russian women observed their first International Women's Day on the last Sunday 
   in February 1913.
 In 1913 following discussions, International Women's Day was transferred to 8 March and this day has 
   remained the global date for International Women's Day ever since.
 In 1914 further women across Europe held rallies to 
   campaign against the war and to express women's solidarity.
 For example, in London in the United Kingdom there was a march 
   from Bow to Trafalgar Square in support of women's suffrage on 8 March 1914.
 Sylvia Pankhurst was arrested in front of 
   Charing Cross station on her way to speak in Trafalgar Square.
 1917
 	 On the last Sunday of February, Russian women began a strike for "bread and peace" in response to the death of over 2 million Russian 
   soldiers in World War 1.
 Opposed by political leaders, the women continued to strike until four days later the Czar was forced to 
   abdicate and the provisional Government granted women the right to vote.
 The date the women's strike commenced was Sunday 23 
   February on the Julian calendar then in use in Russia.
 This day on the Gregorian calendar in use elsewhere was 8 March.
 1975
 	 International Women's Day was celebrated for the first time by the United Nations in 1975.
 Then in December 1977, the General 
   Assembly adopted a resolution proclaiming a United Nations Day for Women’s Rights and International Peace to be observed on 
   any day of the year by Member States, in accordance with their historical and national traditions.
 1996
   The UN commenced the adoption of an annual theme in 1996 - which was "Celebrating the past, Planning for the Future".
 This 
   theme was followed in 1997 with "Women at the Peace table", and in 1998 with "Women and Human Rights", and in 1999 with "World 
   Free of Violence Against Women", and so on each year until the current.
 More recent themes have included, for example, "Empower 
   Rural Women, End Poverty &amp; Hunger" and "A Promise is a Promise - Time for Action to End Violence Against Women".
 2000
   By the new millennium, there was little activity occurring for International Women's Day in most countries.
 The world had moved on and, in 
   many spheres, feminism wasn't a popular topic.
 Something was needed to re-ignite International Women's Day giving it the respect it 
   deserves and to raise awareness amongst the masses.
 There was urgent work to do - battles had not been won and gender parity still had not 
   been achieved.
 2001
   The internationalwomensday.com platform was launched with the specific purpose of re-energizing the day - a focus which continues to this 
   day - celebrating and making visible the achievements of women while continuing the call for accelerating gender parity.
 The website, 
   which provides useful guidance and resources, adopts an annual campaign theme that is globally relevant for groups and organizations.
 The 
   campaign theme, one of many around the world, provides a framework and direction for annual IWD activity and takes into account the wider 
   agenda of both celebration as well as the call to action for gender parity.
 Over more recent years, some of the campaign themes have included: 
   #EachforEqual, #BalanceforBetter, #PressforProgress, #BeBoldforChange, #PledgeforParity, #MakeItHappen, #TheGenderAgenda and more.
 Campaign themes for the 
   global IWD website are collaboratively developed each year with a range of stakeholders and widely adopted worldwide.
 IWD fundraising is 
   directed towards the website's Charity of Choice, the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts (WAGGGS) 
   since 2007 and Catalyst Inc., the global working women's organization, since 2016 - who receive 100% of any donations.
 2011
   2011 saw the 100 year centenary of International Women's Day - with the first IWD event held exactly 100 years ago in 1911 in 
   Austria, Denmark, Germany and Switzerland.
 In the United States, President Barack Obama proclaimed March 2011 to be "Women's 
   History Month", calling Americans to mark IWD by reflecting on "the extraordinary accomplishments of women" in shaping the 
   country's history.
 The then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton launched the "100 Women Initiative: Empowering Women and Girls 
   through International Exchanges".
 In the United Kingdom, celebrity activist Annie Lennox lead a superb march across one of 
   London's iconic bridges raising awareness in support for global charity Women for Women International.
 Further charities such 
   as Oxfam have run extensive activity supporting IWD and many celebrities and business leaders also actively support the day 2020 and beyond
   The world has witnessed a significant change and attitudinal shift in both women's and society's thoughts about women's equality 
   and emancipation.
 Many from a younger generation may feel that 'all the battles have been won for women' while many feminists 
   from the 1970's know only too well the longevity and ingrained complexity of patriarchy.
 With more women in the boardroom, 
   greater equality in legislative rights, and an increased critical mass of women's visibility as impressive role models in every 
   aspect of life, one could think that women have gained true equality.
 The unfortunate fact is that women are still not paid 
   equally to that of their male counterparts, women still are not present in equal numbers in business or politics, and globally 
   women's education, health and the violence against them is worse than that of men.
 However, great improvements have been made.
 We do have female astronauts and prime ministers, school girls are welcomed into university, women can work and have a family, 
   women have real choices.
 And so each year the world inspires women and celebrates their achievements.
 IWD is an official holiday in many countries including Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, 
   China (for women only), Cuba, Georgia, Guinea-Bissau, Eritrea, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Madagascar (for women only), 
   Moldova, Mongolia, Montenegro, Nepal (for women only), Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, 
   Vietnam and Zambia.
 The tradition sees men honouring their mothers, wives, girlfriends, colleagues, etc with flowers and 
   small gifts.
 In some countries IWD has the equivalent status of Mother's Day where children give small presents to their 
   mothers and grandmothers.
 A global web of rich and 
   diverse local activity connects women from all around the world ranging from political rallies, business conferences, 
   government activities and networking events through to local women's craft markets, theatric performances, fashion parades and 
   more.
 Many global corporations actively support IWD by running their own events and campaigns.
 For example, on 8 March search 
   engine and media giant Google often changes its 
   Google Doodle 
   on its global search pages to honor IWD.
 Year on year IWD is certainly increasing in status.
 So make a difference, think globally and act locally!
 Make everyday International Women's Day.
 Do your bit to ensure that the future for girls is bright, equal, safe and rewarding.
 Watch International Women's Day videos Watch some of the inspiring and thought-provoking International Women's Day videos available from around the world, or use them as great discussion starters and 
   resources.
 The 
        day also marks a call to action for accelerating women's equality.
 International Women's Day (IWD) has occurred for well over a century, with the first IWD gathering in 1911 supported by over a million people.
 Today, IWD belongs to all groups collectively everywhere.
 IWD is not country, group or organization specific.
