Home     Subscribe Manage Login Logout        News   Main Page   NewsWatch   Milwaukee   Waukesha   Ozaukee/Washington   Wisconsin   Politics   Election 2016   Education   Health   Crime   Religion   Obituaries   Death Notices   Traffic   Weather   Special Reports   Corrections   Got a tip?
 You can view today&apos;s paper or previous issues.
 Want full access?
 Subscribe
             News    News Sections  Main Page NewsWatch Milwaukee Waukesha Ozaukee/Washington Wisconsin Politics Election 2016 Education Health Crime Religion Obituaries Death Notices Traffic Weather Special Reports Corrections Got a tip?
 Photos Video        UW-led study finds infection with Zika prevents reinfection    More News Headlines   
            U.S. failed to protect Americans in Benghazi, House GOP report says
               
            Wisconsin’s appeal on abortion turned away by Supreme Court
               
            Wisconsin abortion limits likely to fall in wake of Texas ruling
               
            Tree climbing: Adults get in touch with childhood, nature
               
            Report sheds new light on problem of poverty in Wisconsin
                    Watchdog    Watchdog Sections  Main Page Dogged Blog Watchdog Reports Public Investigator No Quarter PolitiFact Data on Demand Citizen Watchdog   Photos Video     State Sen. Harris Dodd stands by aide with criminal past    More Watchdog Headlines    Daniel Bice:
            DA hopeful downplays erotic poetry book she published in 2014
               
            Federal gun prosecutions fall, even as Milwaukee crime rises
                Watchdog Update:
            Judge orders notorious Milwaukee landlord to pay up
                Watchdog Report:
            Corrections employee still a supervisor after misusing Taser
                Watchdog Update:
            FDA standards for approving cancer drugs lax, study says
                    Opinion    Opinion Sections  Main Page Editorial Board Blog Editorials Local Perspectives National Columnists Letters Crossroads Purple Wisconsin James E. Causey Christian Schneider   Photos Videos        GOP senators should do their job and vote on Garland    More Opinion Headlines    Ben Boychuk:
            Democrats go too far on guns
                Rolf Wegenke:
            Study on education rates does not reflect reality
               
            Assault weapons; palliative care; Elizabeth Warren
                Ernst-Ulrich Franzen:
            To Walker, Clinton and Clarke: Transparency matters to public
                Elizabeth Ward:
            The EPA needs to keep Wisconsin’s drinking water safe
                    Sports    Sports Sections  Main Page Preps Plus Scoreboard Outdoors Green Bay Packers Golf Milwaukee Brewers Auto Racing Milwaukee Bucks Milwaukee Admirals Wisconsin Badgers Milwaukee Wave / Soccer Marquette Golden Eagles Sports Blogs UWM Panthers TV/Radio listings State Colleges   Photos Videos        As attendance sags, Brewers see signs of summer boost    More Sports Headlines    
            Pat Summitt, most wins of any Division 1 basketball coach, dies at 64
               
            John Crockett to play role in backfield, special teams
                Prep baseball:
            West Bend West's win streak reaches 14
               
            Malcolm Brogdon will help revamp backup guard corps
               
            Get to Know: Brewers pitcher Zach Davies
                    Business    Business Sections  Main Page BusinessWatch Markets OnRamp Labs Real Estate Energy Harley Retail Investment Trends Executive Q&A; Workshift PRHub Top Workplaces Healthcare Reform Wisconsin 75   Photos Video        Chef aims high at new Kimpton hotel's restaurant    More Business Headlines   
            Adient moving forward with divestiture from Johnson Controls
                
            Ikea recalls 29 million dressers after 6 kids killed
               
            A Brexit silver lining?
 Mortgage rates back near the bottom again
               
            As Brexit tremors spread, U.S. investors lose $1.3 trillion
               
            Evinrude launches new, smaller E-TEC outboard engines
                    Entertainment    Entertainment Sections  Tap Milwaukee TV and Movies Dining Music Summerfest Arts Books Beer Events Comics Best Summer Ever Puzzles Horoscopes Lottery   Photos Videos        35 must-see Summerfest acts    More Entertainment Headlines   
            'Bachelorette' recap: Jordan Rodgers called 'entitled'
               
            Ray Jivoff, Norman Moses to star in Skylight's 'La Cage Aux Folles'
               
            At its best, 'An Ideal Husband" serves smorgasbord of Wildean wit
               
            Which emerging country acts you should catch at Summerfest
               
            2016 Milwaukee Film Festival unveils first 8 movies
                    Lifestyle    Lifestyle Sections  Fresh Recipes Food and Cooking Drinks Home Decor Garden Fashion and Style Parties Travel Advice Wisconsin Trails Best Summer Ever Metroparent Sponsored Content   Photos Video        Dress your summer salads with simple, homemade dressings    More Lifestyle Headlines   
            20-minute summer recipes that fit anyone's schedule
               
            Explore roads less traveled in Wisconsin
                Direct Answers:
            Learn all the facts before forgiving boyfriend
                All Over the Map:
            Events in and around Wisconsin
               
            Home and garden events
                    Green Sheet    Green Sheet Sections  Main Page Comics Advice Puzzles Horoscopes        Fourth of July fireworks, parades in the Milwaukee area 2016    More Green Sheet Headlines   
            Test your knowledge of this week's news
               
            Visit to Bosnia sparks nurse's mission of a lifetime
               
            Rockwell Automation ranked as a top green company in U.S.
 Dozens of protesters sang protest songs in the rotunda and, as they have every weekday for more than two years now, held signs with slogans such as "Wisconsin Bought and Paid For" and "I am Woman Hear Me Roar."
 But a federal judge's ruling last week is raising questions about the future of the protests against Gov.
 Scott Walker that began during the labor demonstrations at the Capitol in the spring of 2011.
 Last week, U.S. District Judge William Conley in Madison struck down two parts of the Walker administration's restrictions on demonstrations, giving a moral victory to the protesters.
 But Conley left much of the remaining rules in place, including those requiring permits for larger events.
 In a 47-page opinion, Conley blocked the administration from requiring a permit for "events" in the statehouse rotunda of 20 people or fewer but left the permit requirement in place for indoor events as large as Tuesday's sing-along.
 Using a bullhorn, police attempted to remind protesters that their unpermitted protest was larger than the 20 person limit.
 With their voices barely heard among the singing and noise, the police told demonstrators they faced arrest and citation if they didn't disperse or move their event onto the Capitol Square outside.
 The demonstrators ignored police, singing labor standards such as "Solidarity Forever."
 Department of Administration spokeswoman Stephanie Marquis had no immediate comment.
 Protester Bart Munger said that in spite of Conley's decision he believed he had the right to protest the government in the Capitol.
 "I understand the process (Conley) went through but I don't agree with it because it's a unique situation," Munger said of the statehouse, saying it should receive more consideration as a place of dissent.
 In his opinion, Conley adcknowledged the statehouse played a central role in the geography of Madison and its civic life that allowed for "a certain level of disturbance that would not be proper in a typical state office building or even a typical state capitol."
 But he also said that state officials could set reasonable limits and regulation on larger events.
 The Walker administration's rules had allowed for no more than three protesters without a permit inside the Capitol.
 The Capitol rules lawsuit decided by Conley had been brought by protester Michael Kissick of Madison and the American Civil Liberties Union of Wisconsin.
 About Jason Stein Jason Stein covers the state Capitol and is the author with his colleague Patrick Marley of "More than They Bargained For: Scott Walker, Unions and the Fight for Wisconsin."
 His work has been recognized by journalism groups such as the American Society of News Editors, the Society of American Business Editors and Writers, and the Association of Capitol Reporters and Editors.
