To learn more or opt-out, read our Cookie Policy.
 Please also read our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use, which became effective December 20, 2019.
 By choosing I Accept, you consent to our use of cookies and other tracking technologies.
 You can help by supporting Vox's explanatory journalism with a financial contribution today.
 ×             Don't believe Donald Trump has incited violence at rallies?
 Watch this video.
 Watch this video.
 Reddit        Pocket          Flipboard      Email                On Friday night in Chicago, violence broke out between supporters and protesters at a Donald Trump rally, leading Trump to cancel the event.
 On Saturday, Trump blamed the protesters and "thugs" — a racially coded word — for the violence.
 But maybe Trump should blame himself.
 As Rachel Maddow demonstrated in a string of clips aired on MSNBC, Trump has consistently called for violence against protesters at his rallies.
 Here are Trump's previous comments in response to demonstrators at his events, taken from Maddow's video (starting at 3:40):  February 1 in Iowa: "If you see somebody getting ready to throw a tomato, knock the crap out of them, would you?
 Seriously.
 Okay?
 Just knock the hell.
 I promise you I will pay for the legal fees.
 I promise."
 February 22 in Nevada: "I love the old days.
 You know what they used to do to guys like that when they were in a place like this?
 They'd be carried out on a stretcher, folks.
 It's true.
 … I'd like to punch him in the face, I'll tell you."
 February 26 in Oklahoma: "In the good old days, they'd rip him out of that seat so fast.
 But today, everybody's politically correct.
 Our country's going to hell with being politically correct."
 February 29 in Virginia: "Get him out of here please.
 Get him out.
 Get him out.
 … Are you from Mexico?
 Are you from Mexico?
 Huh?
 Are you from Mexico?"
 March 4 in Michigan: "Get out of here.
 Get out.
 Out!
 … This is amazing.
 So much fun.
 I love it.
 I love it.
 We having a good time?
 USA, USA, USA!
 … All right, get him out.
 Try not to hurt him.
 If you do, I'll defend you in court.
 Don't worry about it.
 … We had four guys, they jumped on him, they were swinging and swinging.
 The next day, we got killed in the press — that we were too rough.
 Give me a break.
 You know?
 Right?
 We don't want to be too politically correct anymore.
 Right, folks?"
 March 4 in Michigan: "Remember when Bernie Sanders, they took the mic away from him?
 That's not going to happen with us, folks.
 That's not going to happen.
 Remember that?
 He walked away from the mic and he stood back and he watched these two young girls talking to the audience.
 And they said, 'We came to listen to him!'
 And he was standing in the back as two women took the mic away.
 No, that doesn't happen to us.
 Get that guy out of here!
 Get him out!
 Get that guy out of here!"
 March 9 in North Carolina: "We had some people, some rough guys like we have right in here.
 And they started punching back.
 It was a beautiful thing.
 I mean, they started punching back.
 … In the good old days, this doesn't happen because they used to treat them very, very rough.
 And when they protested once, you know, they would not do it again so easily.
 But today, they walk in and they put their hand up and put the wrong finger in the air at everybody, and they get away with murder, because we've become weak."
 March 11 in Missouri, hours before the Chicago rally: "Part of the problem and part of the reason it takes so long is nobody wants to hurt each other anymore.
 Right?
 And they're being politically correct the way they take them out.
 So it takes a little bit longer.
 And honestly, protesters, they realize it — they realize that there are no consequences to protesting anymore.
 There used to be consequences.
 There are none anymore."
 Trump's message in all these incidents is clear: Supporters should rough up protesters.
 Friday night's chaos seems like a natural reflection of that.
 Watch: Donald Trump's rise is a scary moment in America      Will you help keep Vox free for all?
 Millions of people rely on Vox to understand how the policy decisions made in Washington, from health care to unemployment to housing, could impact their lives.
 Our work is well-sourced, research-driven, and in-depth.
 And that kind of work takes resources.
 Even after the economy recovers, advertising alone will never be enough to support it.
 If you have already made a contribution to Vox, thank you.
 If you haven’t, help us keep our journalism free for everyone by making a financial contribution today, from as little as $3.
 Next Up In     Politics &amp; Policy    How Joe Biden plans to use executive powers to fight climate change    2020 House election live results   House Democrats will keep their majority for two more years   GOP lawmakers are refusing to acknowledge the reality that Biden won the election   Joe Biden has won.
 Here’s what comes next.
 Biden plans on swiftly rolling back Trump policies with a set of executive orders               Most Read                                       The Trump legal team’s failed Four Seasons press conference, explained The bizarre venue overshadowed Rudy Giuliani’s conspiracy-theory-laden election rant, providing a poetic stage for the end of Trump’s presidency.
 Trump is attempting a coup in plain sight How do we cover it when it’s happening here?
 Dave Chappelle’s SNL monologue was shrewd and political — but more chill than expected Chappelle’s SNL monologue included a KKK joke, an AIDS quip, and a lit cigarette.
 vox-mark           Sign up for the       newsletter         Future Perfect   Get our newsletter in your inbox twice a week.
 Email (required)         By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy.
 For more newsletters, check out our newsletters page.
 Subscribe                The Latest           Why so many people have started journaling during the pandemic          By    Mithila Phadke                   GOP lawmakers are refusing to acknowledge the reality that Biden won the election          By    Katelyn Burns                   Alex Trebek’s last episode of Jeopardy will air on Christmas Day          By    Jen Trolio and Allegra Frank                   Jeopardy host Alex Trebek has died after 36 years of hosting the show          By    Libby Nelson                   Biden plans on swiftly rolling back Trump policies with a set of executive orders          By    Katelyn Burns                   The Trump legal team’s failed Four Seasons press conference, explained          By    Katelyn Burns                      Chorus     Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status   Contact Send Us a Tip Masthead About Us Editorial Ethics and Guidelines    Vox MediaVox Media Vox Media logo.
 Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media      © 2020 Vox Media, LLC.
