Menu     Close             Home   COVID-19   Arts + Culture   Business + Economy   Cities   Education   Environment + Energy   Health + Medicine   Politics + Society   Science + Technology     Edition        Africa          Australia          Canada          Canada (français)          España          France          Global Perspectives          Indonesia          New Zealand          United Kingdom          United States                      Edition:    Available editions   United Kingdom      Africa   Australia   Canada   Canada (français)   España   France   Global Perspectives   Indonesia   New Zealand   United States       Donate      Get newsletter         Become an author   Sign up as a reader   Sign in                Search            Academic rigour, journalistic flair       COVID-19   Arts + Culture   Business + Economy   Cities   Education   Environment + Energy   Health + Medicine   Politics + Society   Science + Technology                  How the power of suggestion generates wind farm symptoms        March 15, 2013 3.32am GMT           Fiona Crichton    Author        Fiona Crichton        PhD candidate in psychological medicine, University of Auckland        Disclosure statement Fiona Crichton does not work for, consult, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has disclosed no relevant affiliations beyond their academic appointment.
 Partners The Conversation UK receives funding from these organisations View the full list          Exposure to infrasound, at the level produced by wind turbines, is an ordinary occurrence.
 Flickr/Wavy1        Email    Twitter    Facebook    LinkedIn    WhatsApp    Messenger      A surge in health complaints linked to wind farms could owe more to increased discussion of health risk than the low-level sound generated by the actual turbines, according to a new study.
 The study by University of Sydney’s Professor Simon Chapman shows health complaints in Australia were rare until reports emerged about the purported health risks of living close to wind farms.
 Increased numbers of people reporting symptoms linked to turbines could be explained by public warnings about health effects triggering the complaints; a phenomenon known as the nocebo effect.
 This occurs because such information can create health concerns and related symptom expectations, priming people to notice and negatively interpret common physical sensations and symptoms.
 In an experimental study published this week in Health Psychology, our experimental team tested the potential for information about the alleged health risks presented by wind farms to trigger symptoms reports.
 Much of the conjecture about the health effects presented by wind turbines relates to the generation of sub-audible sound (infrasound), which is said to cause physical symptoms such as headache, nausea, fatigue and ear pressure.
 However, exposure to infrasound, at the level produced by wind turbines, is an ordinary occurrence.
 Infrasound is consistently present in the environment caused by natural phenomena, such as air turbulence and ocean waves; by machinery, such as air conditioners; and is produced within the body, by processes such as respiration.
 In this study, we exposed 60 participants to ten minutes of infrasound and ten minutes of sham infrasound (silence), within a listening room designed for subjective listening experiments.
 Prior to the listening sessions, half of the participants (high expectancy participants) watched a DVD presentation which contained television footage, available on the internet, in which people living in the vicinity of wind farms recounted their experience of symptoms that they believed to be caused by wind farms.
 Discussion within the community about the alleged health effects of wind farms may trigger the symptoms about which residents are concerned.
 Steve Abraham   The remaining participants (low expectancy participants) viewed a DVD in which experts put forth the scientific position that exposure to infrasound generated by wind turbines would not cause symptoms.
 Before and during each ten-minute exposure session participants rated their experience of 24 physical symptoms, such as dizziness, ear pressure, and headache.
 Results showed there were no symptomatic changes before or during exposure periods in the low expectancy group.
 However, participants in the high expectancy group reported significant increases from pre-exposure assessment in the number and intensity of symptoms reported during exposure periods.
 This increase was the same whether exposure was to infrasound or to sham infrasound, indicating that exposure to infrasound did not add to the symptomatic experience.
 Further, during both exposure periods, high expectancy participants reported more symptoms they had been told were typical of infrasound exposure, rather than symptoms they were informed were atypical.
 The findings indicate that negative health information readily available to people living in the vicinity of wind farms has the potential to create symptom expectations, providing a possible pathway for symptoms attributed to operating wind turbines.
 This may have wide-reaching implications.
 If symptom expectations are the root cause of symptom reporting, answering calls to increase minimum wind-farm set back distances is likely to do little to assuage health complaints.
 Ironically, discussion within the community about the alleged health effects of wind-farms may trigger the very symptoms about which residents are concerned.
 If this is the case, media coverage of the wind-farm debate must be balanced, so that undue emphasis is not placed on purported health risk.
 A recent study has shown that media reporting about health effects and wind farms in Ontario, Canada contain factors likely to induce fear, anxiety and concern.
 Thus the media must take particular care that they are not creating and perpetuating health complaints attributed to wind farms.
