Brad Biggs’ 10 thoughts on the Chicago Bears’ Week 9 loss to the Tennessee Titans.
 What’s a runoff, and why are there two?
 Here’s why Georgia matters when it comes to control of the Senate     Column: How exactly did the Chicago Bears bumble their way to a 3rd consecutive loss?
 You don’t want to know.
 Hundreds of Illinois schools potentially exposed to COVID-19 in last month, new contact tracing data shows     Column: A Trump concession speech: ‘I hereby concede that I beat Sleepy Joe Biden’     Trump vs. Biden: Inside Chicago’s politically split 41st Ward — ‘I don’t talk about it, you know?’    Flood threat remains for South Florida as Tropical Storm Eta begins its move west     Column: The Chicago Bears’ frustration is mounting and explanations are sketchy as the lights threaten to go out on the 2020 season     Second stimulus check updates: Dueling coronavirus relief bill visions cloud lame-duck outlook    Naperville-area woman shot boyfriend, then video-chatted another woman he had been dating, prosecutors allege     Biden could roll back Trump agenda with blitz of executive actions     What’s next for Trump?
 Family business awaits his return.
 hddn-mble hddn-tbl":"";    Medline Industries in Waukegan on Sept. 28, 2018.
 (Zbigniew Bzdak / Chicago Tribune)    People living near Medline Industries in north suburban Waukegan had higher levels of the cancer-causing chemical ethylene oxide in their bloodstream than others who live farther away, according to test results from a federally funded study.
 Susan Buchanan, a University of Illinois at Chicago researcher who oversaw the testing, said the results provide more evidence that chemical plants and sterilization facilities emitting ethylene oxide are endangering nearby communities.
 Buchanan released a summary of her study on Tuesday, a month after an Illinois Senate committee rejected legislation that would have forced Medline to move away from densely populated neighborhoods.
 The bill also would have ordered Vantage Specialty Chemicals in Gurnee to dramatically reduce its emissions.
 “These figures should be seen as a powerful call to action for community members and policymakers to hold companies accountable,” said Buchanan, director of the Great Lakes Center for Children’s Environmental Health at the UIC School of Public Health.
 “Facilities emitting dangerous chemicals like ethylene oxide should not be located near homes, schools, businesses, parks or other areas frequently used by the public."
 Buchanan described the blood sampling as a pilot project intended to help direct more rigorous study.
 Participants responded to flyers and social media posts, rather than being selected randomly, and the results haven’t been peer-reviewed.
 Most of the ethylene oxide produced in the U.S. is used to synthesize ethylene glycol, a raw material in antifreeze, polyester and plastics.
 Medline and other companies use ethylene oxide, also known as EtO, to sterilize medical products.
 In 2016, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency formally concluded ethylene oxide is far more dangerous than previously thought.
 The chemical’s potent ability to mutate DNA can trigger breast cancer, leukemia and lymphomas, EPA scientists found after a rigorous evaluation.
 The blood sampling in Lake County is the latest response to a 2018 EPA report that identified communities throughout the nation facing alarmingly high cancer risks from toxic air pollution.
 Ethylene oxide is the chemical responsible for elevated risks in four predominantly Latino and African American census tracts surrounding Medline’s assembly plant off Skokie Highway and Pulaski Drive in southwest Waukegan, according to the report.
 In one of the Lake County tracts, the EPA found, the cancer risk is five times higher than the national average.
 Several of the 93 participants in the UIC study live in a neighborhood about a half-mile away from Medline.
 The mean concentration of ethylene oxide in their blood was about 1.5 times higher than other participants who live farther away from the company’s facility, according to Buchanan’s summary of the test results, which were analyzed by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 There was no statistically significant difference in the comparison between participants who live close to Vantage, about 3 miles northwest of Medline, and those who live farther away.
 In a statement, Medline focused on the preliminary nature of the findings.
 “Since the raw data, methodology or official summary from the UIC researchers has not been released, we are left with a lot of questions about what conclusions, if any, can be drawn from this limited sampling,” Jesse Greenberg, a Medline spokesman, said in the statement.
 “Medline regularly administers blood tests for Waukegan employees and has never found evidence of elevated EtO levels in 25 years," Greenberg said.
 The company is overhauling its assembly plant to comply with a new state permit that requires Medline to limit ethylene oxide emissions to 150 pounds, down from 3,058 pounds it reported in 2014.
 Greenberg called the company’s new pollution controls the “most advanced safety equipment in the world.”  But community activists say any additional exposure to ethylene oxide increases their cumulative risk of developing cancer.
 They are pushing Gov.
 J.B. Pritzker to crack down on Medline with the same legal authority he invoked to temporarily shut down Sterigenics, another sterilization facility in west suburban Willowbrook that closed permanently in September after its owners cited an unstable regulatory landscape and a failure to broker a new deal on its lease.
 Latest Environment  General Iron scrap shredder pays $18,000 fine for explosion, noxious air pollution on the North Side  Nov 2, 2020    Illinois launches statewide plan to boost monarch butterfly population: ‘If enough people get on board, we can turn this thing around’  Oct 23, 2020    Chronic polluter General Iron is moving from its wealthy, white North Side home to a low-income Latino neighborhood.
 The feds want to know why.
 Oct 20, 2020    Native American tribes make new move to shut down flow of oil in Dakota Access Pipeline  Oct 20, 2020    Gov.
 J.B. Pritzker vows to fight climate change with clean energy.
 Only three other states mined more climate-changing coal than Illinois last year.
 Oct 2, 2020     “If this (UIC/CDC) study doesn’t do it, I’m not sure how else to convey to legislators and Gov.
 Pritzker that their inaction is harming us for corporate profits," said Tea Tanaka, co-founder of the group Stop EtO in Lake County.
 Tanaka, who lives 4 miles away from Medline and Vantage and works about 2 miles south of Medline, was among the volunteers for the blood sampling study.
 She said the concentration of an ethylene oxide marker in her blood was among the highest of the study participants.
 Researchers found average levels in her husband, who works from home, Tanaka said.
 “My results have me worried sick,” she said.
 The feds want to know why.
 hddn-mble hddn-tbl":"";         Most Read on Chicago Tribune   Chicago Bears  Time for a change?
 Brad Biggs’ 10 thoughts on the Chicago Bears’ Week 9 loss to the Tennessee Titans.
 46m     Election 2020  What’s a runoff, and why are there two?
 Here’s why Georgia matters when it comes to control of the Senate  Nov 7, 2020     Chicago Bears  Column: How exactly did the Chicago Bears bumble their way to a 3rd consecutive loss?
 You don’t want to know.
