Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                  Vaccine Safety             Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                            Thimerosal and Vaccines     Minus     Related Pages     Questions and ConcernsThimerosal is a mercury-based preservative that has been used for decades in the United States in multi-dose vials (vials containing more than one dose) of medicines and vaccines.
 There is no evidence of harm caused by the low doses of thimerosal in vaccines, except for minor reactions like redness and swelling at the injection site.
 However, in July 1999, the Public Health Service agencies, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and vaccine manufacturers agreed that thimerosal should be reduced or eliminated in vaccines as a precautionary measure.
 About Thimerosal Mercury is a naturally occurring element found in the earth’s crust, air, soil, and water.
 Two types of mercury to which people may be exposed — methylmercury and ethylmercury — are very different.
 Methylmercury is the type of mercury found in certain kinds of fish.
 At high exposure levels methylmercury can be toxic to people.
 In the United States, federal guidelines keep as much methylmercury as possible out of the environment and food, but over a lifetime, everyone is exposed to some methylmercury.
 Thimerosal contains ethylmercury, which is cleared from the human body more quickly than methylmercury, and is therefore less likely to cause any harm.
 Thimerosal prevents the growth of bacteria in vaccines.
 Thimerosal is added to vials of vaccine that contain more than one dose (multi-dose vials) to prevent growth of germs, like bacteria and fungi.
 Introduction of bacteria and fungi has the potential to occur when a syringe needle enters a vial as a vaccine is being prepared for administration.
 Contamination by germs in a vaccine could cause severe local reactions, serious illness or death.
 In some vaccines, preservatives, including thimerosal, are added during the manufacturing process to prevent germ growth.
 The human body eliminates thimerosal easily.
 Thimerosal does not stay in the body a long time so it does not build up and reach harmful levels.
 When thimerosal enters the body, it breaks down to ethylmercury and thiosalicylate, which are readily eliminated.
 Thimerosal has been shown to be safe when used in vaccines.
 Thimerosal use in medical products has a record of being very safe.
 Data from many studies show no evidence of harm caused by the low doses of thimerosal in vaccines.
 There are some side effects of thimerosal in vaccines.
 The most common side-effects are minor reactions like redness and swelling at the injection site.
 Although rare, some people may be allergic to thimerosal.
 Scientific research does not show a connection between thimerosal and autism.
 Research does not show any link between thimerosal in vaccines and autism, a neurodevelopmental disorder.
 Many well conducted studies have concluded that thimerosal in vaccines does not contribute to the development of autism.
 Even after thimerosal was removed from almost all childhood vaccines, autism rates continued to increase, which is the opposite of what would be expected if thimerosal caused autism.
 Thimerosal was taken out of childhood vaccines in the United States in 2001.
 Measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccines do not and never did contain thimerosal.
 Varicella (chickenpox), inactivated polio (IPV), and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines have also never contained thimerosal.
 Influenza (flu) vaccines are currently available in both thimerosal-containing (for multi-dose vaccine vials) and thimerosal-free versions.
 For a complete list of vaccines and their thimerosal content level, see the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Thimerosal in Vaccinesexternal icon page.
 This chart pdf icon[PDF – 4 pages] shows vaccine ingredients sorted by vaccine.
 pdf icon        Featured Resource: Understanding Thimerosal, Mercury, and Vaccine Safety pdf icon[PDF – 300 KB]  Top of Page Related LinksFrequently Asked Questions about ThimerosalIngredients of Vaccines – Fact SheetVaccine IngredientsCDC Studies on Vaccines and Autismpdf icon[357 KB]Thimerosal: What You Should Know (Spanish) pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]external icon Top of Page          
 					Page last reviewed: August 25, 2020 Content source: 	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion (DHQP)         homeVaccine Safety  Safety Information by Vaccineplus icon  Chickenpox (Varicella) Vaccines Diphtheria, Tetanus, and Pertussis Vaccines Haemophilus influenza Type b (Hib) Vaccines Hepatitis A Vaccines Hepatitis B Vaccines Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccineplus icon  Questions about HPV Vaccine Safety   Influenza (Flu) Vaccines Measles, Mumps, Rubella (MMR) Vaccinesplus icon  MMR Safety Studies   Measles, Mumps, Rubella, Varicella (MMRV) Vaccinesplus icon  VSD MMRV Safety Study MMRV Safety Studies MMRV and Febrile Seizures   Meningococcal Vaccines Pneumococcal Vaccines Rotavirus Vaccine Shingles (Herpes Zoster) Vaccines Smallpox Vaccine   Questions and Concernsplus icon  Adjuvants Autismplus icon  CDC Statement: 2004 Pediatrics Paper on MMR and Autism   Fainting after Vaccination Febrile Seizures Guillain-Barre Syndrome Multiple Vaccinations at Once Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) Thimerosalplus icon  CDC Study (2010 ) on Thimerosal and Risk of Autism Thimerosal FAQs Related Scientific Articles Infant and Environmental Exposures to Thimerosal 2007 Study Timeline: Thimerosal in Vaccines   Vaccines During Pregnancy FAQs FAQs about Vaccine Recalls Historical Vaccine Safety Concernsplus icon  GBS and Menactra Vaccine FAQs Gardasil Vaccine Recall (2013) FAQs Hep B and Multiple Sclerosis FAQs Hib Vaccine Recall (2007) Summary Narcolepsy Following Pandemrix Influenza Vaccination in Europe     Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon  Talking to Patients About Vaccine Safety Reporting Adverse Events Resources for Healthcare Providers   Information for Parents and Caregiversplus icon  Vaccine Safety FAQs   Researchplus icon  Publications Institute of Medicine (IOM) Reports ISO Scientific Agenda   Ensuring Safetyplus icon  Overview, History, and How It Works Side Effects and Adverse Events Vaccine Safety Monitoringplus icon  Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS)plus icon  How to Access Data from CDC’s VAERS WONDER System Print and Web Material VAERS Publications   CISAplus icon  CISA Resources for Healthcare Professionals Evaluation Clinical Research Studies Historical Background 2001-12 Publications Technical Reports   Vaccine Safety Datalink (VSD)plus icon  Accessing Data from Vaccine Safety Datalink Data Sharing Guidelines Vaccine Safety Datalink Publications   Emergency Preparedness   Vaccine Safety Partners   About ISO     Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:  Email Address  What's this?
 Submit                HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
