Skip to content                 Menu       Close      Call 1-800-CEDARS-1      toggle search form   Close        Search by Keyword, Symptom, or Condition        Search         Find a Doctor   Locations Locations    Close Browse Our Locations       	    	Primary Care         	    	Urgent Care Facilities         	    	Emergency Rooms         	    	Surgery Centers         	    	Medical Offices         	    	Imaging Facilities         	    	Labs        Cedars-Sinai Medical Center       Cedars-Sinai Marina del Rey Hospital     Browse Our Locations      Programs &amp; Services Programs &amp; Services    Close Browse All Programs &amp; Services       	    	Cancer         	    	Diabetes &amp; Endocrinology         	    	Digestive &amp; Liver Diseases         	    	Ear, Nose &amp; Throat         	    	Gynecology                 Heart               Imaging (CT Scan, MRI)               Lung               Neurology &amp; Neurosurgery               Obstetrics/Maternity                 Orthopaedics               Pain Center               Pediatric Specialty Care               Primary Care (Adults and Pediatrics)               Spine                 Surgery               Transplant               Urgent Care               Urology               Women's Health       Browse All Programs &amp; Services      Health Library Health Library    Close Browse the Health Library    Conditions &amp; Treatments            	Arthritis             	Back Injuries             	Bone Spurs             	Bronchitis             	Cerebrospinal Fluid Leak             	Depression               	Excessive Sweating             	Endometriosis             	Gallstones and Gallbladder Disease             	Heart Attack             	High Blood Pressure             	Hip Fracture                  Health Resources                   Health Calculators               Prevention Guidelines               Risk Assessments               Video Library          Symptom Checker      Browse the Health Library      Patients &amp; Visitors Patients &amp; Visitors    Close Browse Patients and Visitors       	    	COVID-19 (coronavirus)         	    	Visiting a Patient         	    	Frequently Asked Questions         	    	Gift Shop         	    	Billing and Insurance         	    	Pay Your Bill         	    	Medical Records Request        Medical Campus Map &amp; Parking       Resources for Patients     Browse Patients and Visitors         Academics   Community   My CS-Link           1-800-CEDARS-1                         COVID-19 (Coronavirus)              Information for Patients &amp; Visitors                       Cedars-Sinai   Health Library      Acute Bacterial Rhinosinusitis         Share       Email      Print                    Conditions &amp; Treatments        Symptom Checker        Video Library        Prevention Guidelines        Health Calculators        Risk Assessments              Acute Bacterial Rhinosinusitis  Not what you're looking for?
 Start New Search         ABOUT CAUSES DIAGNOSIS TREATMENT NEXT STEPS       What is acute bacterial rhinosinusitis?
 Acute bacterial rhinosinusitis     (ABRS) is an infection of both your nasal cavity and sinuses.
 It is caused by bacteria.
 The nasal cavity is the large air-filled space behind your nose.
 The sinuses are a     group     of spaces formed by the bones of your face.
 They connect with your nasal cavity.
 ABRS     causes the tissue lining these spaces to become inflamed.
 Mucus may not drain normally.
 This leads to face pain and other common symptoms.
 It’s more common for rhinosinusitis     to be caused by a virus.
 But ABRS is caused by bacteria.
 An acute infection means     that     you’ve had symptoms for less than 4 weeks.
 ABRS isn’t as common as acute viral     rhinosinusitis.
 Women get it more often than men.
 Middle-aged and older adults also     get     it more often.
 What causes acute bacterial rhinosinusitis?
 ABRS is caused by bacteria that     infect the lining of your nasal cavity and sinuses.
 It’s most often caused by the     bacteria Streptococcus pneumonia.
 Or it may be caused by the bacteria Haemophilus     influenzae.
 This can happen when the lining is already inflamed.
 This is often caused     by     a virus.
 The bacterial infection comes later.
 It often starts in the nasal cavity     and     spreads into your sinuses.
 Other factors can cause     inflammation and make a bacterial infection more likely, such as:      Allergies Blockage in the nose Swimming Tooth infection  Cocaine use in the nose    What are the symptoms of acute bacterial rhinosinusitis?
 The symptoms of ABRS can look like     other health conditions.
 Symptoms may be different for each person.
 The symptoms may     include:      Face pain or pressure that’s worse      when leaning forward      Postnasal drip Nasal congestion Pain in your upper jaw Toothache in your upper jaw Yellow or greenish discharge from your      nose      Fever Cough Ear pressure or fullness Headache Decreased smell  Most people don’t have all of these     symptoms.
 With an acute infection, these symptoms have lasted less than 4 weeks.
 How is acute bacterial rhinosinusitis diagnosed?
 Your healthcare provider will ask     about your health history.
 He or she will ask about your symptoms and how long you’ve     had them.
 You may have a physical exam.
 This is to look for signs of a respiratory     infection.
 It’s hard to tell the difference     between viral and bacterial rhinosinusitis.
 Both have similar symptoms.
 You may be     more     likely to have ABRS if you’ve had:      Symptoms for more than 10 days with no      improvement      A fever of 100.4°F (38.0°C) or      higher      Yellow or greenish nasal      discharge      Pain in the areas around your      nose      Symptoms that suddenly get much worse      after they seemed to be getting better       In most cases, your provider will     not need to do more tests.
 They are often not needed, unless you have signs of     complications.
 You might also need testing if you’ve had several episodes of ABRS.
 These     tests might include:       Endoscopy of the nasal cavity and sinuses, with and       without a culture.
 This is done to identify the particular bacteria.
 And to      be sure that there are no blockages, such as a foreign body, polyps, or a tumor.
 CT scan.
 This provides more information about your      nasal cavity, sinuses, and related structures.
 How is acute bacterial rhinosinusitis treated?
 Treatment will depend on your symptoms, age, and general health.
 It     will also depend on how severe the condition is.
 Treatments for ABRS can     include:      Antibiotics to kill the infecting      bacteria      Pain medicines Rinsing the nasal passages with saline      to make them feel better       Researchers don’t know if some of     these treatments work for ABRS.
 Your healthcare provider may not     give you antibiotics at first.
 It is hard to tell if you have a bacterial infection.
 So     other treatments may be recommended.
 Antibiotics don’t help rhinosinusitis that is     caused by a virus.
 Healthcare providers don’t like to give antibiotics if they’re     not     needed.
 Many people get better without antibiotics.
 If your symptoms don’t get better     in several days, you might need antibiotics.
 If your healthcare provider finds that     you     have a bacterial infection at your first visit, you might get antibiotics right     away.
 What are possible complications of acute bacterial    rhinosinusitis?
 In rare cases, ABRS may cause     complications such as:       Infection of the tissue around the      brain and spinal cord (meningitis)      Infection of the tissue around the eye      (orbital cellulitis)       Infection of the sinus bones      (osteitis)       Your healthcare provider will keep     track of your symptoms to make sure you don’t have these complications.
 If you do,     you     might need antibiotics given through an IV (intravenous) line.
 In very rare cases,     you     might need surgery as well.
 When should I call my healthcare provider?
 Call your healthcare provider if     your symptoms don't get better after several days of treatment.
 Also call right away     if     you have any symptoms of possible complications such as:      Swelling around your eyes   Call       911  if you have:      Abnormal vision Confusion or loss of alertness    Key points about acute bacterial rhinosinusitis  Acute bacterial rhinosinusitis (ABRS)      is an infection of both your nasal cavity and sinuses.
 It is caused by bacteria.
 ABRS sets in when your nasal cavity      and sinuses first become inflamed from another cause, often a viral infection.
 You might have symptoms such as face      pain and fever.
 You might have yellow or greenish      discharge from your nose.
 Your healthcare provider might or      might not use an antibiotic to help treat you.
 Other treatments may help make you      feel better.
 ABRS rarely causes serious      complications.
 Next steps Tips to help you get the most from     a visit to your healthcare provider:      Know the reason for your visit and      what you want to happen.
 Before your visit, write down      questions you want answered.
 Bring someone with you to help you ask      questions and remember what your provider tells you.
 At the visit, write down the name of a      new diagnosis, and any new medicines, treatments, or tests.
 Also write down any new      instructions your provider gives you.
 Know why a new medicine or treatment      is prescribed, and how it will help you.
 Also know what the side effects are.
 Ask if your condition can be treated      in other ways.
 Know why a test or procedure is      recommended and what the results could mean.
 Know what to expect if you do not take      the medicine or have the test or procedure.
 If you have a follow-up appointment,      write down the date, time, and purpose for that visit.
 Know how you can contact your provider      if you have questions.
 Not what you're looking for?
 Start New Search                             default             Want More Information?
 Cedars-Sinai has a range of comprehensive treatment options.
 See Our Programs                               Looking for a Physician?
 Choose a doctor and schedule an appointment.
 Find a Doctor                                         Need Help?
 1-800-CEDARS-1        (1-800-233-2771)        Available 24 Hours A Day                         Schedule a Callback                                                          Expert Care for Life™ Starts Here     Adult Primary Care        Pediatric Primary Care        Urgent Care                       Need Help?
 1-800-CEDARS-1   (1-800-233-2771)                       Schedule a Callback                                 Looking for a Physician     Choose a doctor and schedule an appointment.
 Find a Doctor                                    Share       Email      Print          Cedars-Sinai   Health Library      Acute Bacterial Rhinosinusitis               Jump back to top              Contribute            Giving   Give Now   Volunteer   Patient &amp; Family Advisors          Learn More            About Us   Quality Measures   Our Medical Network   Brand   Diversity &amp; Inclusion   Nondiscrimination   Purchasing          For Professionals            Resources   Medical Staff Directory   Staff Login          Connect            Contact Us   Newsroom   Blog &amp; Magazines   Events          International            International Patients          Join Our Team            Careers        call us 1-800-CEDARS-1         FOLLOW US             Join us on Facebook        Follow us on Twitter        Watch us on YouTube        Follow us on Instagram         get our app                    © 2020 Cedars-Sinai.
 All Rights Reserved.
 _satellite.pageBottom() : '');
