Publisher Gary Schwitzer and other contributors may post new articles periodically.
 But all of the 6,000+ articles we have published contain lessons to help you improve your critical thinking about health care interventions.
 And those will be still be alive on the site for a couple of years.
 Story Reviews News Release Review Blog Posts    6152 Posts 2616 Story Reviews 606 News Release Reviews 2930 Blog Posts   Home Story Reviews News Release Reviews Blog Podcasts About Us Editorial Team What We Review and How Review Criteria How Is the Star Score Determined?
 Our Comments Policy Accolades for HealthNewsReview.org Talks, Workshops &amp; Presentations Toolkit Tips for Analyzing Studies &amp; Health Care Claims Just for Journalists: Writing Tips Stories of Patient Harm from Misleading Media Pre-publication News Release Review Health News Watchdog podcasts News Sites &amp; Blogs We Like List of Industry-Independent Experts Links to Other Resources Contact    Menu               May 21, 2015 Read Original StoryWeak CBS story on IBS test has same problems as related med center news release   Reviewed By Rating  Categories  CBS News, Irritable bowel syndrome Tags  blood tests, diarrhea, Irritable bowel syndrome  New tests offer hope for millions of patients with irritable bowel syndrome   Our Review Summary A new test to help determine a more definitive diagnosis for people who suffer from gastrointestinal problems such as diarrhea and bloating would be a very good thing.
 Seeing as millions of people around the world suffer from uncomfortable and embarrassing symptoms that might be related to an irritable bowel, a better test to diagnose the condition could have far reaching implications.
 Unfortunately this story struck out on almost all counts — lacking detail on current ways to diagnose IBS, giving no sense of the magnitude of benefits or harms, and ultimately failing to deliver an adequate explanation of how patients would be better off if they receive a more definitive diagnosis of IBS.
 These shortcomings are similar to those of the news release that likely prompted the story, and which we also subjected to a systematic review.
 A better diagnostic test may relieve anxiety, help direct quicker therapy, and avoid other diagnostic tests that may be invasive.
 It could also provide quicker relief to patients and help them avoid treatments wouldn’t work for them.
 Criteria  Does the story adequately discuss the costs of the intervention?
 Not Satisfactory No mention of cost, and it’s not clear from the story if the tests are commercially available.
 Since there’s a consumer website devoted to the tests, we assume they can be purchased, but couldn’t find any cost information on the site.
 The story could have enlightened us.
 Does the story adequately quantify the benefits of the treatment/test/product/procedure?
 Not Satisfactory A CBS News chief medical correspondent weighed in to say that a “positive test result is highly suggestive of IBS, [yet] only 44 percent of patients with IBS tested positive, meaning that many people who test negative could in fact still have the condition.”  This is an important caveat, but any reporting of a new test should be able to discuss both the magnitude of benefit as well as the potential magnitude of false negatives AND false positives.
 Instead of describing a positive test result as “highly suggestive,” the story could have given us the actual numbers from the study.
 Does the story adequately explain/quantify the harms of the intervention?
 Not Satisfactory No test is 100 percent accurate, and a false positive test can lead to additional diagnostic testing that can cause harm as well as unnecessary treatments.
 The story could have mentioned this.
 Does the story seem to grasp the quality of the evidence?
 Not Satisfactory The story refers to this test being useful for “IBS” in general which is not correct.
 The story is simply wrong to use the general term “IBS” to describe this subgroup of IBS patients.
 Many, perhaps most, patients with IBS stand to gain nothing from the use of this test because they don’t have the specific symptoms that comprise this type of IBS.
 The story also provides no sense of the limitations of the study used to validate this test and which are clearly described in the original paper.
 One of the important caveats mentioned in the journal paper is that 10-15% of inflammatory bowel disease (esp Crohn’s disease) patients also have IBS, so it’s not clear what the test means for these people.
 Second, the story doesn’t describe that while the IBS population is large, there were only 43 control patients.
 It is hard to know how specific the test is without testing in more controls.
 Does the story commit disease-mongering?
 Not Satisfactory The story says IBS affects 25 million to 45 million people in the U.S.
 While this may be true, the test we’re talking about isn’t a test for IBS in general — it’s a test for those with the diarrhea predominant version.
 It’s not clear how many people this amounts to, but according to this study, less than half of the people with IBS meet the criteria for the diarrhea-predominant version.
 The story exaggerates the potential impact of the test in a way that promotes a commercial interest, so we’ll flag it for disease mongering.
 Does the story use independent sources and identify conflicts of interest?
 Not Satisfactory The quoted CBS news correspondent casts a sufficiently critical view of the test, yet it is hard to say if he is conflicted or not, seeing as he works for the same news outlet the news story has appeared in.
 It would have been relatively easy to discuss the tests with an outside expert unconnected to the test manufacturer or the news network.
 In addition, Dr. Pimental is quoted in the story as “the developer of the tests.” Most people will probably understand that he has a financial interest, but this could have been made more clear by saying so — disclosing that he’s a paid consultant of the companies developing the tests commercially.
 Does the story compare the new approach with existing alternatives?
 Not Satisfactory Even a mention of an alternative (such as how IBS is currently diagnosed) would have merited a satisfactory, but there is no mention of alternatives.
 Does the story establish the availability of the treatment/test/product/procedure?
 Not Satisfactory We don’t know if the tests are available, and we don’t learn anything about how far away from commercialization they might be.
 Does the story establish the true novelty of the approach?
 Satisfactory The article says the tests (and maybe even the hypothesis underlying the test) are new.
 The article also says this is the first time evidence has shown that IBS has an organic basis.
 Does the story appear to rely solely or largely on a news release?
 Satisfactory The description of “two simple blood tests” is suspiciously similar to copy from a news release issued a few days before the story was posted.
 And certainly the narrative of the story mirrors what we found in our review of that news release.
 But since the story does include at least one comment that puts a brake on some of the claims made by the manufacturer, we’ll give the benefit of the doubt here and award a Satisfactory.
 Total Score: 2 of 10 Satisfactory  You might also like   CBS News story on Alzheimer's treatment follows familiar formula With no apparent news hook, it's unclear why Fox News is discussing embryo screening CBS story on stem cells and root canals inflates the benefits and ignores the risks  Comments Please note, comments are no longer published through this website.
 All previously made comments are still archived and available for viewing through select posts.
 × Our Comments Policy We welcome comments, which users can leave at the end of any of our systematic story reviews or at the end of any of our blog posts.
 But before leaving a comment, please review these notes about our policy.
 You are responsible for any comments you leave on this site.
 This site is primarily a forum for discussion about the quality (or lack thereof) in journalism or other media messages (advertising, marketing, public relations, medical journals, etc.)
 It is not intended to be a forum for definitive discussions about medicine or science.
 We will delete comments that include personal attacks, unfounded allegations, unverified claims, product pitches, profanity or any from anyone who does not list a full name and a functioning email address.
 We will also end any thread of repetitive comments.
 We don”t give medical advice so we won”t respond to questions asking for it.
 We don”t have sufficient staffing to contact each commenter who left such a message.
 If you have a question about why your comment was edited or removed, you can email us at feedback@healthnewsreview.org.
 There has been a recent burst of attention to troubles with many comments left on science and science news/communication websites.
 Read “Online science comments:  trolls, trash and treasure.” The authors of the Retraction Watch comments policy urge commenters: “Shed light, not just heat.
 Facts, challenges, disagreements, corrections — those are all fine.
 Attacking the person, instead of the idea or the interpretation, is neither acceptable nor helpful.” We”re also concerned about anonymous comments.
 We ask that all commenters leave their full name and provide an actual email address in case we feel we need to contact them.
 We may delete any comment left by someone who does not leave their name and a legitimate email address.
 And, as noted, product pitches of any sort – pushing treatments, tests, products, procedures, physicians, medical centers, books, websites – are likely to be deleted.
 We don”t accept advertising on this site and are not going to give it away free.
 The ability to leave comments expires after a certain period of time.
 So you may find that you’re unable to leave a comment on an article that is more than a few months old.
 You might also like   CBS News story on Alzheimer's treatment follows familiar formula With no apparent news hook, it's unclear why Fox News is discussing embryo screening CBS story on stem cells and root canals inflates the benefits and ignores the risks   	Story Reviews  Systematic, Criteria-Driven News Organizations’ Overall Grades  @HealthNewsRevu HealthNewsReview.org@HealthNewsRevu·Focus on single study without putting in context of other studies.
 Disseminate incomplete reports of studies that have not been adequately reviewed.Reply on Twitter 1324784497376829446Retweet on Twitter 13247844973768294462Like on Twitter 13247844973768294464Twitter 1324784497376829446Retweet on TwitterHealthNewsReview.org Retweetedmlmjoyce@mlmjoyce·We connect the dots between the murder of #GeorgeFloyd , structural racism, and #publichealth with the help of @GeorgesBenjami7 of @PublicHealth , @annapoetic of @minneapolisgov , and @sandrogalea of @BUSPH https://twitter.com/PublicHealthUMN/status/1316813156249931777Reply on Twitter 1316814863289724929Retweet on Twitter 13168148632897249295Like on Twitter 13168148632897249294Twitter 1316814863289724929Retweet on TwitterHealthNewsReview.org RetweetedMighty #WearAMask Casey ☀️@MightyCasey·"please do not project certainty where certainty simply doesn't exist" Golden nugget of wisdom for emerging #science + #medicine journos looking not to fall for shiny happy PR bullshit.
