PLOS ONE promises fair, rigorous peer review,  broad scope, and wide readership – a perfect fit for your research every time.
 Learn More      Submit Now           About    Why Publish with PLOS ONE   Journal Information   Staff Editors   Editorial Board   Section Editors   Advisory Groups   Find and Read Articles   Publishing Information   Publication Fees   Press and Media   Contact      Browse      Search Search           advanced search              Browse Subject Areas   ?
 Click through the PLOS taxonomy to find articles in your field.
 For more information about PLOS Subject Areas, click    here.
 Please try again later.
 Article metrics are unavailable for recently published articles.
 Save     Total Mendeley bookmarks.
 Citation     Paper's citation count computed by Scopus.
 View     Sum of PLOS and PubMed Central page views and downloads.
 Share     Sum of Facebook and Twitter activity.
 Open Access Peer-reviewed  Research Article      CCL11 is increased in the CNS in chronic traumatic encephalopathy but not in Alzheimer’s disease    Jonathan D. Cherry ,   Roles  Conceptualization,   Data curation,   Formal analysis,   Investigation,   Methodology,   Writing – original draft,   Writing – review &amp; editing    * E-mail: Jdcherry@bu.edu Affiliations  Boston University Alzheimer’s Disease and CTE Center, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, United States of America,   Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA.
 United States of America,   VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA, United States of America          http://orcid.org/0000-0002-1257-981X    ⨯      Thor D. Stein,   Roles  Investigation,   Methodology,   Project administration,   Resources,   Supervision,   Writing – review &amp; editing   Affiliations  Boston University Alzheimer’s Disease and CTE Center, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, United States of America,   Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA.
 United States of America,   VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA, United States of America,   Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Bedford, MA, United States of America    ⨯      Bertrand R. Huber,   Roles  Resources,   Supervision,   Writing – review &amp; editing   Affiliations  Boston University Alzheimer’s Disease and CTE Center, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, United States of America,   Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA.
 United States of America,   VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA, United States of America    ⨯      Rhoda Au,   Roles  Resources   Affiliations  Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA.
 United States of America    ⨯      Todd M. Solomon,   Roles  Resources   Affiliation  Boston University Alzheimer’s Disease and CTE Center, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, United States of America    ⨯      Michael L. Alosco,   Roles  Resources,   Writing – review &amp; editing   Affiliations  Boston University Alzheimer’s Disease and CTE Center, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, United States of America,   Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA.
 United States of America    ⨯      Ann C. McKee   Roles  Funding acquisition,   Project administration,   Resources,   Supervision,   Validation,   Writing – review &amp; editing   Affiliations  Boston University Alzheimer’s Disease and CTE Center, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, United States of America,   Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA.
 Using a cohort of 23 deceased American football players with neuropathologically verified CTE, 50 subjects with neuropathologically diagnosed AD, and 18 non-athlete controls, CCL11 was measured with ELISA in the dorsolateral frontal cortex (DLFC) and CSF.
