News  News Latest News Colorado News Nation / World Crime &amp; Courts Weather Obituaries Colorado Wildfires Cannabist Education Health Environment Video Your Hub   Sports  Sports Denver Broncos Colorado Rockies Denver Nuggets Colorado Avalanche Colorado Rapids College Sports Outdoors Olympics Sports Columnists Preps Golf Boxing / MMA Sports on TV/Radio   Business  Business Aerospace Airlines Economy Energy Jobs Real Estate Retail Technology Tourism   Entertainment  Entertainment Arcade Games Arts Books Calendar Comics Movies Music Theater Television Television Listings Travel The Know   Lifestyle  Lifestyle Ask Amy Horoscopes Fashion Food &amp; Drink Restaurants &amp; Dining Fitness Home &amp; Garden Neighborhoods The Know Outdoors   Opinion  Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Perspective Cartoons Endorsements   Politics  Politics Colorado Politics Colorado Legislature Denver Politics Local Politics The Spot National Politics Trump Administration Election 2020   Classifieds  Classifieds Cars Homes Jobs Freelance Jobs   Subscribe Log In Logout        						GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER.
 CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS.
 Carroll, a Democrat, is challenging Coffman in the 6th Congressional District.
 The campaign is shelling out $45,000 for air the ad.
 “For months, Morgan Carroll has gone to pains to hide the fact that she is a personal injury lawyer,” Coffman campaign spokeswoman Cinamon Watson said.
 “The voters have a right to know that Morgan Carroll the personal injury lawyer unduly influenced the official behavior of Morgan Carroll the state senator.
 While moonlighting for some of Colorado’s most notorious law firms, Morgan Carroll also voted time and time again with the trial lawyers at the expense of doctors, nurses and small businesses.” “The two-pronged strategy includes both radio and digital advertising to deliver a message that lays out the facts on Morgan Carroll’s background.
 Watson continued, “These ads lay out the facts for voters.
 You can hear Coffman’s ad here:  http://extras.denverpost.com/media/mp3/2016/mike-coffman-radio-ad.mp3 Carroll’s campaign responded, and provided a comment from a supporter and law client.
 “Mike Coffman is attacking people with disabilities like Linda Salyers whom Morgan has spent her career fighting for,” said campaign manager Jennifer Donovan.
 “Morgan has never personally benefited or profited from any bill — ever.
 But facts don’t matter to Mike Coffman and Donald Trump.
 Unfortunately, this is the type of gutter politics that can be expected from a man who lacks the moral courage to denounce Donald Trump even after he mocked people with disabilities.
 It’s shameful that Mike Coffman and Donald Trump attack people with disabilities and the people who help them instead of helping us.” The 6th Congressional District wraps around the east metro Denver region, including Aurora.
 Coffman’s ad states: “Morgan Carroll is a state senator… and also a personal injury lawyer.
 “Now here’s the problem.
 Morgan Carroll the state senator has done everything in her power to make it easier for Morgan Carroll the personal injury lawyer to sue people.
 Good people too.
 Doctors, small businesses, even nurses.
 Using her position in the State Senate to line her own pockets.
 “Search for yourself: Morgan Carroll, state senator… and Morgan Carroll, personal injury lawyer… it’s all there.
 Conflicts of interest.
 An odor of corruption.
 And with Carroll’s history working for some of the most notorious law firms in the state – that should scare us all.
 “Morgan Carroll, state senator.
 and Morgan Carroll, personal injury lawyer — either way, she’s just another politician we can’t trust.
 Even a simple web search tells us that.”
