     HEALTH
 REFORM
 MONITORING
 SURVEY
 -- TEXAS7ABOUT THE AUTHORS
 Elena Marks, JD, MPH
 is the President
 and Chief Executive Officer of The Episcopal Health Foundation
 and a Health Policy
 Scholar at Rice UniversityÕs Baker
 Institute for Public Policy.
 Vivian Ho, PhD
, is the James A. Baker
 III Institute Chair in Health Economics, a professor in the Department of Economics at Rice University, and a professor in the Department of Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine.Jennifer Mineo, DrPH, is a private health services research
 consultant. The authors gratefully
 acknowledge the assistance of Meei Hsiang Ku-Goto and Philomene Balihe, and the financial support of the members of the Baker
 InstituteÕs Health Policy
 Forum.
 The core
 HRMS is supported by the Robert Wood
 Johnson Foundation,
 the Ford
 Foundation,
 and the Urban Institute. We appreciate
 the Urban InstituteÕs willingness to collaborate
 on expanding the HRMS sample to support estimates for Texas.
LOOKING AHEAD
 As
 the nation prepares
 for the second year of Marketplace
 enrollment, our next issue brief will focus on lessons learned from those who gained coverage
 in 2014 to inform this yearÕs enrollment efforts.   HEALTH
 REFORM
 MONITORING
 SURVEY
 -- TEXAS9Founded
 in 1993, the JAMES A. BAKER III INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY
 has established itself as one of the premier nonpartisan public policy think tanks in the country. The institute ranks 11th among university-afÞliated think tanks worldwide, 20th among U.S. think tanks and Þfth among energy resource
 think tanks, according to a 2013 study by the University of PennsylvaniaÕs Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program.
 As an integral part of Rice University, one of the nationÕs most distinguished institutions of higher education, the Baker Institute has a strong track record
 of achievement based on the work of its endowed fellows, Rice faculty scholars and staff. Located in Houston, Texas, the nationÕs fourth-largest city and the energy capital of the United States, as well as a dynamic international business and cultural center, the Baker Institute brings a unique perspective to some of the most important public policy challenges of our time.Contact information can be found at: http://bakerinstitute.orgTHE EPISCOPAL HEALTH FOUNDATION 
is a newly established entity with $1 billion in assets dedicated to improving the health and well-being of the people and communities in the Episcopal Diocese of Texas. The Foundation embraces
 the World Health OrganizationÕs
 broad, holistic deÞnition of health: a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely
 the absence of disease. The FoundationÕs
 work includes research,
 grant-making
 and other initiatives aimed at transformational
 change.Contact information can be found at: http://www.episcopalhealth.orgSuggested Citation: Marks, E. and Ho, V. James A. Baker
 III Institute for Public Policy,
 Rice University, The Episcopal Health Foundation,
 Health Reform Monitoring Survey Ð Texas, 
Issue Brief #7: Insurance Status of Adult Texans and Characteristics of the Uninsured as of June 2014
©2014 James A Baker
 III Institute for Public Policy,
 Episcopal Health Foundation
