You now use your email to login.
 Email: *    Password: *   Forgot password?
 Remember my login on this computer                        Politics 4/06/20 2:00pm     Read time: 2 minutes     Comments   A Memo From A Grocery Store Manager  A grocery store manager's post to a neighborhood website is worth the click.
 By Frances Langum                    Wapo is reporting that grocery workers are beginning to die of Coronavirus.
 This, from a grocery store manager, is getting heavy shares on social media:  I manage a grocery store.
 Here's some things everyone should know 1.
 I don't have toilet paper 2.
 I don't have sanitizer 3.
 I run out of milk, eggs and meat daily 4.
 I promise if it's out on the shelf ... it's not in a hidden corner of our backroom.
 Those are the predictable ones, now for the real stuff 5.
 I have been doing this for 25 years I did not forget how to order product.
 6.
 I did not cause the warehouse to be out of product/ 7.
 I schedule as much help as I have, including many workers working TONS of overtime to help YOU.
 8.
 I am sorry there are lines at the check out lanes.
 Now for the really important stuff: 9.
 My team puts themselves in harm's way every day so you can buy groceries.
 10.
 My team works tirelessly to get product on the floor for you to buy.
 11.
 My team is exhausted.
 12.
 My team is scared of getting sick.
 13.
 My team is human and does not possess an antivirus... they are in just as much danger as you are.
 (Arguably more) but they show up to work every day just so you can buy groceries 14.
 My team is tired.
 15.
 My team is very under-appreciated.
 16.
 My team is exposed to more people who are potentially infected in one hour than most of you will in a week (medical community excluded, thank you for all that you do!).
 17.
 My team is abused all day by customers who have no idea how ignorant they are.
 18.
 My team disinfects every surface possible, everyday, just so you can come in grab a wipe from the dispenser, wipe the handle and throw the used wipe in the cart or on the ground and leave it there... so my team can throw it in the trash for you later.
 19.
 My team wonders if you wash your re-usable bags, that you force us to touch, that are clearly dirty and have more germs on them than our shopping carts do.
 20.
 My team more than earns their breaks, lunches and days off.
 And if that means you wait longer I am sorry.
 The last thing I will say is this: The next time you are in a grocery store, please pause and think about what you are saying and how you are treating the people you encounter.
 They are the reason you are able to buy toilet paper, sanitizer, milk, eggs, and meat.
 If the store you go to is out of an item.. maybe find the neighbor or friend that bought enough for a year ... there are hundreds of them... and ask them to spare 1 or 2.
 They caused the problem to begin with... And lastly, please THANK the people who helped you.
 They don't have to come to work!
 Tags: COVID19, Grocery Stores, shortages, supply chain        Facebook Twitter Pinterest Flipboard Email              Can you help us out?
 For 16 years we have been exposing Washington lies and untangling media deceit.
 We work 7 days a week, 16 hours a day for our labor of love, but with rising hosting and associated costs, we need your help!
 Could you donate $20 for 2020?
 Please consider a one time or recurring donation of whatever amount you can spare, or consider subscribing for an ad-free experience.
 It will be greatly appreciated and help us continue our mission of exposing the real FAKE NEWS!
 Become a subscriber: To become an ad-free subscriber please select one of the following two options.
 Once you click your selected plan a window will open taking you to Admiral, our ad-free partner.MonthlyEnjoy ad-free browsing while paying as you go.Just $1 for a month$4.99/month thereafterSelect PlanYearlyEnjoy a full year of ad-free browsing.$50.00/yearSelect Plan**Does not apply to Comments, YouTube or any other embedded service ads.
 View our Ad-Free FAQ for more information.
 Make a donation: If you don't mind the ads and would rather donate, please select one of the options below:    Kindest   Donate via PayPal   Via Snail Mail
 payable to: Crooksandliars
 P.O.
 BOX 1789
 Pacific Palisades, CA 90272-9997          More C&amp;L Coverage            'Don't Waste Your Vodka': Hand Sanitizing In The Age Of COVID-19  
       MOST hand sanitizers don't kill viruses as well as a good hand washing.
 And there's more...     
    Mar 10, 2020   By ProPublica           Andrew Zimmern: Problems With Food Supply Isn't Scarcity, It's Leadership  
       "People shouldn't be in panic mode yet or rushing to their grocer and trying to buy every perishable item that they can," the food expert said.
 Apr 30, 2020   By Susie Madrak           In The Age Of Coronavirus, The Milkman Cometh  
       Here's a sight we never thought we'd see again.
 May 25, 2020   By Susie Madrak           The Onion's Prescient Column On Trump Promoting Injesting Cleaning Products  
       "Man Just Buying One Of Every Cleaning Product In Case Trump Announces It’s Coronavirus Cure," was the tile of their March 25 piece.
 Apr 25, 2020   By Ed Scarce           Shutstorm 2013: GOP Arsonists And 'Moderates' Behind Closed Doors  
       The Daily Show's Jon Stewart wonders where all of the GOP "moderates" have gone and once again took on the Republicans who are ready to just burn the place down before they'll put an end to this government shutdown.
 Oct 09, 2013   By Heather           Shutstorm 2013: GOP Arsonists And 'Moderates' Behind Closed Doors  
       The Daily Show's Jon Stewart wonders where all of the GOP "moderates" have gone and once again took on the Republicans who are ready to just burn the place down before they'll put an end to this government shutdown.
 We will supply more details as we get closer to the change.
 We understand some users are having problems with comments loading and this will hopefully remedy that problem We welcome relevant, respectful comments.
 Any comments that are sexist or in any other way deemed hateful by our staff will be deleted and constitute grounds for a ban from posting on the site.
 Please refer to our Terms of Service (revised 3/17/2016) for information on our posting policy.
 They weren't.
 Nov 09, 2020   By Ed Scarce             Mike's Blog Round Up  
       Post-Election Links of a Liberal Nature     
    Nov 09, 2020   By M. Bouffant             Pfizer: New Covid Vaccine Was 90% Effective In Early Analysis  
       If this holds up, it is fantastic news.
 Nov 09, 2020   By Susie Madrak             While Philadelphians Celebrated, Election Officials Got Death Threats  
       In Philadelphia, the birthplace of American democracy, election officials carry out their duties while facing unfounded attacks on the integrity of the vote by a sitting president.
 Bill Whitaker reports.
 Nov 09, 2020   By Susie Madrak             John Oliver: We Won't Have To Think About Him Once He's Gone  
       Oliver wanted to stress how important it is to savor this victory, even though it might not be the end of the fight against fascists and fascist sympathizers in America.
 Nov 09, 2020   By Susie Madrak             Canadian Man Goes Viral Telling Trump Supporters To 'Stay The F**k Away From Canada'  
       A Canadian man blasted President Donald Trump’s supporters who have threatened to move to his country after a stinging defeat by President-elect Joe Biden.
 Nov 08, 2020   By Ed Scarce             Watch As Televangelist Kenneth Copeland Laughs Like A Lunatic At Media For Saying Biden Won  
       Copeland looks deranged to the rest of us, but there's something more sinister going on: brainwashing.
 Nov 08, 2020   By Ed Scarce             Kristi Noem Pivots To Attacking Election Results To Avoid Answering For Her Horrid COVID Response  
       ABC's George Stephanopoulos allows South Dakota Gov.
 Kristi Noem to change the subject to pushing right wing conspiracy theories about massive voter fraud in order to avoid taking responsibility for her horrid response to the coronavirus [...]     
    Nov 08, 2020   By Heather             Newt Gingrich Spews Wild Voter Fraud Conspiracies On F&F;  
       Newt Gingrich's appearance on Fox and Friends Sunday was filled with wild and unproven claims of voter fraud and deep state conspiracies against Trump.
 "https://secure."
 : "http://www.
 "); document.write(" ");      ©2020 Crooks and Liars     
  Footer About Us Feeds Contact Terms of Service Privacy DMCA
