The hospital with 100 isolation beds for COVID-19 patients got another admission on Friday.
 “A man who returned from Italy this week and was lodged at the Army’s quarantine facility in Manesar, Haryana, has tested positive for COVID-19.
 According to the medical protocol, he has been shifted to an isolation facility at Safdarjung Hospital for further medical examination and recovery,” said a senior Health Ministry official.The man was among 83 people who returned from Italy on Wednesday.
 The group was moved to the Army’s quarantine facility at Manesar.Safdarjung Hospital currently has 29 admitted cases, out of which 15 have tested positive, 1 negative and 11 reports are awaited.“India has brought in several measures, including travel restrictions, suspension of visas and self-quarantine.
 Early establishment of surveillance of entry points and universal screening of passengers at airports and vessels at seaports, evacuation of Indian citizens from COVID-19-affected countries, adequate laboratory and quarantine facilities have contributed immensely towards containment and management of COVID-19 in the country,” said the official.
 The Health Ministry has said that if a person shows any sign or symptom like fever, dry cough, difficulty in breathing etc., he or she should visit a doctor or dial the Ministry’s 24X7 helpline number, 011-23978046.
 “Remember to wear a mask before stepping out to see the doctor.According to figures released by the Union Health Ministry, a total 11,71,061 passengers have been screened from 10,876 flights at 30 designated airports.
 Also, 3,062 passengers and 583 contacts were identified and referred to Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme or designated hospitals.
 A total of 42,296 passengers have been brought under community surveillance, out of which 2,559 were symptomatic and 522 hospitalised.
 As many as 25,504 passengers have been additionally screened at major and minor seaports, and more than 14 lakh people have been screened at land ports.
 To get full access, please subscribe.
 Already have an account ?
 Sign in       Show Less Plan   Start your 14 days free trial.
 ?
 "&amp;" : "?")
 To enable wide dissemination of news that is in public interest, we have increased the number of articles that can be read free, and extended free trial periods.
 However, we have a request for those who can afford to subscribe: please do.
 As we fight disinformation and misinformation, and keep apace with the happenings, we need to commit greater resources to news gathering operations.
 We promise to deliver quality journalism that stays away from vested interest and political propaganda.
 It’s a support for truth and fairness in journalism.
 It has helped us keep apace with events and happenings.The Hindu has always stood for journalism that is in the public interest.
 At this difficult time, it becomes even more important that we have access to information that has a bearing on our health and well-being, our lives, and livelihoods.
 gives nod to prosecute Umar Khalid under UAPA        Delhi  Air pollution continues to be ‘severe’ in NCR        Delhi  Third wave of COVID-19 in Delhi worst so far; cases to come down soon: Health Minister Satyendar Jain        Delhi  No relief for Delhi from ‘severe’ air quality        Delhi  UPSC aspirant held for selling videos of private coaching centre        Delhi  PM Modi to unveil Swami Vivekananda’s statue on JNU campus        Delhi  Delhi govt.to cut cost of RT-PCR test        Delhi  Haryana CM does U-turn on cracker ban in the State        Delhi  Record single-day spike in Delhi with 7,745 COVID-19 cases        Delhi  Coronavirus | Delhi government seeks vacation of High Court stay on reserving COVID-19 beds        Delhi  Delhi govt.
 bans firecrackers ahead of Diwali        Delhi  Ex-Facebook employee to depose before us on November 10: Delhi Assembly panel        Delhi  Stubble burning: Pusa bio-decomposer successful; will tell Supreme Court, says Kejriwal        Delhi  Farm fires keep Delhi’s air quality ‘severe’        Delhi  Genetic research pilot study by Delhi hospital finds ‘unexpected results’        Delhi  Students protest against delay in scholarships        Delhi  Watch | Baba ka Dhaba: viral video saves business of elderly couple        Delhi  ABVP burns Manusmriti copies in JNU        Delhi  ‘No home quarantine for most passengers arriving in Capital’        Delhi  Lockdown: Over 60% of sex workers in Delhi return to their home states        Delhi  Two virtual courts launched to settle traffic challans        Delhi  In Delhi, sex work with face masks and hand sanitisers        Delhi  HC plea alleges illegal operation of path labs in Delhi        Delhi  Eight arrested in fake credit cards racket        Delhi  ‘Baba ka Dhaba’ owner complains against fundraiser, alleges misappropriation of funds        Delhi  FIR against firm for embezzlement of over ₹300 cr.
 For Full access   Subscribe Now    X      You have read 1 out of 10 free articles for the month.
 Subscribe Now    x              Subscribe to The Hindu now and get unlimited access.
 Subscribe now  Already have an account?
 ', "bodyText":'We promise to only send you relevant content and give you updates on your transactions', "okButtonText":'Sign me up!
 ', "bodyText":'We promise to only send you relevant content and give you updates on your transactions', "okButtonText":'Sign me up!
