Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 David Mikkelson                       				smg.ads.load( 'post-featured-1' ); 			     Claim:   The “Cap and Trade energy bill” requires that all existing real estate must meet new energy standards before it can be sold.
 These standards are about a general 35% increase in what is now required in building codes.
 It requires such things as requiring solar reflective roofs, double pane windows, energy efficient appliances and lighting, increased insulation, leak test, and on and on and on.
 In order to sell or rent any building, you will be required to have a certificate of efficiency issued by a federal building efficiency inspector (new division of the US Dept.
 of Energy).
 No certification, no sell or rent, simple as that.
 [Collected via e-mail, August 2010] A License Required for your HOUSE?
 Thinking about selling your house.
 Take a look at H.R.
 2454 (Cap and Trade bill), that has passed the House of Representatives and being considered by the Senate.
 Home owners take note &amp; tell your friends and relatives who are home owners!
 Beginning 1 year after enactment of the Cap and Trade Act, you won’t be able to sell your home unless you retrofit it to comply with the energy and water efficiency standards of this Act.
 H.R.
 2454, the “Cap &amp; Trade” bill will be the largest tax increase any of us has ever experienced.
 The Congressional Budget Office (supposedly non-partisan) estimates that in just a few years the average cost to every family of four will be $6,800 per year.
 No one is excluded.
 A year from now you won’t be able to sell your house.
 The caveat is, that if you have enough money to make required major upgrades to your home, then you can sell it.
 But, if not, then forget it.
 Even pre-fabricated homes (“mobile homes”) are included.
 In effect, this bill prevents you from selling your home without the permission of the EPA administrator.
 To get this permission,you will have to have the energy efficiency of your home measured.
 Cost $200 to start.
 Then the government will tell you what your new energy efficiency requirement is and you will be forced to make modifications to your home under the retrofit provisions of this Act to comply with the new energy and water efficiency requirements, which easily could cost over $50,000.
 Then you will have to get your home measured again and get a license (called a “label” in the Act) that must be posted on your property to show what your efficiency rating is; sort of like the Energy Star efficiency rating label on your refrigerator or air conditioner.
 If you don’t get a high enough rating, you can’t sell.
 And, the EPA administrator is authorized to raise the standards every year, even above the automatic energy efficiency increases built into the Act.
 The EPA administrator, appointed by the President, will run the Cap &amp; Trade program (AKA the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009”) and is authorized to make any future changes to the regulations and standards he/she alone determines to be in the government’s best interest.
 Requirements are set low initially so the bill will pass Congress; then the Administrator can set much tougher new standards every year.
 The Act itself contains annual required increases in energy efficiency for private and commercial residences and buildings.
 However, the EPA administrator can set higher standards at any time.
 Sect.
 202 Building Retrofit Program mandates a national retrofit program to increase the energy efficiency of all existing homes across America.
 The label will be like a license for your car.
 You will be required to post the label in a conspicuous location in your home and will not be allowed to sell your home without having this label.
 And, just like your car license, you will probably be required to get a new label every so often – maybe every year.
 The government estimates the cost of measuring the energy efficiency of your home should only cost about $200 each time.
 Remember what they said about the auto smog inspections when they first started: that in California it would only cost $15.
 That was when the program started.
 Now the cost is about $50 for the inspection and certificate; a 333% increase.
 Expect the same from the home labeling program.
 Origins:   HR 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (also known as the “cap-and-trade energy bill”), is a bill intended to “create clean energy jobs, achieve energy independence, reduce global warming pollution and transition to a clean energy economy.” The bill was passed by the House of Representatives in June 2009, but it has not yet been voted upon by the Senate.
 The version of the bill passed by the House sets energy efficiency standards benchmarks that must be met by new buildings, both residential and  commercial, constructed after the bill takes effect (i.e., after the bill was passed by both the House and Senate and signed into law).
 Contrary to what is claimed above, however, HR 2454 contains no provisions requiring that existing homes “must meet the new energy standards” before they can be re-sold.
 Likewise, the bill includes no requirements that an existing residential property undergo an energy usage-related audit or inspection and be assigned a “certificate of efficiency issued by a federal building efficiency inspector” before it can be re-sold or rented.
 This misinformation about mandatory energy standard retrofits and licensing requirements has been promulgated primarily through a misunderstanding of Section 202 of HR 2454, which is headed “Building Retrofit Program” and calls for the establishment of “standards for a national energy and environmental building retrofit policy.” However, those standards are specifically indicated as being part of the Retrofit for Energy and Environmental Performance (REEP) program, a program intended to establish state programs to provide cash incentives to property owners who voluntarily choose to make their buildings more energy efficient.
 smg.ads.load( 'post-body-2' ); 			   The House Energy and Commerce Committee, who has jurisdiction over the implementation of cap-and-trade legislation, notes in their section-by-section explanation of HR 2454 that Section 202:   Establishes the Retrofit for Energy and Environmental Performance program to provide allowances to states to conduct cost-effective building retrofits.
 Provides that states may use local governments or other agencies or entities to carry out the work and may use flexible forms of financial assistance providing up to 50% of the costs of retrofits, with funding increasing in proportion to efficiency achievement.
 Provides additional assistance for the retrofitting of historic buildings.
 Directs the Administrator of EPA to establish standards and guidelines for the program, in consultation with the Secretary of DOE.
 Allows federal funds provided to disaster victims to qualify as a building owner’s contribution toward matching requirements.
 Requires states to offer preferential access to at least 10% of dedicated program funding to public and assisted housing.
 Nothing would require a homeowner to audit or retrofit their home to ensure that it meets building code requirements.
 The National Association of Realtors (NAR) also noted of that section of HR 2454:    [HR 2454] does not require that buildings be retrofitted.
 Rather, it provides federal funding for states to offer financial incentives, such as loans or grants, for property owners to voluntarily decide to improve energy efficiency.
 In order to receive the funding, there are conditions on how states can spend the money, such as verification of energy improvements performed by private contractors, but that is only to ensure that taxpayer dollars are actually spent on the purpose for which it is intended (building efficiency improvements).
 There is no point-of-sale guideline or any other requirement of any sort in the House passed bill.
 Nowhere does this bill create a federal requirement that a property owner would have to retrofit a property to any guideline at any time — let alone at point of sale.
 The bill does stipulate federal guidelines to ensure that states spend and verify that bill funding goes to financial incentives for property owners to voluntarily make improvements.
 An entirely separate bill would have to be drafted, introduced, passed by committees and both houses of Congress, and signed by the President into law in order for the Federal government to go beyond [HR 2454’s] financial incentives for voluntary energy improvements.
 Last updated:   7 September 2010        Snopes.com   Since 1994     Help Supercharge Snopes For 2020  				We have big plans.
 We need your help.
 Become a member!
 By   David Mikkelson     Filed Under   ASP Article               				smg.ads.load( 'post-footer-1' ); 			    Editors' Picks         Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 Did DHS Secretly Watermark Ballots in an Election Fraud Sting Against Dems?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Discussing election mechanics is easier when you actually know how elections work.
 Can State Legislatures Override the Choice of Presidential Electors?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   The electoral college is a unique system for indirectly electing the president of the United States.
 Has Starbucks Sold a ‘Christmas Blend’ Since 1984?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Since at least 2015, the popular coffee chain has faced accusations of being "anti-Christmas."
 Snopes Fact-Checks the 2020 US Election, Live    															5 November 2020													  							Collections						   Lies don't wait — and neither does Snopes.
 Did a Fox 2 Detroit Report Expose Voter Fraud in the 2020 Election?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   An image graphic detailing an assortment of potential election crimes was shared on social media the day after the 2020 presidential election.
 Was the 2020 U.S. Presidential Election Winner Announced Yet?
 7 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   For days, the world waited to see who American voters want to serve as the 46th president of the United States — Donald Trump or Joe Biden.
 Were Trump Ballots Marked with Sharpies Disqualified in Arizona?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Arizona was one of several states apparently won by Joe Biden in 2020 that were targeted by election-related conspiracy theories.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			     Snopes.com needs your help.Become a member today.
 Learn How          				smg.ads.load( 'side-3' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 See the whole collection.
 Support Us       					You rely on Snopes, and we rely on you.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
