Your source for the latest research news      Follow Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Subscribe RSS Feeds Newsletters    New:   Baby Dinosaurs Were 'Little Adults' Half of Sun-Like Stars Could Host Rocky Planets Early Big-Game Hunters Were Likely Female Positive Outlook Predicts Less Memory Decline Touch and Taste?
 It's All in the Tentacles Where Were Jupiter and Saturn Born?
 Science News from research organizations     1 2  Marijuana use involved in more fatal accidents since commercialization of medical marijuana  Date: May 15, 2014 Source: University of Colorado Denver Summary: The proportion of marijuana-positive drivers involved in fatal motor vehicle crashes in Colorado has increased dramatically since the commercialization of medical marijuana in the middle of 2009, according to a study.
 The study raises important concerns about the increase in the proportion of drivers in a fatal motor vehicle crash who were marijuana-positive since the commercialization of medical marijuana in Colorado, particularly in comparison to the 34 non-medical marijuana states.
 Share:               FULL STORY     The proportion of marijuana-positive drivers involved in fatal motor vehicle crashes in Colorado has increased dramatically since the commercialization of medical marijuana in the middle of 2009, according to a study by University of Colorado School of Medicine researchers.
 The researchers found that fatal motor vehicle crashes in Colorado involving at least one driver who tested positive for marijuana accounted for 4.5 percent in the first six months of 1994; this percentage increased to 10 percent in the last six months of 2011.
 They reported that Colorado underwent a significant increase in the proportion of drivers in a fatal motor vehicle crash who were marijuana-positive after the commercialization of medical marijuana in the middle of 2009.
 The increase in Colorado was significantly greater compared to the 34 non-medical marijuana states from mid-2009 to 2011.
 The researchers also reported no significant changes over time in the proportion of drivers in a fatal motor vehicle crash who were alcohol-impaired within Colorado and comparing Colorado to the 34 non-medical marijuana states.
 Stacy Salomonsen-Sautel, Ph.D, who was a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Pharmacology, is the lead author of the study, which is available online in the journal Drug and Alcohol Dependence.
 Christian Hopfer, MD, associate professor of psychiatry, is the senior author.
 Salomonsen-Sautel said the study raises important concerns about the increase in the proportion of drivers in a fatal motor vehicle crash who were marijuana-positive since the commercialization of medical marijuana in Colorado, particularly in comparison to the 34 non-medical marijuana states.
 While the study does not determine cause and effect relationships, such as whether marijuana-positive drivers caused or contributed to the fatal crashes, it indicates a need for better education and prevention programs to curb impaired driving.
 make a difference: sponsored opportunity           Story Source: Materials provided by University of Colorado Denver.
 Note: Content may be edited for style and length.
 Journal Reference:  Stacy Salomonsen-Sautel, Sung-Joon Min, Joseph T. Sakai, Christian Thurstone, Christian Hopfer.
 Trends in fatal motor vehicle crashes before and after marijuana commercialization in Colorado.
 Drug and Alcohol Dependence, 2014; DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2014.04.008        Cite This Page:   MLA APA Chicago   University of Colorado Denver.
 "Marijuana use involved in more fatal accidents since commercialization of medical marijuana."
 ScienceDaily.
 ScienceDaily, 15 May 2014. .
 University of Colorado Denver.
 (2014, May 15).
 Marijuana use involved in more fatal accidents since commercialization of medical marijuana.
 ScienceDaily.
 Retrieved November 9, 2020 from www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2014/05/140515173507.htm University of Colorado Denver.
 "Marijuana use involved in more fatal accidents since commercialization of medical marijuana."
 ScienceDaily.
 www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2014/05/140515173507.htm (accessed November 9, 2020).
 A new study suggests that may have consequences on adolescents, with those who view more ... Mixing Booze, Pot Is a Serious Threat to Traffic Safety  June 12, 2017 — Use of marijuana in combination with alcohol by drivers is especially dangerous, according to a study.
 Drivers who used alcohol, marijuana, or both were significantly more likely to be responsible ...
 Marijuana Survey Finds Medical Users More Likely to Consume Edibles and Vaporize  Jan. 28, 2016 — A new study provides some of the first evidence about patterns of marijuana use in states that have legalized medical marijuana.
 It finds that medical marijuana users are more likely to vaporize or ... What Leads to the Local Adoption and Implementation of Recreational Marijuana Policies?
 Nov. 17, 2015 — When states move to legalize marijuana, local governments are faced with enacting -- or in some cases restricting -- the policy change in their jurisdictions.
 Using Colorado as a case study, a new ...        FROM AROUND THE WEB  ScienceDaily shares links with sites in the TrendMD network and earns revenue from third-party advertisers, where indicated.
 Toggle navigation Menu    SD   SD  Home Page   Top Science News   Latest News        Home   Home Page   Top Science News   Latest News      Health     View all the latest top news in the health sciences, or browse the topics below:   Health &amp; Medicine  Allergy Alternative Medicine Birth Control Cancer Diabetes Diseases Heart Disease HIV and AIDS Obesity Stem Cells ... more topics      Mind &amp; Brain  ADD and ADHD Addiction Alzheimer's Autism Depression Headaches Intelligence Psychology Relationships Schizophrenia ... more topics      Living Well  Parenting Pregnancy Sexual Health Skin Care Men's Health Women's Health Nutrition Diet and Weight Loss Fitness Healthy Aging ... more topics                Tech     View all the latest top news in the physical sciences &amp; technology, or browse the topics below:   Matter &amp; Energy  Aviation Chemistry Electronics Fossil Fuels Nanotechnology Physics Quantum Physics Solar Energy Technology Wind Energy ... more topics      Space &amp; Time  Astronomy Black Holes Dark Matter Extrasolar Planets Mars Moon Solar System Space Telescopes Stars Sun ... more topics      Computers &amp; Math  Artificial Intelligence Communications Computer Science Hacking Mathematics Quantum Computers Robotics Software Video Games Virtual Reality ... more topics                Enviro     View all the latest top news in the environmental sciences, or browse the topics below:   Plants &amp; Animals  Agriculture and Food Animals Biology Biotechnology Endangered Animals Extinction Genetically Modified Microbes and More New Species Zoology ... more topics      Earth &amp; Climate  Climate Earthquakes Environment Geography Geology Global Warming Hurricanes Ozone Holes Pollution Weather ... more topics      Fossils &amp; Ruins  Ancient Civilizations Anthropology Archaeology Dinosaurs Early Humans Early Mammals Evolution Lost Treasures Origin of Life Paleontology ... more topics                Society     View all the latest top news in the social sciences &amp; education, or browse the topics below:   Science &amp; Society  Arts &amp; Culture Consumerism Economics Political Science Privacy Issues Public Health Racial Disparity Religion Sports World Development ... more topics      Business &amp; Industry  Biotechnology &amp; Bioengineering Computers &amp; Internet Energy &amp; Resources Engineering Medical Technology Pharmaceuticals Transportation ... more topics      Education &amp; Learning  Animal Learning &amp; Intelligence Creativity Educational Psychology Educational Technology Infant &amp; Preschool Learning Learning Disorders STEM Education ... more topics                Quirky   Top News   Human Quirks Odd Creatures Bizarre Things Weird World         Keyword:Search               Free Subscriptions  Get the latest science news with ScienceDaily's free email newsletters, updated daily and weekly.
 Or view hourly updated newsfeeds in your RSS reader:    Email Newsletters    RSS Feeds     Follow Us  Keep up to date with the latest news from ScienceDaily via social networks:    Facebook    Twitter    LinkedIn     Have Feedback?
 Tell us what you think of ScienceDaily -- we welcome both positive and negative comments.
 Have any problems using the site?
 Questions?
 Leave Feedback    Contact Us        About This Site  |  Staff  |  Reviews  |  Contribute  |  Advertise  |  Privacy Policy  |  Editorial Policy  |  Terms of Use   Copyright 2020 ScienceDaily or by other parties, where indicated.
 All rights controlled by their respective owners.
 Content on this website is for information only.
 It is not intended to provide medical or other professional advice.
 Views expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of ScienceDaily, its staff, its contributors, or its partners.
 Financial support for ScienceDaily comes from advertisements and referral programs, where indicated.
 — CCPA: Do Not Sell My Information — — GDPR: Privacy Settings —
