Florida Statutes, and all other applicable laws, promulgate the following Executive Order to take immediate effect: Section 1. A. I hereby direct all persons whose point of departure originates from outside the State of Florida in an area with substantial community spread, to include the New York Tri-State Area (Connecticut, New Jersey and New York), and entering the State of Florida through airports to isolate or quarantine for a period of 14 days from the time of entry into the State of Florida or the duration of the person's presence in the State of Florida, whichever is shorter. This Order shall not apply to persons employed by the airlines and those performing military, emergency or health response. This Order shall take effect on March 24, 2020 at 12:01 a.m. All persons isolating or quarantining under this Section, shall be responsible for all costs associated with that person's isolation or quarantine, including transportation, lodging, food, medical care and any other expenses to sustain the person during the period of isolation or quarantine. B. I hereby direct the Florida Department of Health, pursuant to section 381.00315(5), Florida Statutes, to immediately apply existing rules adopted pursuant to that section. The Florida Department of Health shall take any steps necessary to ensure the screening and appropriate isolation and quarantine of individuals covered by this Order. C. I hereby direct the Florida Department of Health to coordinate with the Florida Division of Emergency Management, each aviation and airport authority in Florida, county and local governments, and law enforcement agencies to effectuate the isolation or quarantine outlined above. D. Pursuant to section 381.0012(5), Florida Statutes, "it shall be the duty of every state and county attorney, sheriff, police officer, and other appropriate city and county officials 2  upon request to assist the [Department of Health]" in enforcing any isolation or quarantine or order of the Department of Health issued pursuant to this Order. E. Any person who violates any isolation or quarantine directed by the Department of Health commits a misdemeanor of the second degree, which is punishable by imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, a fine not to exceed $500, or both. See§ 381.00315(6), Fla. Stat. Section 2. This Executive Order shall expire upon the expiration of Executive Order 20-52, including any extensions, or upon an Executive Order lifting the isolation or quarantine after advice from the State Health Officer and Surgeon General. IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Great Seal of the State of Flo · a to be affixed, t Tallahassee, this 23rd ATTEST: ( I Ł 3 