News  News Latest News Colorado News Nation / World Crime &amp; Courts Weather Obituaries Colorado Wildfires Cannabist Education Health Environment Video Your Hub   Sports  Sports Denver Broncos Colorado Rockies Denver Nuggets Colorado Avalanche Colorado Rapids College Sports Outdoors Olympics Sports Columnists Preps Golf Boxing / MMA Sports on TV/Radio   Business  Business Aerospace Airlines Economy Energy Jobs Real Estate Retail Technology Tourism   Entertainment  Entertainment Arcade Games Arts Books Calendar Comics Movies Music Theater Television Television Listings Travel The Know   Lifestyle  Lifestyle Ask Amy Horoscopes Fashion Food &amp; Drink Restaurants &amp; Dining Fitness Home &amp; Garden Neighborhoods The Know Outdoors   Opinion  Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Perspective Cartoons Endorsements   Politics  Politics Colorado Politics Colorado Legislature Denver Politics Local Politics The Spot National Politics Trump Administration Election 2020   Classifieds  Classifieds Cars Homes Jobs Freelance Jobs   Subscribe Log In Logout        						GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER.
 CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS.
 So officials are expanding testing to all students and staff who were at the school during the fall semester.
 A news release from the agency stated that people who were potentially exposed to the disease were tested in January but didn’t show signs of infection.
 However, new test results of the same people showed that some did get infected.
 But the agency said no one in the group is sick.
 Those who are infected but not sick can be treated to eliminate the infection and prevent future sickness, health officials said.
 The disease is spread through airborne germs when a person spends a lot of time with someone who is sick, and, if left untreated, it can be deadly.
 It asked for parental consent and that students attend school those days.
 For those who cannot, testing is available 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday at the Denver Metro Tuberculosis Clinic at 605 Bannock St. Denver Public Health is also holding two town hall meetings for families at the school at 6 p.m. Thursday and Monday in the World Cafe.
 Related Articles   			Weiser: The DOJ’s attack on the Affordable Care Act is an affront to the rule of law		     			Unemployment drops to 6.9% as U.S. adds a solid 638,000 jobs		     			Why John Hickenlooper won and Cory Gardner lost Colorado’s U.S. Senate race		     			Healthpeak Properties confirms its headquarters will move from California to Denver		     			Majority Leader McConnell holds his Kentucky seat, but control of Senate at stake		   The agency said it hasn’t found anyone who is sick from tuberculosis at the school — the only way the disease can be spread — so there is no current ongoing risk at Aurora Hills Middle School.
 Most people who are exposed to tuberculosis don’t get infected, but symptoms can include a chronic cough, fever or night sweats that continue for weeks and increase in severity, according to Denver Public Health.
 For more information on tuberculosis, go to Denver Metro Tuberculosis Clinic’s website, and for anyone who may be exhibiting symptoms, contact a primary care provider.
 The clinic provides treatment for free.
