SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexU.S.Today’s PaperU.S.|Kneeling With Death Haunted a Lifehttps://nyti.ms/29nWgmUAdvertisementContinue reading the main storySupported byContinue reading the main storyKneeling With Death Haunted a LifeBy The Associated PressMay 6, 1990Credit...The New York Times ArchivesSee the article in its original context from May 6, 1990, Section 1, Page 32Buy ReprintsView on timesmachineTimesMachine is an exclusive benefit for home delivery and digital subscribers.About the ArchiveThis is a digitized version of an article from The Times’s print archive, before the start of online publication in 1996.
 To preserve these articles as they originally appeared, The Times does not alter, edit or update them.Occasionally the digitization process introduces transcription errors or other problems; we are continuing to work to improve these archived versions.A long-awaited memorial dedicated at Kent State University on Friday symbolizes a desire to record what happened there 20 years ago, but the woman whose photographic image became an enduring symbol of that era would rather forget.The photograph was of Mary Ann Vecchio, then a 14-year-old runaway from the Miami area, kneeling in anguish beside the body of one of four students slain by Ohio National Guardsmen on May 4, 1970.The photograph won a Pulitzer Prize for John Filo, a student photographer who is now deputy picture editor at Sports Illustrated magazine.
 It became a classic image of the Vietnam War and its repercussions at home.She Sought SeclusionBut the photograph hounded Ms. Vecchio into seeking seclusion.
 Now a 34-year-old casino worker in Las Vegas, Nev., she told The Orlando Sentinel this week, ''It really destroyed my life, and I don't want to talk about it.
 ''She said she was not interested in discussing the new Kent State monument.
 ''Big deal,'' she said.
 ''It has nothing to do with my life.
 ''But her image cannot be separated from memories of that sunny afternoon.
 She was pictured with her arms raised, her face in a grimace, kneeling over the body of Jeffrey Miller, who had been shot in the mouth after lobbing a tear-gas canister back at guardsmen called onto the campus to control antiwar demonstrators.Ms.
 Vecchio later had a number of run-ins with the law, problems she said were caused by what the photograph came to symbolize.Big Burden for AdolescentMs.
 Vecchio's mother, Claire, interviewed in the house in Opa-Locka, Fla., where she reared Mary Ann and five other children, recalled some of Mary Ann's ordeal after the Kent State shootings.
 Claude Kirk, who was then Governor of Florida, ''said she was planted there by the Communists, and people wrote letters that she was responsible for murdering all those children,'' Mrs. Vecchio said.
 ''Can you imagine a 14-year-old girl having to deal with that?''Ms.
 Vecchio's father, Frank, a maintenance worker for the Dade County Port Authority who has since died, recognized his daughter's face in the photograph, traced her to Indianapolis and had her returned home.Later, Ms. Vecchio was sent to a juvenile home, and she was arrested for petty crimes like loitering and marijuana possession.
 The press hounded her, she said.Building a New Life''I've been miserable since Kent State,'' she said five years after the shootings.
 ''Not for any political reasons, but after all the publicity I've received, I feel the police have been unnecessarily harassing me.''Ms.
 Vecchio soon tired of the annual remembrances at the Kent State campus and refused to take part.She married a plumber from Kentucky in Las Vegas 11 years ago.
 It became a classic image of the Vietnam War and its repercussions at home.
 Now a 34-year-old casino worker in Las Vegas, Nev., she told The Orlando Sentinel this week, ''It really destroyed my life, and I don't want to talk about it.
 ''Big deal,'' she said.
 ''It has nothing to do with my life.
 Vecchio later had a number of run-ins with the law, problems she said were caused by what the photograph came to symbolize.
 Claude Kirk, who was then Governor of Florida, ''said she was planted there by the Communists, and people wrote letters that she was responsible for murdering all those children,'' Mrs. Vecchio said.
 Vecchio's father, Frank, a maintenance worker for the Dade County Port Authority who has since died, recognized his daughter's face in the photograph, traced her to Indianapolis and had her returned home.
 The press hounded her, she said.
 Vecchio soon tired of the annual remembrances at the Kent State campus and refused to take part.
 They live in a quiet, elm-shaded mobile-home park filled with retirees.
