Might you be the Glenna Hodge who testified this week about what's being taught at some elementary schools in Austin?
 If so, I'd like to directly connect for a PolitiFact Texas fact-check.From: Glenna HodgeSent: Friday, July 28, 2017 10:15 AM Yes I am.
 I am copying also Caryl Ayala and Jennifer Delgado who have records obtained from AISD.
 Also.
 Please go to www.texanonline.net and search archives for the Trojan Horse article which will bring you quickly up to speed.
 It includes sources.
 Thank you for your interest.
 The women copied here with me are on a mission to inform parents about this curriculum before school starts.
 They have a map from AISD which identifies the campuses where this is being taught now.
 --Glenna HodgeAttorney at Law and Governmental Affairs ConsultantSpicewood, TexasOn Tue, Aug 1, 2017 at 8:59 AM, Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin) wrote:I am still collecting information.
 I also wanted to share with you this emailed response we fielded yesterday from an AISD spokeswoman, Tiffany Young, who said we could attribute the text below to the district’s director of social and emotional learning, Peter Price: The SEL department has provided the Welcoming Schools professional development to 24 elementary school campuses at their request over the past three years.
 Welcoming Schools is not a curriculum, but a training for teachers to provide safe, supportive, inclusive environments for students and their families and to create a conversation among adults on campus to examine our language and practices.
 The training embraces family diversity, avoids gender stereotyping and prevents bullying.
 The principal is present for the six-hour training, which takes places throughout the year.
 A parent information letter is sent home at the start of the school year, and parents are invited to attend one of the modules.
 Teachers are not required to use nongender-specific pronouns.
 (Hodge)9:22 a.m.Aug.
 1, 2017What "language" and practices need to be examined, if "language" is not expected to be changed afterward.
 Caryl Ayala, copied here, was required to train in this module.
 You should interview her.
 She has personal knowledge.
 It might be good for you to obtain a copy of the AISD for a copy of the parent information letter.
 AISD reported the open records request by Jennifer Delgado to HRC, which then submitted a letter to Ken Paxton asking that their materials be withheld from production because their materials are proprietary.
 Paxton had 45 days to respond to HRC, that time period has passed, but we don't know what that response was.
 AISD still hasn't produced any records from this request.
 Will AISD be required to produce the public records or not?
 :MSIE|rv)[: ]([^\);]+)(\)|;)/.exec(a);if(Sa)return/WebKit\/(\S+)/.exec(a);if(Oa)return/(?
 :Version)[ \/]?
