CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2252 April 24, 2013 A nation was scattered around the world. To the Middle East, to Europe and to America. I speak to you in the language of the sur-vivors who came to America for freedom and 
made a new life. For almost a century, Turkey has denied the genocide. In the face of overwhelming evi-
denceŠmuch of it from American diplomats 
and journalistsŠAnkara has denied that the 
genocide ever happened. They want the world 
to forget. I speak to you in the language of those who were lost. Their voices drift across the dec-
adesŠbegging us to not forget them, no mat-
ter how hard some people try. I am not Armenian, but I speak to you in your language because on this day we are all 
Armenian. For many years I have sat with you 
and listenedŠto the stories of those who were 
lost in the genocide and those who survived. I speak to you in their language and yours to thank you for sharing your history with me 
and to pledge again that I will not stop fighting 
until the United States lives up to its principles 
by honoring and commemorating the Arme-
nian Genocide. And because I know that day will come. May it come soon, so the last of the survivors 
may hear its awesome sound. May God hear our voices. f PENN STATE UNIVERSITY 11TH ANNUAL EQUINE SCIENCE SHOW-
CASE AND QUARTER HORSE 
SALE The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5 minutes. Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, this coming weekend, I 
will have the opportunity and the 
honor to attend Penn State Univer-
sity™s 11th Annual Equine Science 
Showcase and Quarter Horse Sale. As a land-grant university, horses of various breeds have always been a part 
of Penn State™s Department of Dairy 
and Animal Science. As machinery re-
placed the draft horse, Penn State 
started the move towards the lighter 
horse types. Today, PSU focuses on the 
quarter horse for its diverse abilities, 
from working stock to show and recre-
ation. Quarter horses are estimated to 
generate more than $10.5 billion in eco-
nomic output nationally. This Saturday, 21 quarter horses will go on the auction block at Penn 
State™s popular Equine Science Show-
case and Quarter Horse Sale. The auc-
tion has grown with support from stu-
dents and people in the equine indus-
try, from 70 in the first auction to al-
most 500 last year. Mr. Speaker, I want to congratulate the 2013 sale™s participating Penn State 
students, student co-managers Jordy 
Hudson and Melissa Wise, and instruc-
tor of equine sciences and horse farm 
coordinator Brian Egan. f SEQUESTRATION™S EFFECTS The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. HOYER) for 5 minutes. Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, 7 weeks on, Americans have already begun to 
feel the effects of the Republican pol-
icy of sequestration. Sequestration defies common sense and is irresponsible. It is happening be-
cause the Tea Party faction of the Re-
publican Party is hell-bent on cutting 
spending, no matter what the con-
sequences, no matter how irrationally 
it is done, and no matter how adverse 
the consequences of these cuts. These arbitrary, across-the-board cuts to Federal programs without re-
gard to our priorities was never meant 
to be a solution, but rather, a deterrent 
to Congress failing to reach one. b1010 Since coming into effect on March 1, Americans are seeing why sequestra-
tion is not a policy we should follow or 
continue. This week, the FAA began 
furloughs for 47,000 employees. I™ve 
talked to the Secretary and I™ve talked 
to the Deputy Assistant Secretary. 
They do not have an option under the 
policies that this Congress has adopted. 
Thirteen thousand air traffic control-
lers are among those 47,000. Already, delays of up to 2 hours at major airports are disrupting travel, 
which impacts business and produces 
major headaches for American families 
trying to get to where they need to go. 
Some flights have been diverted be-
cause the air traffic control system is 
being overwhelmed with limited per-
sonnel. In addition to its effects on the FAA, sequestration is also placing a heavy 
burden on small business. According to 
an article in Politico on April 16Šjust 
a few days agoŠsmall businesses are 
being hit the hardest by sequestra-
tion™s cuts. The Small Business Admin-
istration is being forced to cut $16.7 
million in loan subsidies; those are guarantees. That means $16.7 million in 
loansŠcapitalŠnot available to small 
businesses. At the same time, the arti-
cle goes on to report as many as 956,000 
small business jobs could be at risk 
from sequestration as employers lay off 
their workers in anticipation of further 
cuts. We ought to abandon this stupid pol-icy. Also at stake are critical research programs in medicine and science re-
search that fuel American innovation 
and advance lifesaving treatments. 
They™re at risk because of sequestra-
tion. Cuts to the National Institutes of 
Health are already leading to a reduc-
tion in research grants, including tens 
of millions of dollars that will halt in-
novative genomics and cancer research 
at some of America™s top universities, 
including Harvard, Penn, and Johns 
Hopkins in my State. And the National 
Science Foundation will have to award 
1,000 fewer grants this year to research-
ers who are helping keep America on 
top of technology and innovation. How 
irrational. This is a stupid, harmful, future- hurting, and America-undercutting 
policy. It must be changed. Sequestration is also reducing our military readiness and putting civilian 
defense employees at risk of being fur-
loughed and, more to the point, putting 
at risk our own national security. 
Communities in my district across 
Maryland and throughout the country 
whose economies depend on a strong 
military are going to be hard hit. But the good news is there is an al-ternative. Congress has the power to 
end sequestration by reaching a big 
and balanced solution to deficits that 
can replace these irrational cuts. But 
to do so, Democrats and Republicans 
will have to work together in a bipar-
tisan way. We ought to go to con-
ference on the budget, adopt a fiscally 
responsible and balanced plan, and 
eliminate the sequester for this year 
and the 8 years to come. We offered an alternative to seques-ter four times in the last month, and 
four times we were not given the op-
portunity to have it voted upon on this 
floor. This was supposed to be open and 
transparent, and we would consider al-
ternatives. We did not. But I believe we 
can do it. Our economy, our ability to 
create jobs, and the success of our 
country in the decade ahead is depend-
ent on our jettisoning these irrational 
cuts we call sequestration. Too many jobs, lives, and livelihoods are at stake for Congress to engage in 
partisan games. As the weeks and 
months continue without turning se-
questration off, its effects will only get 
worse. Let™s act now. Let™s act together. Let™s act in a bipartisan way before our 
people and our businesses feel the full 
effects of this irrational and senseless 
sequestration policy. Let™s work to-
gether to achieve the big, balanced so-
lution the American people deserve 
from their Congress and that we owe to 
our country. I will submit an article for the RECORDwritten by our colleague, Rep-resentative DAVIDPRICEof North Caro-lina, entitled: ‚‚Lawmakers™ sequestra-
tion double-talk.™™ [From the Charlotte Observer, Apr. 23, 2013] LAWMAKERS™ SEQUESTRATIONDOUBLE-TALK (By U.S. Rep. David E. Price) Double-talk is never in short supply in Washington. But as the axe of ‚‚sequestra-
tion™™Šthe across-the-board spending cuts 
triggered by Congress™ failure to pass a long- 
term budget planŠbegins to fall, self-con-
tradiction and hypocrisy have reached 
heights unusual even for the Capitol. Indeed, many of the same Congress mem-bers who welcomed sequestration as a way to 
force the president to cut spending are now 
protesting loudly when their pet programs 
feel the pain. Members who voted for the 
package that Speaker John Boehner said in-
cluded ‚‚90 percent™™ of what Republicans 
wanted now claim that sequestration does 
not need to hurt very much and accuse the 
president of imposing cuts for political ef-
fect. The reality is that sequestration was de-signed to cut both deeply and indiscrimi-
nately. Although it barely touches the two 
main deficit driversŠtax expenditures and 
entitlement spendingŠit was supposed to be 
sufficiently draconian and unacceptable to VerDate Mar 15 2010 00:53 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00002Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\A24AP7.002H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2253 April 24, 2013 force action on those fronts, to compel agreement on a comprehensive budget plan 
along the lines of the 2010 Bowles-Simpson 
Commission proposal or the budget agree-
ments that produced four years of surpluses 
under President Bill Clinton. Congress failed to produce such a plan, however, because Republicans refused to 
consider increasing revenues or closing spe-
cial-interest loopholes. Today™s Republicans 
value their anti-tax ideology far more than 
the defense cuts that were supposed to drive 
them to the bargaining table. As sequestra-
tion approached, more and more of them 
said, ‚‚Bring it on.™™ Now that the cuts are coming, members are scrambling, sometimes to apply Band- 
Aids, sometimes to insist that the president 
spare programs they favor. One day there is 
an outcry about reduced meat inspections, 
on another an insistence that tuition bene-
fits for military personnel be restored, on an-
other that air-traffic controllers be kept on 
duty in little-used airports. The latest up-
roar started two days ago. Federal Aviation 
Administration furloughs of air traffic con-
trollers at large airports kicked in, delaying 
flights across the countryŠat Charlotte 
Douglas International Airport 31.2 percent of 
flights were delayed. My North Carolina col-
league, Rep. Renee Ellmers, recently intro-
duced a bill to reverse Medicare cuts for can-
cer treatment, calling the cuts an ‚‚unin-
tended consequence™™ of sequestration. In 
fact, the 2 percent cuts were an intended and 
easily anticipated consequence of sequestra-
tion. Congress has now passed appropriations bills for the remainder of 2013, locking in 
place the sequestration spending levels. 
Scattered provisions mitigate specific se-
questration impacts, but the result often is 
to shift the cuts to equally important areas 
that aren™t in the news at the moment. Fort 
Bragg, adjacent to my district, now faces a 
furlough of civilian employees and a 34 per-
cent cut in its operating budget. And seques-
tration comes on top of $1 trillion in cuts to 
domestic programs already adopted. To-
gether, these cuts have driven major disease 
research off a cliffŠfewer than 10 percent of 
proposals to fund heart disease, cancer and 
diabetes research are being fundedŠand 
slowed road and bridge construction to a 
snail™s pace. I want to mitigate the harm as much as any member of Congress. But damage con-
trol is not a viable budget policy. Sequestra-
tion is a self-inflicted wound, unworthy of 
those who profess to govern. It is hypo-
critical and misleading, having imposed in-
discriminate cuts on the administration, to 
pretend that the president can fix the prob-
lems with a flick of the wrist. The remedy lies in a comprehensive budget agreement that puts revenues and all cat-
egories of spending on the table. The presi-
dent™s budget reflects such an approach, 
going beyond the comfort zone of many of 
his political allies. A similar offer was 
spurned by Speaker Boehner and House Re-
publicans in December, and sequestration en-
sued. It is a failure of historic proportions 
and it must be reversed. f BAY COUNTY CENTENNIAL The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. STOCKMAN). The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Florida (Mr. 
SOUTHERLAND) for 5 minutes. Mr. SOUTHERLAND. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the place that I am 
proud to call home, Bay County, Flor-
ida. One hundred years ago today, Bay County was established by act of the Florida Legislature, igniting a century of growth and opportunity for a close- 
knit community that still cherishes its 
rich history and traditions. Bay County is located in the heart of northwest Florida, overlooking 41 
miles of sugar-white sand beaches 
along the gulf coast™s emerald green 
waters. With an additional 270 square 
miles occupied by pristine lakes, 
springs, streams, and the magnificent 
St. Andrews Bay, Bay County has be-
come a national destination for tour-
ists, families, fishermen, boaters, and 
water sports enthusiasts. While Bay County™s beaches and di-verse inland areas attract over 8 mil-
lion visitors each year, it is its people 
who live and work there that give this 
place a unique spirit. A small commu-
nity of little more than 11,000 people in 
1920, Bay County now embodies the 
drive of a diverse and growing popu-
lation, totaling more than 170,000 peo-
ple. Bay County™s workforce is among the best educated and most highly pre-
pared in northwest Florida, with insti-
tutions of higher learning that rival 
any in the region. Its economic engine 
is fueled not by tourism alone, but also 
by thriving small businesses, nation-
ally recognized companies, major man-
ufacturers, and one of the newer air-
ports in the United States. And, as the 
home of Tyndall Air Force Base, Naval 
Support Activity Panama City, and 
more than 22,000 veterans, Bay County 
enjoys a rich military history. On this day, April 24, 2013, the day of Bay County™s centennial, I am proud to 
join my friends, neighbors, my family, 
and local and county officials from 
Panama City, Panama City Beach, 
Lynn Haven, Springfield, Parker, 
Callaway, Mexico Beach, and the unin-
corporated areas of our county to cele-
brate our past and our bright future as 
we work hard to make Bay County a 
better place to live, work, and play. f SUDAN PEACE, SECURITY, AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2013 The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Massachusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN) for 5 minutes. Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, 10 years ago, crimes by the Government 
of Sudan against its own people in 
Darfur were just beginning. The world 
witnessed the burning of villages, poi-
soning of water, murder, rape, brutal 
assault, and the deliberate forced dis-
placement of entire villages by vio-
lence. In 2004, these acts were charac-
terized by the U.S. Government and 
Congress as genocide. For the past 6 years, the Inter-national Criminal Court has indicted 
and issued arrest warrants for Sudan™s 
high officials, military commanders, 
and militia proxies for multiple counts of war crimes and crimes against hu-
manity. In 2009 and 2010, President 
Omar al-Bashir himself was indicted by 
the ICC for war crimes, crimes against 
humanity, and genocide. International movements in support of the people of Darfur arose around 
the world, including a broad coalition 
here in the United States of religious, 
labor, peace, human rights, and stu-
dent organizations calling for an end to 
the genocide in Darfur. Between 2004 and 2007, Congress passed a series of bills limiting U.S. aid 
to Sudan and applying sanctions 
against Sudan for its atrocities in 
Darfur. b1020 In 2007, I visited refugee camps in eastern Chad filled with hundreds of 
thousands of men, women, and children 
who had fled the violence in Darfur. 
Each has a personal story of horror and 
violence. While I was there, the 
janjaweed crossed the border and at-
tacked two villages inside Chad, dis-
placing thousands of people in the des-
olate landscape and brutal heat of 
Sahel in the dry season. I witnessed 
with admiration the emergency re-
sponse mobilized within hours by U.N. 
and international humanitarian agen-
cies and NGOs to provide these newly 
homeless and traumatized people with 
water, food, shelter, immunizations, 
and medical care. I will never forget those people, those children. And I will never forget the 
caring of highly professional humani-
tarian aid workers who provided life-
saving support to these refugees under 
difficult and dangerous conditions. Khartoum continues its brutal cam-paign in Darfur, and there is no end in 
sight. Eric Reeves, who 10 years ago 
bravely brought to the world some of 
the very first photo and video images 
of the scorched-earth campaign taking 
place in Darfur, continues to document 
ongoing atrocities in the region. The 
primary targets continue to be civil-
ians from African tribal groups sur-
viving tenuously in the chaotic region. 
Eric is now on the faculty of Smith 
College in Northampton, Massachu-
setts, and I am very proud to be his 
Representative in Congress. Today, the violence and abuses of Darfur have expanded across Sudan. 
This February, the U.N. reported that 
over 1.5 million people have been dis-
placed or severely affected because of 
the violence in Darfur, Abyei, South 
Kordofan, and Blue Nile, including 
some 90,000 to 100,000 people newly dis-
placed in Darfur. For over 3 years, the Sudanese Gov-ernment has carried out aerial bomb-
ing and a scorched-earth campaign 
against civilians in the states of South 
Kordofan and Blue Nile under the pre-
text of battling armed insurgencies 
that operate in the area. The govern-
ment continues to deny the World Food 
Programme and other humanitarian 
and religious organizations access to 
South Kordofan and Blue Nile to help 
the thousands in desperate need of food 
and basic care. The U.N. High Commis-
sioner for Human Rights has stated 
that abuses by the Government of 
Sudan in these States may constitute VerDate Mar 15 2010 00:53 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00003Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\A24AP7.003H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2254 April 24, 2013 war crimes and crimes against human-ity. Mr. Speaker, there comes a time when we have to say enough is enough. 
That is why Congressmen FRANKWOLF, MIKECAPUANO, and I are reintroducing today the Sudan Peace, Security, and 
Accountability Act. Khartoum™s abuse of its own people is nationwide, and this bill focuses on 
Sudan as a whole. It requires a U.S. 
comprehensive strategy to end serious 
human rights violations in all of 
Sudan. It would provide genuine ac-
countability for persons who have com-
mitted or assisted in serious human 
rights abuses. The bill supports the as-
pirations of the Sudanese people for 
peace and democratic reform. It en-
courages other governments and indi-
viduals to end support and aid to the 
Government of Sudan. And it reinvigo-
rates genuinely comprehensive and sus-
tainable peace efforts to end Sudan™s 
multiple crises. We must send a clear message to Khartoum that the time for change is 
now, that these abuses must stop, and 
that peace and genuine participation in 
the future of Sudan are rights that be-
long to all of the people of Sudan, no 
matter their race, ethnic or tribal 
background, religion, or political affili-
ation. I urge all of my colleagues to join us on this legislation. It is past time to 
put an end to the pain, suffering, and 
genocide taking place in Sudan. It is 
time to support peace, security, and ac-
countability. SUDANPEACE, SECURITY, AND ACCOUNTABILITYACTOF
2013 SUMMARYOFLEGISLATION
 Purpose: The ‚‚Sudan Peace, Security and Accountability Act of 2013™™ would create a 
comprehensive U.S. strategy to end serious 
human rights violations in Sudan, provide 
genuine accountability for persons who have 
committed or assisted in serious human 
rights violations, support Sudanese aspira-
tion for democratic reforms, encourage other 
governments and persons to end support of 
and assistance to the government of Sudan, 
and to reinvigorate genuinely comprehensive 
and sustainable peace efforts that can end 
Sudan™s multiple crises. Background: 2013 marks ten years from the start of crimes in Darfur that the U.S. gov-
ernment found to constitute genocide. Pre-
vious legislation was passed to address the 
genocide in Darfur, but abuses have contin-
ued and expanded to other areas of Sudan. 
Aerial bombardment of civilian areas of 
South Kordofan and Blue Nile states and 
continued blocking of humanitarian relief by 
the Government of Sudan has led to over 
900,000 Sudanese in need of humanitarian aid. 
Violence and aid restrictions also remain in 
Darfur where some 130,000 people have been 
newly displaced in the first months of 2013 
alone. Reports by the UN and independent 
monitors have documented ongoing abuses 
by the Government of Sudan and those it 
supports that ‚‚may constitute war crimes 
and crimes against humanity™™. HIGHLIGHTSOFLEGISLATION
: Requires the Administration and all rel-evant agencies to work together and create a 
comprehensive strategic plan to end serious 
human rights violations, provide genuine ac-
countability for crimes committed in Darfur and other parts of Sudan, support the path for democratic transformation, and create 
peace throughout all of Sudan; Demands free and unfettered access for international humanitarian aid and, absent 
such agreement, requires the Administration 
to seek other mechanisms to mitigate the ef-
fects of lack of such humanitarian aid; Promotes free and transparent democratic reform in Sudan, including exploring tech-
nical support and funding for civil society 
and others seeking sustainable democratic 
change; Increases engagement with other stake-holders with influence in Sudan; Creates a broad-reaching sanctions regime to target any government or individuals 
whose support assists the Sudanese govern-
ment in committing serious human rights 
violations or who fail to execute inter-
national arrest warrants against Sudanese 
officials; Seeks more effective enforcement of exist-ing sanctions including adequate resources 
and personnel and extends to all of Sudan ex-isting sanctions regimes included in prior 
enacted legislation that were specific only 
for ‚‚Darfur™™; and Provides genuine accountability for crimes committed in Darfur and encourages other 
countries to expand international account-
ability efforts to include crimes committed 
in other regions in Sudan. [From Reuters, Apr. 12, 2013] SOME50,000 FLEESUDANINTOCHADAFTER DARFURCLASHES N™DJAMENA.ŠSome 50,000 Sudanese have fled into southeastern Chad in the past week 
following fresh tribal conflict in the restive 
Darfur region, U.N. and Chadian officials 
said on Friday. Melissa Fleming, a spokeswoman for the U.N. High Commission for Refugees, said the 
fighting had spread as each side received re-
inforcements from tribal allies and had be-
come more violent, with entire villages 
being razed. A total of 74,000 refugees had fled to Chad in the past two months, she said. ‚‚People are arriving wounded and telling us their houses are destroyed and their vil-
lages completely burned down, with many 
people killed,™™ she told a news conference in 
Geneva. The refugees have fled to an arid area along the Chad, Sudan and Central African 
Republic border. ‚‚The area they are arriving in is very re-mote. They left with nothing: there is no 
water, no food. They are sleeping under 
trees,™™ Fleming said, adding there was a risk 
of disease. General Moussa Haroun Tirgo, the gov-ernor of the Sila region of southeastern Chad 
where the refugees have fled, told Reuters 
that about 52 wounded had arrived since 
Thursday. ‚‚The situation is worrying given that the zone does not have enough medical infra-
structure,™™ Tirgo said. ‚‚We™re evaluating the 
needs with the help of NGOs but the situa-
tion is very serious.™™ Conflict has ravaged Sudan™s western Darfur region since 2003 when mainly non- 
Arab rebels took up arms against the Arab- 
led government, accusing it of politically 
and economically marginalizing the region. Violence has subsided from its peak in 2003 and 2004, but a surge has forced more than 
130,000 people to flee their homes this year, 
according to the United Nations. f OUR NATION™S MISSILE DEFENSE ISN™T A BARGAINING CHIP The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Ohio (Mr. TURNER) for 5 minutes. Mr. TURNER. Mr. Speaker, once again, President Obama and his admin-
istration have offered up America™s 
missile defense shield as a bargaining 
chip. Just the other week, Secretary of 
State John Kerry flew to China and of-
fered to remove our recently added de-
fenses in the Pacific to encourage them 
to counter the increasingly belligerent 
tone and actions by North Korea. This is the same failed strategy that the administration offered up to the 
Russians in exchange for them engag-
ing with Iran. If it failed to work then, 
how could it possibly work now? At a time when our missile defense system is the only defense that we 
have to the threat from North Korea 
and the emerging threats from Iran, I 
am greatly concerned that our Nation™s 
missile defense strategy is languishing. 
The end result is increased risk to the 
United States, increased cost to the 
taxpayer, and needless alienation of 
our allies. Our enemies around the world have sought nuclear weapons and missile 
technology, yet the Obama administra-
tion has consistently reduced missile 
defense funding, abandoned previous 
Bush administration strategies that 
sought to respond to these emerging 
threats, and has compromised the im-
plementation of current missile de-
fense programs. Meanwhile, they have 
sought elusive Russian, and now Chi-
nese, approval of the right of the 
United States to defend itself. Most recently, the administration has abandoned its own missile defense 
strategy, known as the ‚‚phased adapt-
ive approach,™™ in favor of a stopgap 
measure of finally placing the addi-
tional ground-based missiles in Alaska 
that they had previously canceled. I 
welcome the administration finally 
completing the missile field which it 
has attempted to close. Although, this 
reveals that they have no plan to rea-
sonably respond to the real and fore-
seeable threats from North Korea and 
Iran. This announcement leaves the United States without an articulated missile 
defense strategy. This deficiency is 
compounded by the effects of the ad-
ministration™s clumsy handling of our 
relationship with our NATO allies. The 
abrupt cancellation of the Bush admin-
istration missile defense commitments, 
coupled with the announcement of the 
abandonment of the President™s phased 
adaptive approach, have left our allies 
to stand alone in the face of domestic 
criticism and Russian opposition. Our relationship with the Polish Gov-ernment has yet to fully recover, and I 
am concerned that this administration 
may repeat the same relationship- 
straining affront with our Romanian 
allies. The President and his adminis-
tration must address the damage done 
to our relationships with our NATO al-
lies as a result of their failed missile 
defense strategies. In addition, I am concerned that the administration fails to recognize the 
significance of the emerging threats VerDate Mar 15 2010 03:24 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00004Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.006H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2255 April 24, 2013 from North Korea and Iran which places the United States at risk. The 
administration should inform Congress 
of the effects of the abandoned and 
failed Obama administration phased 
adaptive approach and of their plan to 
complete the Bush administration™s 
Alaska missile defense strategy. Further, since completion of the Alaska missile field alone is insuffi-
cient for the full protection of the 
United States, I am calling upon the 
administration to support the site se-
lection and completion of a United 
States east coast missile field to com-
plement the Alaska site. The world is not becoming a safer place. Offering to weaken our defenses 
in hopes of irrational nations sus-
pending their weapons programs is not 
an effective strategy to protect the 
United States. Simply put, these offers 
are of greater benefit to our adver-
saries than to the protection of the 
American people. They are to the det-
riment of the American people. f THE PASSING OF HELEN L. DOHERTY APRIL 17, 2013 The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. CHU) for 5 minutes. Ms. CHU. This month, the San Ga-briel Valley lost a wonderful leader, 
the Native American community lost a 
true champion, and I lost a dear friend. 
Helen Doherty wore many hats 
throughout her years of public service, 
but one thing remained constant 
among them all: she fought to make 
life better for those around her. All 
people were her family; all children 
were her children. Helen™s actions were always guided by the needs of younger generations. 
An educator at heart, she spent four 
decades in public school classrooms. 
She taught where she was needed 
mostŠwhere the value of a lesson 
learned would have the greatest im-
pactŠplaces like the Bridges Commu-
nity Day School, where she worked 
with young people who had worn out 
their welcome in the traditional school 
system through expulsion, drug use, or 
family problems. None of that 
mattered to Helen. What mattered was 
helping kids build a brighter future for 
themselves, one new lesson at a time. But being an educator meant more to Helen than teaching in schools. It 
meant being a good colleague as well. 
She was a devoted member of the Cali-
fornia Teachers Association and won 
their California Teacher in Politics 
award. Helen™s compassion for others led her to speak out and fight for those in 
need. Much of her activism was rooted 
in who she was as a member of the 
Cherokee Nation. She had personal in-
sights into the needs of Native Amer-
ican communities, and she fought tire-
lessly to have them addressed. By the 
time she was in college at UCLA, she 
had personally felt the pains of intoler-
ance directed at her and her heritage. b1030 Determined to change the wrong she faced, Helen boarded a bus and rode 
clear across the country to hear Martin 
Luther King deliver his ‚‚I Have a 
Dream™™ speech. That dream was her 
dream. His message was her message, 
and she fulfilled it each and every day 
for the rest of her life. Helen worked side by side with the Gabrielino Tribe to help them gain rec-
ognition and joined the Morongo Na-
tion in promoting human rights. She 
took those challenges and struggles 
that are unique to reservation life and 
raised awareness for solutions. Her efforts helped ensure those facing difficult conditions on reservation land 
had the education to build a brighter 
future. She held workshops on tribal 
lands to help people develop the skills 
needed to improve their quality of life, 
and she worked hard to ensure that 
textbooks in California accurately re-
flected the true history of the Native 
people. As her advocacy led to public 
service, Helen was a founder and chair 
of the Native American Caucus for the 
California Democratic PartyŠone of 
the first Native American caucuses for 
a State party. Helen left us not long ago, but her impact lives on. The lives she touched 
are forever changed for the better as 
are the communities she fought to em-
power. Her life™s work provides an in-
spiration for all of us. So, today, I bid 
farewell to a friend, a mentor, and a 
true role model to so many. And I say thank you for all that you™ve done for us, Helen Doherty. f UKRAINE The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. SHIMKUS) for 5 minutes. Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend the recent actions 
taken by the President of the Ukraine, 
Mr. Yanukovych. On April 7, President Yanukovych pardoned former Interior Minister 
Lutsenko, former Environmental Min-
ister Filipchuk, and four others. These 
pardons demonstrate Ukraine™s desire 
to integrate democratic policies and 
reform their justice system as the ex-
panding Eastern European nation con-
tinues its transition towards democ-
racy. This action is a concrete step in the right direction for President 
Yanukovych™s administration, but 
there remains much to be done in order 
for Ukraine™s judicial system to be con-
sidered in line with Western standards. 
This would include an end to all polit-
ical persecutions; and, today, I reit-
erate my call for the release of Ms. 
Yulia Tymoshenko, the former Prime 
Minister. I have long been a supporter of our Nation™s ability to assist new, emerg-
ing democracies as they develop the 
pillars for building successful and last-
ing governments. I am encouraged by these recent steps and hope that Ukraine continues on its path towards 
full European integration. The United 
States Government welcomes Presi-
dent Yanukovych™s decision to pardon 
Mr. Lutsenko and Mr. Filipchuk and 
hopes that such actions signal an end 
to the political persecution of other op-
position figures. f KEEP YOSEMITE TOURIST- FRIENDLY The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. MCCLINTOCK) for 5 min-utes. Mr. MCCLINTOCK. I rise today in strong opposition to a proposal by the 
National Park Service to remove long-
standing tourist facilities from Yosem-
ite National Park, including bicycle 
and raft rentals, snack facilities, gift 
shops, horseback riding, the ice skat-
ing rink at Curry Village, tennis courts 
and swimming pools, the art center, 
and the historic stone Sugar Pine 
Bridge. These facilities date back genera-tions and provide visitors with a wide 
range of amenities to enhance their 
stay at and their enjoyment of this 
world-renowned national park. To add 
insult to insanity, all of this comes 
with a quarter-billion-dollar price tag 
to American taxpayers. Mr. Speaker, Yosemite belongs to the American people, and the Park Serv-
ice™s job is to welcome them and ac-
commodate them when they visit their 
park, not to restrict and harass them. 
Indeed, Yosemite was set aside nearly 
150 years ago by legislation signed by 
Abraham Lincoln specifically for ‚‚the 
public use, resort and recreation for all 
time.™™ This proposal fundamentally 
changes the entire purpose for which 
Yosemite was set aside in the first 
place. Tourists don™t go where they™re not welcomed. Yosemite competes with 
thousands of vacation destinations; 
and the more inconvenient and un-
pleasant Park managers make it for 
Yosemite visitors, the fewer visitors 
they™re going to have. Now, that might 
be convenient to them, but it will dev-
astate the economy of all of the sur-
rounding communities whose econo-
mies depend upon tourism. The Park Service is attempting to justify this as a court-ordered response 
to the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. This 
is disingenuous. The settlement agree-
ment they refer to simply requires that 
a plan be adopted consistent with cur-
rent law. It does not mandate such rad-
ical changes in longstanding visitor 
services and amenities. Former Congressman Tony Coelho, who authored the act that designated 
the Merced under provisions of the 
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, has just 
released a strong letter condemning 
the proposal, saying in no uncertain 
terms: The Wild and Scenic Rivers Act was never intended to apply to the Merced River within VerDate Mar 15 2010 00:53 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00005Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.007H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2256 April 24, 2013 Yosemite National Park at all. The Merced River within Yosemite National Park is pro-
tected and regulated by the National Park 
Service and has never needed an overlay of 
inconsistent and confusing regulation. The 
Merced River in Yosemite Valley has been 
recreational for almost 150 years. Yosemite 
Valley has never been wilderness. Any plan 
which proceeds should not change any infra-
structure or ban any activities traditionally 
carried on in Yosemite Valley. Indeed, when Mr. Coelho authored the legislation designating the Merced 
as ‚‚wild and scenic,™™ these tourist fa-
cilities already existed, and nowhere in 
the bill™s findings is there any mention 
of an intention to force their closure or 
to override Park policies. In fact, many 
of the facilities slated for removal are 
not even on the Merced River and do 
not in any way impede or affect its 
flow. The officials of the National Park Service are clearly not required to 
take these actions. It™s becoming in-
creasingly apparent that they want to 
take them and that they intend to take 
them despite widespread public opposi-
tion from all but the most radical ele-
ments of the environmental left. In-
deed, when 13 members of the Cali-
fornia congressional delegation, includ-
ing liberal Democrats and conservative 
Republicans alike, asked for an exten-
sion of the public comment period, the 
Park Service grudgingly extended it by 
only 12 days. It is obvious that Park officials have already made up their minds and are 
merely walking through the formali-
ties. I believe that this matter and re-
lated issues of public access cry out for 
a congressional investigation. In the meantime, if members of the public want to protest the elimination 
of many of Yosemite Valley™s tourist 
amenities and iconic landmarks, their 
time is running out. My Web site, at 
mcclintock.house.gov, provides guid-
ance on how people can protest this ac-
tion, and I strongly urge them to do so. f THE MAJORITY™S DEFLATING AGENDA The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
New York (Mr. CROWLEY) for 5 minutes. Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, the 113th Congress has been in session for 
over 100 days; and so far, the majority 
has attacked worker protections, 
slashed important job-training pro-
grams, and has created one manufac-
tured fiscal cliff after another. This is the last week before yet an-other recess, but there is still no pro-
posal to help Americans get back to 
work. Instead, we have another attack 
on the Affordable Care Act. Plus, we 
have on the floor today the Responsible 
Helium Administration and Steward-
ship Act. I, in fact, had a balloon, Mr. 
Speaker, that I would have liked to 
have had on my wrist as I gave this 
speech this morning, but I was told it 
would not be appropriateŠand maybe 
not. But helium? Helium? Really? I hate to burst the majority™s bubble, but Democrats and Republicans actu-
ally agree on this bill. There was no 
need to take up a full day of our time 
to debate the bill. We could have con-
sidered it under the expedited proce-
dures and saved time for proposals that 
created jobs instead of balloons. With 
leadership like this, it™s no wonder the 
American people are feeling discour-
aged and deflated. Helium? Helium. f MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT A message in writing from the Presi-dent of the United States was commu-
nicated to the House by Ms. Wanda 
Evans, one of his secretaries. f RECESS The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair 
declares the House in recess until noon 
today. Accordingly (at 10 o™clock and 40 minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess. f b1200 AFTER RECESS The recess having expired, the House was called to order by the Speaker at 
noon. f PRAYER Archbishop Oshagan Choloyan, Ar-menian Apostolic Church of America, 
New York, New York, offered the fol-
lowing prayer: In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Almighty God, we seek Your holy guidance in all our endeavors, espe-
cially in the deliberations of our lead-
ers in this noble body, because strong 
and wise leadership is essential for the 
well-being of nations. Today, we are mindful of another April 24Š98 years ago, the beginning of 
the genocide of the Armenians in the 
Ottoman Empire, the first genocide 
among so many that followed in the 
20th century. We beseech You, O Lord, to bless this land of America and its people. Em-
power them to continue serving Your 
goodness as they did when they shel-
tered the remnants of the Armenian 
nation. Give Your children wisdom, love, and compassion that they may live and 
prosper with the gifts of Your SpiritŠ 
justice, truth, freedom, and righteous-
ness. Your name will be praised forever 
and ever. Amen. f THE JOURNAL The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-ined the Journal of the last day™s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House 
his approval thereof. Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-nal stands approved. f PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman from California (Mr. VALADAO) come forward and lead the House in the 
Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. VALADAO led the Pledge of Alle-giance as follows: I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. f WELCOMING ARCHBISHOP OSHAGAN CHOLOYAN The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr. 
CICILLINE) is recognized for 1 minute. There was no objection. 
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, as the Representative for Rhode Island™s First 
Congressional District, which is home 
to many Armenian American families, 
I am honored to rise today in order to 
thank His Eminence, Archbishop 
Oshagan Choloyan, for offering our 
opening prayer and for recognizing the 
98th anniversary of the start of the Ar-
menian genocide. A native of Aleppo, Syria, Arch-bishop Choloyan was first ordained 
into the priesthood in 1967. He attended 
the American University of Beirut 
where he majored in history and later 
received two master™s degrees from the 
Princeton Theological Seminary. Since 
1998, Archbishop Choloyan has served 
as the prelate of the Eastern Prelacy of 
the Armenian Apostolic Church of 
America and has focused his efforts on 
strengthening local faith communities 
under his jurisdiction. On behalf of the Armenian commu-nity in my home State of Rhode Island, 
I am honored to welcome the arch-
bishop here today and to join him in 
remembering the victims of the Arme-
nian genocideŠthe systematic exter-
mination of Armenians living under 
the Ottoman Empire in the early 20th 
century. I join members of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues in urging 
that our government finally recognize 
the Armenian genocide as a historical 
fact. f ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. POE of Texas). The Chair will entertain 15 
further requests for 1-minute speeches 
on each side of the aisle. f THE CANCER DRUG COVERAGE PARITY ACT (Mr. HIGGINS asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) Mr. HIGGINS. Mr. Speaker, Amer-ica™s biomedical research industry is VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:15 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00006Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.009H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2257 April 24, 2013 the envy of the world, but the health insurance model is not keeping pace 
with the science. For cancer patients, 
this means that smart drugs purchased 
at a pharmacy and self-administered 
orally are dramatically more expensive 
than traditional chemotherapy admin-
istered at a hospital or at a clinic. This makes no sense. That is why I have joined with a broad coalition of 
the cancer community to reintroduce 
the Cancer Drug Coverage Parity Act. 
This bill would require health insur-
ance coverage for smart drugs and 
injectable treatments at the same rate. 
Ensuring that parity coverage exists 
would both increase access to life-sav-
ing treatments and improve the qual-
ity of life for cancer patients. Mr. Speaker, a cancer patient should never be denied the most effective can-
cer treatment because of cost. We must 
make sure that coverage for cancer 
treatments keeps pace with the prom-
ising new therapies as they become 
available. f THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION™S FAILURE TO STOP TERRORISM 
IN THE UNITED STATES (Mr. COTTON asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.) Mr. COTTON. I rise today to express grave doubts about the Obama admin-
istration™s counterterrorism policies 
and programs. Counterterrorism is 
often shrouded in secrecyŠas it should 
be. So let us judge by the results. In barely 4 years in office, five jihadists have reached their targets in 
the United States under Barack 
Obama: the Boston Marathon Bomber, 
the Underwear Bomber, the Times 
Square Bomber, the Fort Hood shooter, 
and, in my own State, the Little Rock 
recruiting office shooter. In over 7 years after 9/11, under George W. Bush, how many terrorists 
reached their targets in the United 
States? Zero. We need to ask: Why is the Obama administration failing in its mission to 
stop terrorism before it reaches its tar-
gets in the United States? f CURBING GUN VIOLENCE IN AMERICA (Mr. DEUTCH asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.) Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, it was President John F. Kennedy who fa-
mously said, ‚‚Do not pray for easy 
lives. Pray to be stronger men.™™ Last week, some members of the United States Senate took the easy 
way out when they voted down the 
most basic measures to curb gun vio-
lence in America. Today, I ask my friends and col-leagues in this body, Democrats and 
Republicans alike, to pray for the cour-
age to stand with the American people and to refuse to accept the profound failure of the United States Senate. 
For the parents of those children lost 
in Newtown and for the families of the 
nearly 86 Americans who die of gunshot 
wounds every day, there are no easy 
days. Doing what™s right, like stopping criminals from buying weapons online 
and cracking down on illegal gun traf-
ficking, will not cost anyone a vote at 
the ballot box, for the American people 
know that these measures don™t threat-
en the Second Amendment; they only 
protect the rights of all Americans to 
life, liberty, and the pursuit of happi-
ness. Mr. Speaker, too many lives have been lost, and too many lives are on 
the line not to get something done. f 98TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ARMENIAN GENOCIDE (Mr. VALADAO asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) Mr. VALADAO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today on the 98th anniversary of the 
initiation of the Armenian genocide in 
order to commemorate a moment in 
history inflicting wounds still fresh for 
many constituents in my congressional 
district. From 1915 to 1923, the Ottoman Em-pire engaged in the systematic and or-
ganized deportation and extermination 
of over 2 million Armenians from their 
homeland. Although exact records were 
not kept, it is estimated that nearly 1.5 
million Armenian men, women, and 
children were killed and that many 
were permanently displaced or forced 
to flee. These horrific events have be-
come known today as the Armenian 
genocide. Many of those able to flee emigrated to the United States and settled in 
California. Today, their families con-
tinue to grow, thrive, and pass along 
their cultural heritage into their 
adopted communities. However, the 
sense of loss as a result of these hor-
rific acts runs deep as many Armenian 
Americans personally know a friend or 
a family member who was unable to es-
cape the genocide. Despite the horrors of this time and broad international consensus that 
these events are rightly identified as 
‚‚genocide,™™ the foreign policy of the 
United States refuses to acknowledge 
what so many already know to be true. 
Today, let us recognize and remember 
the 2 million Armenians whose lives 
were lost or forever changed by these 
tragic events. f b1210 IMMIGRATION REFORM (Mr. VARGAS asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) Mr. VARGAS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of comprehensive immigration 
reform, and I especially want to thank the faith communities. In particular, I want to thank the evangelical churches 
that were here last week. There were over 300 either pastors or members of their church here, and I 
would like to read some of the things 
they had to say from the Christian 
Post. Over 300 evangelicals rep-
resenting 25 States gathered in the Na-
tion™s Capitol Wednesday for worship, 
prayer, and meeting with Members of 
Congress in an effort to bring about 
comprehensive immigration reform. ‚‚We™re here to say that immigration reform has strong evangelical sup-
port,™™ said the Reverend Gabriel 
Salguero. There were a number of very impor-tant pastors here along with Dr. Rich-
ard Land, pastor and also a member of 
the Southern Baptist Convention. Pastor Kenton Beshore writes this, describing how ministries and the 
church have worked with children in 
his community who are living without 
a parent due to immigration laws that 
have broken apart their families: ‚‚This 
has to change.™™ The pastor is correctŠthis has to change. I want to thank all the faith commu-nities. They are united to make sure 
that we have a comprehensive immi-
gration reform that reflects our values, 
and I™d like to thank them. f ENSURING THE SAFETY OF THE MEN AND WOMEN WHO SERVE US (Mr. ISSA asked and was given per-mission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.) Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, the House just recently released a five-separate 
committee report requested by the 
Speaker of the House on the aftermath 
of Benghazi. It tells the American peo-
ple a story that needs to be told and 
has not yet been completed. The story 
is that we did not protect our people in 
Benghazi. The Embassy asked for more secu-rity. Secretary Clinton cabled back, 
‚‚No,™™ in April of 2012. On the very day, 
September 11, that the Ambassador 
was killed along with three of his col-
leagues, he said: It is not a question of if, but when this at-tack will come. Today, Congress has not yet seen a plan that ensures this will never hap-
pen again. The safety of our men and 
women all over the world in the State 
Department and other agencies needs 
to be assured. Mr. Speaker, the House needs to ad-dress this in a way that we can have 
confidence that people who serve us 
abroad will be properly protected. f STUDENT LOAN RELIEF ACT (Mr. COURTNEY asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:15 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00007Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.012H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2258 April 24, 2013 Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, 1 year ago tomorrow marks the anniversary 
of the Federal Reserve Board reporting 
that student loan debt exceeded $1 tril-
lion. What that means for the average 
student loan borrower in America is a 
debt level of $27,000. That™s just the av-
erage. Many students graduate, sadly, 
with debt levels of six figures. Despite the fact that we have that looming burden on middle class fami-
lies all across the country, in 67 days 
the Stafford student loan program in-
terest rate will double from 3.4 percent 
to 6.8 percent, adding even further in-
terest debt to students unless Congress 
acts. Mr. Speaker, I™ve introduced H.R. 1595, the Student Loan Relief Act, with 
my colleague in the Senate, Senator 
JACKREEDŠwe have 95 cosponsors in the HouseŠwhich will extend the lower 
rate for 2 years and give this House 
time to come up with a comprehensive 
solution for higher education access 
and affordability, which, again, extends 
back to giving students better informa-
tion for when they enter college and 
helping those who graduated in terms 
of allowing them to refinance. It is time, however, to pass the ex-tension of the lower rate. Let™s not go 
backwards. Let™s help middle class 
families all across America. f BUDGET CONFEREES (Mr. BERA of California asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute.) Mr. BERA of California. It™s core to our job, Mr. Speaker, to pass a respon-
sible budget. That™s job number one. A 
budget tells us how we™re going to be 
stewards of the taxpayer resources. One of my first acts in Congress was to cosponsor the No Budget, No Pay 
Act. We now have a budget that the 
House has passed; we have a different 
budget that the Senate has passed; and 
the President has submitted his budg-
et. It is now time for us to go to con-
ference. Mr. Speaker, I ask you to appoint conferees so we can get a real budget 
and start moving this country forward. 
That is core to our job. We must 
produce a budget in order to start ad-
dressing our debt and deficit and mak-
ing sure that the public understands 
what our priorities are. Mr. Speaker, now™s the time to act. I ask that you appoint conferees, and 
let™s get this country moving forward. f JOBS, JOBS, JOBS (Ms. WILSON of Florida asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute.) Ms. WILSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it™s now been 843 days since I arrived in 
Congress, and the Republican leader-
ship has not allowed a single vote on 
serious legislation to address our un-
employment crisis. At the current rate of job growth, we will not get to pre-recession unemploy-ment levels until after 2020. This means another decade of people losing their 
health care, losing their homes, and 
losing their dignity. Where is the outrage? Congress is delaying America™s recov-ery and making their plight worse by 
pursuing destructive policies like the 
sequester instead of productive policies 
like the President™s American Jobs 
Act. The American Jobs Act deserves a vote. Mr. Speaker, the American people are looking to you to address the only 
deficit that matters right now: our jobs 
deficit. It™s time for a vote on a serious 
jobs bill. Our mantra here in Congress should be: jobs, jobs, jobs. f THE VIRGIN ISLANDS AND THE KENTUCKY DERBY (Mrs. CHRISTENSEN asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
her remarks.) Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. Mr. Speaker, 2 weeks ago I came to the floor to con-
gratulate Virgin Islands jockey Kevin 
Krigger on his Santa Anita win and 
qualifying for the Kentucky Derby. 
Kevin will be riding Goldencents co- 
owned by Rick Pitino and trained by 
Doug O™Neill. Since then, another Virgin Islands jockey, Victor Lebron, riding Frac 
Daddy, co-owned by Carter Stewart 
and Ken Schlenker and trained by Ken 
McPeek, has also qualified. They are making history, and the en-tire Virgin Islands is gearing up to 
cheer wildly for them on May 4 as they 
make a ‚‚Run for the Roses.™™ Another Virgin Islander, Gareem Nicholas, is an assistant trainer for 
Derby-bound horse It™s My Lucky Day. As a person who grew up in a horse racing family and who has always fol-
lowed the sport, I could not be prouder 
than to see my young men riding and 
training in such a prestigious event, 
and I hope to be there to witness it. Although there have been many peo-ple who have had a role in the success 
of the young Crucian jockeys who 
began their career on the Randall Doc 
James Racetrack in my home island of 
St. Croix, I again congratulate their 
parents Averill Simmonds and Albert 
Krigger, Jr., and Reina and Victor 
Lebron, Sr. The name Julio Felix also 
stands out as a mentor of theirs and 
many other young Virgin Island jock-
eys. I wish both jockeys luck in their maiden runs at the Kentucky Derby, 
but they and Nicholas are already win-
ners to me and in the eyes of their fel-
low Virgin Islanders. f GMO LABELING (Ms. GABBARD asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) Ms. GABBARD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight an issue that™s very important to me, to my constituents in Hawaii, as well as to people all across 
the country. I™ve long been a supporter of requir-ing labeling for food containing geneti-
cally engineered, or GE, products. Food 
is a basic necessity in our everyday 
lives, and people have a right to know 
what™s in the food we™re eating. Today I™m joining a strong coalition, led by Senator BOXERand Congressman DEFAZIO, to introduce the Genetically Engineered Food Right-to-Know Act, 
which requires labeling of GE foods. The Food and Drug Administration already requires labeling of more than 
3,000 ingredients, additives, and proc-
esses, but it has resisted labels for GE 
foods. Changing this outdated policy 
would simply add GE foods to that ro-
bust list, which would not be cost pro-
hibitive for companies or consumers. More than 1.5 million Americans have filed comments with the FDA urg-
ing it to label GE foods, while surveys 
show more than 90 percent of people 
also support it. Our legislation puts consumers first and empowers them to make informed 
choices for themselves and their fami-
lies. f b1220 HARMFUL EFFECTS OF SEQUESTRATION (Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 minute and 
to revise and extend her remarks.) Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it has now been 
more than 7 weeks since the sequestra-
tion cuts were enacted, and we are in 
new and unprecedented territory. Fur-
lough notices have already been sent to 
thousands of Federal employees and 
contractors, and many services are be-
ginning to slow. While many of the 
worst consequences of the sequester 
have not yet been realized, the truth is 
that the wheels have been set in mo-
tion, and we are on a course that will 
have real impacts for millions of Amer-
icans. As a result of employee furloughs, more than 1,200 flights were delayed 
yesterday because 1,500 air traffic con-
trollers were laid off the job. Because 
of the Republican majority™s refusal to 
address the effects of sequester sen-
sibly, the FAA estimates that a third 
of the passengers will face delays dur-
ing the furloughs, with up to 6,700 
flights arriving late at more than a 
dozen major airports each day. Beyond crippling our government™s ability to provide critical services, the 
Republican sequestration plan is slow-
ing the economic growth that our 
country so desperately needs. In short, Republicans are putting the ability of our government to fully perform basic gov-
ernment functions that we need to keep us 
safe at risk. We need to work on an approach that will fix sequestration while reducing our deficit 
sensibly. VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:15 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00008Fmt 7634Sfmt 9920E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.013H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2259 April 24, 2013 We need to come to a compromise that will prevent these indiscriminate cuts, and keep 
our economy on track and growing. f ADDRESSING GUN VIOLENCE (Mrs. DAVIS of California asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute.) Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speak-er, over 100,000 victims of gun violence 
last year, many of them children. What 
has this House done to prevent other 
children from being added to this trag-
ic tally? Nothing, Mr. Speaker. Abso-
lutely nothing. Ninety percent of Americans support effective background checksŠ90 per-
cent. So when does this Chamber, the 
people™s House, work for the 10 per-
cent? Opponents have said that back-
ground checks will not stop every inci-
dence of gun violence. Well, true. They 
would, unfortunately, not stop all fu-
ture acts of gun violence, anymore 
than other laws stop all illegal behav-
iorŠbut it would stop some. It would 
save the lives of some of our children. 
It would be all of us saying we have a 
moral duty to ensure that those pur-
chasing handguns are not an estab-
lished threat to our families, and it 
would be the start of a comprehensive 
approach to protecting our families. Congress plays politics on so many issues. Let™s not play politics with the 
lives of so many innocent Americans. f APPOINT BUDGET CONFEREES (Mr. KILDEE asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, my con-stituents and the American people de-
serve a budget. One of our principal du-
ties in Congress is to pass a budget. 
Yet Congress has already missed the 
legal deadline this year because the 
Republican leadership has not yet ap-
pointed conferees to continue budget 
deliberations. Yesterday, I joined many of my col-leagues in signing a resolution calling 
on the GOP leadership to appoint con-
ferees to a conference committee to 
continue working on the fiscal year 
2014 budget. After years of calling for regular order and for the Senate to pass a 
budget, which they did in March, I now 
find it ironic that Republicans are 
dragging their feet and stalling budget 
negotiations by refusing to appoint 
conferees. We certainly have differences of opin-ion regarding budget priorities, Mr. 
Speaker; but that™s no excuse for con-
tinued dysfunction and delay. I ask you to appoint conferees today, and let™s work to find a bipartisan com-
promise on a budget. Democrats stand 
ready to act to pass a budget that 
grows our economy, creates jobs, 
strengthens the middle class, and re-
places the reckless, across-the-board 
sequester cuts. UNIVERSAL BACKGROUND CHECKS (Ms. KUSTER asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) Ms. KUSTER. Mr. Speaker, I would like to read into the RECORDa letter that I received today from a 7-year-old 
in my district: Dear Congresswoman Kuster. My name is Noah Dutille. I am a second grader at Plym-
outh Elementary School. I am hoping that 
you will help make sure no other kids are 
hurt by guns. Thank you for your service. 
Sincerely, Noah. In my district, 90 percent of my con-stituents support universal background 
checks, including 75 percent of those 
who are members of the National Rifle 
Association. Mr. Speaker, 6.5 million 
guns sold each year in the United 
States are sold by unlicensed private 
sellers, including online and gun show 
sales, and 40Œ50 percent of all gun sales 
have no criminal background check. In 
fact, a recent national survey of in-
mates revealed that 80 percent of those 
who used a handgun in a crime ac-
quired it through a private transfer. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of Noah and all of the families in my district, I ask 
that we schedule a vote to keep our 
families safe. f BUDGET CONFERENCE COMMITTEE (Mr. PAYNE asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.) Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, repeatedly, Republicans have reprimanded Senate 
Democrats, claiming budget negotia-
tions have stalled because the Senate 
has failed to pass a budget. Now, Sen-
ate Democrats have done their part. 
Republican leaders in the House must 
do the same by convening a conference 
committee to resolve our budget dif-
ferences openly and honestly. That is a 
procedure that the Congress has always 
followed. That is regular order. The best interests of the American people shouldn™t have to sit on the 
back burner any longer. Unemploy-
ment remains too high, wages are stag-
nant, and sequestration is taking its 
toll. We need to address our country™s 
challenges and create jobs, reduce the 
deficit, and strengthen our middle class 
while creating ladders of opportunity 
for those to climb into the middle 
class. These are our top priorities. Some-times these priorities get lost in the 
shuffle of partisan bickering. I urge Re-
publican leadership to follow regular 
order and create a conference com-
mittee now. f COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM (Mr. YARMUTH asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Speaker, oppo-nents of comprehensive immigration reform will do anything to stop progress in today™s world. Now they™re 
using the terrorist attacks in Boston 
to somehow draw some connection be-
tween those events and the problems 
that really plague our immigration 
system. There is no connection, but 
problems still remain. We still have to secure our borders. We still have to make sure that em-
ployers are only employing legal Amer-
icans. We still have 11 million undocu-
mented people in this country. We 
don™t know why they™re here or who 
they are. We still need seasonal work-
ers for many economic activities. We 
still need highly skilled workersŠengi-
neers and techniciansŠsome of whom 
have been trained here but cannot 
work here. We still have people over-
staying their visas, and we still have 
the problem that we need to increase 
the flow of immigration to stimulate 
our economy. Delaying immigration reform will only weaken our economy and make us 
less safe. It is much better that we 
know everyone who is in our country, 
why they™re here, and make sure 
they™re paying taxes and contributing 
to American society. We need to pass 
immigration reform now. f GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE (Mr. MORAN asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.) Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, earlier this month, I and 19 of my colleagues 
wrote to the Energy and Commerce 
Committee urging them to engage us 
in a debate on the House floor as to 
what our national policy should be in 
response to climate change. That re-
quest has been met with silence, but 
that™s a more preferable response than 
the 53 votes that the House undertook 
during the last session to block the 
Obama administration from using its 
existing authority to address climate 
change. In fact, for the year 2012, when this House voted to overturn a scientific 
finding that, in fact, climate change 
was occurring, we experienced the 
warmest year on record. More than 
half of this Nation™s counties were de-
clared Federal disaster areas, due 
mostly to drought, but also to extreme 
weather events. We experienced the 
second worst year of extreme weather 
events. In fact, Hurricane Sandy cost 
the Federal Government more than $65 
billion and took the lives of 147 Ameri-
cans, and we experienced the third 
worst year for wildland fires; more 
than 9 million acres were burned. These severe temperatures and ex-treme weather events we are experi-
encing all fit the predictive pattern of 
global climate change. Our failure to 
take action dooms future generations 
to ever more powerful and destructive 
weather events, altered coastlines, 
more devastating droughts and VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:15 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00009Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\A24AP7.007H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2260 April 24, 2013 wildland fires, and greater food scar-city. It™s time to take action on cli-
mate change. f b1230 ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair 
will postpone further proceedings 
today on motions to suspend the rules 
on which a recorded vote or the yeas 
and nays are ordered, or on which the 
vote incurs objection under clause 6 of 
rule XX. Record votes on postponed questions will be taken later. f NATIONAL BASEBALL HALL OF FAME COMMEMORATIVE COIN 
ACT AMENDMENT Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 1071) to specify the size of the 
precious-metal blanks that will be used 
in the production of the National Base-
ball Hall of Fame commemorative 
coins. The Clerk read the title of the bill. 
The text of the bill is as follows: H.R. 1071 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America 
in Congress assembled, SECTION 1. SIZE OF PRECIOUS-METAL BLANKS. Section 3(a) of the National Baseball Hall of Fame Commemorative Coin Act (Public 
Law 112Œ152) is amendedŠ (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ‚‚have™™ and inserting ‚‚be struck on a planchet hav-
ing a™™; and (2) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ‚‚have a™™ and inserting ‚‚be struck on a planchet 
having a™™. The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-ant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. BACHUS) and the gentle-woman from Alabama (Ms. SEWELL) each will control 20 minutes. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Alabama. GENERALLEAVE
 Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days within which to 
revise and extend their remarks and 
submit extraneous materials for the 
RECORDon H.R. 1071. The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Alabama? There was no objection. 
Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1071, introduced by our col-
league from New York (Mr. HANNA), along with Mr. DOYLEand Mr. GIBSON, two other Representatives from the 
State of New York. This is a two-line amendment of the most technical sort. It amends the Na-
tional Baseball Hall of Fame Com-
memorative Coin Act, sponsored by Mr. 
HANNAand Mr. DOYLE, and passed last year by this Congress. The legislation calls for the Mint to strike and issue 
next year™s coins in commemoration of 
the Hall of Fame™s 75th anniversary. The coin will be domed, Mr. Speaker, the first of that kind ever done by the 
Mint. As they did the technical work of 
preparing to produce the coin, the Mint 
discovered that using a standard coin 
blank and stamping the center part 
into a dome drew the edges of the coin 
inward a few thousandths of an inch; 
not a big deal, but enough to be out of 
spec with the finished size of the coin 
designated in the legislation. To avoid making a coin not in com-pliance with the law, or having to pur-
chase expensive custom coin blanks, 
this bill simply eliminates the require-
ment for the finished size and speci-
fication that the coins be struck on 
standard commemorative coin blanks. 
The result will be a less expensive coin 
and less work for the Mint. This is truly a technical amendment, Mr. Speaker. I urge its quick passage. With that, I reserve the balance of my time. Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1071. The bill corrects the specification 
of the precious metal blanks to be used 
by the U.S. Mint in making the Na-
tional Baseball Hall of Fame coins 
which Congress authorized last term. 
This correction will result in a cost 
savings, permitting the U.S. Mint to 
implement the design specifications 
using standard-sized blanks and 
produce the coins by January 2014, the 
required deadline. Last Congress, I voted in favor of minting the National Baseball Hall of 
Fame commemorative coin. Proceeds 
from the coin will go to the National 
Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, 
New York, to help fulfill its mission of 
preserving history, honoring excel-
lence, and connecting generations 
through the rich history of our na-
tional pastime. One of the most popular exhibits at the Hall of Fame is that of Jackie Rob-
inson, who broke the color barrier in 
1947, bringing his amazing skills from 
the Negro League to win Rookie of the 
Year his first year. He led the Brook-
lyn Dodgers to 6 pennants in 10 sea-
sons, including their own World Series 
in 1955. He was the 1949 National 
League Most Valuable Player. Jackie 
Robinson was elected to the Hall of 
Fame in 1962, after his phenomenal ca-
reer. Most importantly, he showed tre-
mendous grace and poise as he inte-grated the major leagues and served as 
an inspiration to so many of us in gen-
erations to come. The number he 
woreŠ42Šas a Brooklyn Dodger has 
been retired in his honor, and no other 
ball player can wear that number 
again. Baseball is also a wonderful pastime in my own district of Birmingham, 
Alabama, where we have a minor 
league team, the Birmingham Barons, 
and enjoy the baseball. I ask for passage of H.R. 1071 and urge my colleagues to approve this bill. I reserve the balance of my time. 
Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from New York (Mr. HANNA), who is the sponsor of this legislation. Mr. HANNA. I thank the chairman emeritus for yielding and for his strong 
support of the National Baseball Hall 
of Fame commemorative coin bill. Mr. Speaker, the United States Mint is working hard to produce spectacular 
coins next year honoring the National 
Baseball Hall of Fame™s 75th anniver-
sary. As called for in the legislation I au-thored in last year™s Congress, the coin 
will be unique in the history of the 
Mint. It will be domed, with the back 
of the coin depicting stitches that ap-
pear on a major league baseball. In doing the production work, the Mint discovered that the work to make 
the coin domed would make the fin-
ished coin slightly smaller than the 
standard finished commemorative coin. 
I am pleased the Mint has brought this 
to our attention and asked that we do 
a technical amendment to allow them 
to use standard coin blanks, instead of 
having to secure expensive custom 
ones. Since all production costs of com-memorative coins are passed on to the 
consumer, this will keep the cost of 
these coins down for baseball fans 
around the world who want to com-
memorate 75 years of collecting, dis-
playing, and honoring our national pas-
time. Mr. Speaker, this is a good bill that actually saves money and effort, and I 
urge its immediate passage. Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, I yield back the balance of my time. Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. GIBSON). Mr. GIBSON. I thank the gentleman for yielding. And it™s a great privilege 
to rise today in support of this bill. I™m proud to represent Cooperstown in upstate New York, home of the 
Baseball Hall of Fame. Baseball, Amer-
ica™s pastime, is something that unites 
us and I think also something that en-
genders hope throughout our country, 
the feeling that we all have in April, 
the possibility that our team could go 
all the way and win the World Series, 
something, indeed, that unites us. A coin is a fitting way to honor the Hall of Fame and also help our efforts 
for tourism in central New York. And 
this bill and this coin are able to do all 
that at no cost to the taxpayer. I might also say that this competi-tion where we now have children from 
across the country that are involved in 
this competition to provide the best de-
sign is, I think, going to kindle even 
more support for baseball. And so I 
urge my colleagues to support the bill. I thank Mr. HANNAfor his leadership and the chairman for the opportunity 
to speak this morning in support of it. Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I want to commend my New York colleagues for VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:15 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00010Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.026H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2261 April 24, 2013 bringing this bill. Obviously, those of us who visited Cooperstown, it™s a won-
derful place, and I can really think of 
no better way to start the celebration 
of the 75th anniversary than to go view 
the film, ‚‚42,™™ about Jackie Robinson. b1240 Baseball has a rich history. It has a history, as with other sports, of bring-
ing people together, putting aside their 
personal, emotional, or ideological dif-
ferences. It is a wonderful movie and a 
lesson for all of us. With that, I yield back the balance of my time. The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by 
the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. 
BACHUS) that the House suspend the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1071. The question was taken; and (two- thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was 
passed. A motion to reconsider was laid on the table. f AWARDING CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL TO ADDIE MAE COLLINS, 
DENISE MCNAIR, CAROLE ROB-ERTSON, AND CYNTHIA WESLEY Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 360) to award posthumously a 
Congressional Gold Medal to Addie 
Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole 
Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley to com-
memorate the lives they lost 50 years 
ago in the bombing of the Sixteenth 
Street Baptist Church, where these 4 
little Black girls™ ultimate sacrifice 
served as a catalyst for the Civil 
Rights Movement, as amended. The Clerk read the title of the bill. 
The text of the bill is as follows: H.R. 360 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-resentatives of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, SECTION 1. FINDINGS. The Congress Finds the following: 
(1) September 15, 2013 will mark 50 years since the lives of Addie Mae Collins, Denise 
McNair, Carole Robertson, and Cynthia Wes-
ley were suddenly taken by a bomb planted 
in the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church in 
Birmingham, Alabama. (2) The senseless and premature death of these 4 little Black girls sparked ‚‚The Move-
ment that Changed the World.™™ (3) On that tragic Sunday in September of 1963, the world took notice of the violence in-
flicted in the struggle for equal rights. (4) The fact that 4 innocent children lost their lives as they prepared for Sunday 
School shook the world™s conscience. (5) This tragedy galvanized the Civil Rights Movement and sparked a surge of mo-
mentum that helped secure the passage of 
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and later the 
Voting Rights Act of 1965 by President Lyn-
don B. Johnson. (6) Justice was delayed for these 4 little Black girls and their families until 2002, 39 
years after the bombing, when the last of the 
4 Klansmen responsible for the bombing was 
charged and convicted of the crime. (7) The 4 little Black girls are emblematic of so many who have lost their lives for the cause of freedom and equality, including Vir-gil Ware and James Johnny Robinson who 
were children also killed within hours of the 
1963 church bombing. (8) The legacy that these 4 little Black girls left will live on in the minds and hearts 
of us all for generations to come. (9) Their extraordinary sacrifice sparked real and lasting change as Congress began to 
aggressively pass legislation that ensured 
equality. (10) Sixteenth Street Baptist Church re-mains a powerful symbol of the movement 
for civil and human rights and will host the 
50th anniversary ceremony on Sunday, Sep-
tember 15, 2013. (11) It is befitting that Congress bestow the highest civilian honor, the Congressional 
Gold Medal, in 2013 to the 4 little Black girls, 
Addie Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole 
Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley, post-
humously in recognition of the 50th com-
memoration of the historical significance of 
the bombing of the Sixteenth Street Baptist 
Church. SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL. (a) PRESENTATIONAUTHORIZED.ŠThe Speaker of the House of Representatives and 
the President Pro Tempore of the Senate 
shall make appropriate arrangements for the 
presentation, on behalf of Congress, of a gold 
medal of appropriate design to commemo-
rate the lives of Addie Mae Collins, Denise 
McNair, Carole Robertson, and Cynthia Wes-
ley. (b) DESIGNAND
STRIKING.ŠFor purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection 
(a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred 
to in this Act as the ‚‚Secretary™™) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, 
devices, and inscriptions to be determined by 
the Secretary. (c) AWARDOF
MEDAL.ŠFollowing the award of the gold medal described in sub-
section (a), the medal shall be given to the 
Birmingham Civil Rights Institute in Bir-
mingham, AL, where it shall be available for 
display or temporary loan to be displayed 
elsewhere, as appropriate. SEC. 3. DUPLICATE MEDALS. The Secretary may strike and sell dupli-cates in bronze of the gold medal struck 
under section 2, at a price sufficient to cover 
the costs of the medal, including labor, ma-
terials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead 
expenses, and amounts received from the 
sale of such duplicates shall be deposited in 
the United States Mint Public Enterprise 
Fund. SEC. 4. STATUS OF MEDALS. (a) NATIONALMEDALS.ŠThe medals struck under this Act are national medals for pur-
poses of chapter 51 of title 31, United States 
Code. (b) NUMISMATICITEMS.ŠFor purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United 
States Code, all medals struck under this 
Act shall be considered to be numismatic 
items. The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-ant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. BACHUS) and the gentle-woman from Alabama (Ms. SEWELL) each will control 20 minutes. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Alabama. GENERALLEAVE
 Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days within which to 
revise and extend their remarks and 
submit extraneous materials for the 
RECORDon this legislation. The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Alabama? There was no objection. Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 4 minutes. Mr. Speaker, it™s an honor to manage this bill and to have worked with my 
colleague and the sponsor of this legis-
lation, Congresswoman TERRISEWELL, who is the driving force behind this 
legislation. She™s worked tirelessly to 
bring this bill to the floor, and it has 
come to the floor with bipartisan sup-
port. Through her work, and those of 
many Members on both sides, including 
the Alabama delegation, we™re proud 
that this bill has 296 Members as co-
sponsors. The bill, as the title reflects, post-humously awards a Congressional Gold 
Medal that recognizes these four little 
African American girls. Their pictures 
are on the floor of the House. You can 
see their very tender age. Their lives 
were cut short by a bombing of the Six-
teenth Street Baptist Church in Bir-
mingham on September 15, 1953. Many 
trace this decisive and heinous act to 
an impetus for a passage of the histor-
ical Civil Rights Act of 1964. There was 
a national revulsion caused by the 
deaths of these innocent lives, the cal-
culated bombing in a place of worship. 
It was, indeed, a sad day for the entire 
country. It can correctly be said that 50 years ago my hometown found itself the epi-
center of the civil rights movement. 
The images of conflicts and violence 
from Birmingham that flickered na-
tionally on what were still predomi-
nantly black-and-white TV screens 
shocked the conscience of the Nation 
and, I believe, most citizens of Ala-
bama. During the recent Faith and Politics Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimage 
to Alabama, a large bipartisan delega-
tion of Members viewed some of the 
historic sites in Birmingham. We were 
led on the pilgrimage by my friend and 
Congresswoman SEWELL™s friend, Con-gressman JOHNLEWIS, who, from per-sonal experience, spoke authoritatively 
about those years. As we know, he was 
beaten many times himself. The Sixteenth Street Baptist Church is still a vibrant place of worship. Just 
a few months ago, we stood in a mo-
ment of silence in remembrance of the 
haunting act of evil that occurred 
there a half century ago. Churchgoers gathered peacefully on that beautiful fall morning, as they 
faithfully did every Sunday, to praise, 
pray, and worship. In fact, 26 children 
were making their way to the down-
stairs assembly room to prepare for a 
sermon, entitled, ‚‚The Love That For-
gives,™™ when the bomb went off. The 
four little girls, whose pictures are on 
the floor of the HouseŠAddie Mae Col-
lins, Denise McNair, Carole Robertson, 
and Cynthia WesleyŠwere almost in-
stantly killed. Looking at those faces now, they speak as strongly to me on the House 
floor today as they did to newspaper 
readers and television viewers at the 
time of the bombing. As a Congress and VerDate Mar 15 2010 03:24 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00011Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.018H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2262 April 24, 2013 a country, our eyes were opened and we were shocked enough to finally pass 
civil rights legislation affirming that 
the rights and protections of the U.S. 
Constitution do not depend on what 
color your skin happens to be. The civil rights struggle was long and hard, filled with both sorrow and 
joy. There™s a special place in history 
and in our hearts for all of those who 
were killed and injured in Birmingham. I reserve the balance of my time. 
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, I yield myself 5 minutes. Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure to join my colleague, SPENCERBACHUS, as we begin consideration of our bill, H.R. 
360. I am proud to have had the entire 
Alabama delegation, Representatives 
BONNER, ADERHOLT, ROGERS, ROBY, and BROOKS, as well as Alabama natives Representatives LEWISand BISHOP, join me as original cosponsors on this legis-
lation. I am also thankful for the lead-
ership of both parties, Speaker BOEH-NER, Leader PELOSI, Majority Leader CANTOR, Whips HOYERand MCCARTHY, as well as Financial Services Com-
mittee Chairman HENSARLINGand Ranking Member WATERS, for their support and leadership. I also want to 
thank the more than 296 Members of 
Congress who cosponsored this bill. H.R. 360 requests that Congress be-stow its highest civilian honor, the 
Congressional Gold Medal, to Addie 
Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole 
Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley, who 
tragically lost their lives during the 
bombing of the Sixteenth Street Bap-
tist Church in 1963. These beautiful 
girls never got a chance to live out 
their promise, but their lives were not 
in vain. As Dr. King said at their fu-
neral, ‚‚They are the martyred heroines 
of a holy crusade for freedom and 
human dignity.™™ At 10:23 on Sunday, September 15, 1963, amid high racial tensions, a bomb 
went off in the Sixteenth Street Bap-
tist Church as people gathered to wor-
ship for Sunday. The explosion killed 
four little girls who were in the base-
ment bathroom preparing to return for 
Sunday school. Twenty-two people 
were injured by the blast, including the 
younger sister of Addie Mae Collins, 
Sarah, who survived but lost her eye. The senseless deaths of four little girls shocked the Nation and became a 
galvanizing force for the passage of the 
Civil Rights Act of 1964. But, Mr. 
Speaker, justice was long delayed be-
cause it wasn™t until 37 years later, on 
May 18, 2000, that all four Ku Klux Klan 
members who planted the bomb were 
finally brought to justice for their 
crimes. These innocent girls lost their lives much too young. Addie Mae Collins, 14, 
was a reserved and sweet little girl. 
She liked for people to be at peace 
around her, they said. Denise McNair, 11 years old, was a loving and friendly child who already 
exhibited a take-charge and generous 
spirit, helping others as she went along 
the way. Carole Robertson, 14, was a vivacious young girl who was an avid reader and 
played the clarinet in the band. Cynthia Wesley, 14, was an honor stu-dent who enjoyed playing the saxo-
phone in her school band. That fateful 
Sunday was going to be her first day 
serving as an usher in church. Although there are many individuals and events of the civil rights move-
ment that rightfully are worthy of rec-
ognition, the selection of the four little 
girls was emblematic of so many who 
sacrificed and lost their lives for the 
cause of freedom. b1250 Medgar Evers, Emmett Till, Jimmy Lee Jackson, as well as Virgil Ware 
and James Johnny RobinsonŠwho was 
also killed within hours of the 1963 
bombingŠthey were all martyrs for 
justice whom we should never forget. It 
was their blood which was shed for the 
bounty that so many of us now enjoy. While we recognize that this medal cannot in any way replace the lives 
lost nor the injuries suffered as a result 
of the horrific bombing, I hope this 
medal serves as a powerful reminder of 
the importance of the many sacrifices 
made and the great achievements ob-
tained so that this Nation could live up 
to its ideals of equality and justice for 
all. This Nation should never forget those who marched, those who prayed 
and died in the pursuit of civil rights 
and social change. It is my sincere 
hope that their families will receive 
this highest civilian honor in the hum-
ble spirit in which it was intended. I am delighted today to be joined by the sisters of Denise McNair and Carole 
Robertson, and the president of the 
Birmingham Civil Rights Institute, 
who are all in the gallery as witnesses 
to this debate today. Mr. Speaker, I want to urge my col-leagues to vote in favor of this legisla-
tion in honoring the lives of these four 
girls as we pay tribute to their families 
and recognize the enormous progress 
that we as a Nation have obtained. The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired. Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, I yield myself 1 additional minute. This recognition is long overdue, and I am grateful to this body for its con-
sideration during this 50th anniversary 
year. Dr. King offered the best rationale for granting this Gold Medal in the eu-
logy that he made at their funerals. He 
poignantly acknowledged: History has proven over and over again that unmerited suffering is redemptive. The 
innocent blood of these girls may well have 
served as a redemptive force that will bring 
new light to this dark city. The Holy Scrip-
ture says, ‚‚A little child shall lead them.™™ 
The death of these little children may lead 
our whole Southland from the low road of 
man™s inhumanity to man to the high road of 
peace and brotherhood. I urge my colleagues to support this Gold Medal bill so that this country 
can finally recognize the redemptive force that the deaths of these four girls made in bringing light to a dark Na-
tion. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-bers are reminded that it is not in 
order to draw to the attention of the 
House occupants in the gallery. Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I now yield 2 minutes to my friend, the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. SCHOCK). Mr. SCHOCK. Mr. Speaker, in March, I had the honor to join my friends from 
Alabama in traveling to Birmingham 
as part of the 13th annual Congres-
sional Civil Rights Pilgrimage. I was 
joined by my esteemed colleague, Con-
gressman JOHNLEWISof Georgia, who led the delegation to numerous land-
marks that defined the civil rights 
movement at the time, including the 
tragedy that occurred at the Sixteenth 
Street Baptist Church. The legislation we are considering today comes 50 years after the sense-
less death of four young girls when a 
bomb exploded in their church one 
Sunday morning in September of 1963. Less than a month before this bomb-ing, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., stood 
on the steps of the Lincoln MemorialŠ 
not far from where I stand today in the 
House ChamberŠand declared that he 
dreamed of a day where all people 
could coexist and thrive together in 
peace and justice. The echo of his call 
for peaceful protest was still fresh in 
the mind of millions when it was re-
placed by the violent explosion at the 
Sixteenth Street Baptist Church, which injured dozens and killed the 
four innocent girls. Addie Mae Collins, 
Denise McNair, Carole Robertson, and 
Cynthia Wesley did not live to see Dr. 
King™s dream realized, but their tragic 
deaths catalyzed the civil rights move-
ment and produced a backlash against 
these unthinkable acts of violence 
across the country. As we have seen in recent tragedies, acts of violence often produce the op-
posite outcome than that desired by 
the perpetrators. Less than 1 year after 
the bomb went off at the church, the 
Civil Rights Act passed out of this very 
Chamber and became law in 1964. A 
year later, in 1965, this Chamber passed 
and put into law the Voting Rights 
Act. Today, the House continues to act. The legislation before us awards the 
Congressional Gold MedalŠwhich is 
the highest civilian honor given by 
CongressŠto the four girls whose sac-
rifice advanced the march of freedom 
in this country. Their memory is right-
ly recognized by those who love justice, 
and it is befitting that we should honor 
them with the highest recognition. I am proud to support this legislation and urge my colleagues to do the same. Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, I yield 2 minutes to the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. WATERS). Ms. WATERS. I rise today in support of H.R. 360. The bill posthumously honors the lives of Addie Mae Collins, Denise VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:15 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00012Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.021H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2263 April 24, 2013 McNair, Carole Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley who were tragically lost 50 
years ago in the bombing of the Six-
teenth Street Baptist Church in Bir-
mingham, Alabama. The horror of this 
senseless act of violence stunned the 
Nation and served as a catalyst for the 
civil rights movement. I would like to thank my colleagues on the Financial Services Committee, 
especially Congresswoman TERRISE-WELLand Chairman Emeritus SPENCER BACHUS, for their work to ensure that these girls receive our highest civilian 
honor as we commemorate the 50th an-
niversary of their deaths. The Sixteenth Street Baptist Church was not an accidental bombing target 
for the perpetrators. Rather, members 
of the Ku Klux Klan deliberately tar-
geted the church, designing their at-
tack to strike fear into the hearts of 
those seeking equal rights. The church 
was a known sanctuary for civil rights 
leaders, including Dr. Martin Luther 
King, the Southern Christian Leader-
ship Conference, and the Congress on 
Racial Equality which had become in-
volved in a campaign to register Afri-
can Americans to vote in Alabama. On that fateful morning of Sep-tember 13, 1963, roughly 1 month after 
the March on Washington, the girls 
went to Sunday school to hear a ser-
mon entitled ‚‚The Love that Forgives™™ 
when the bomb exploded, killing them 
and injuring many others. The bombers 
had hidden under a set of cinder block 
steps on the side of the church, tun-
neled under the basement, and placed a 
bundle of dynamite under what turned 
out to be the girls restroom. The cruelty and violence of this act shocked the Nation and drew inter-
national attention to the violent strug-
gle for civil rights, inspiring a wave of 
legislative action in Congress. By 1964, 
Congress had passed the Civil Rights 
Act, a landmark achievement in the 
fight to outlaw discrimination. By 1965, 
Congress had passed the Voting Rights 
Act, which aimed to eliminate voting 
restrictions that unjustly disenfran-
chised qualified voters. I thank you, Ms. SEWELL, for your leadership on this issue and helping 
this Nation to remember what took 
place on that day. Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I now yield 1 minute to the distinguished ma-
jority leader, the gentleman from Vir-
ginia (Mr. CANTOR). Mr. CANTOR. I thank the gentleman. 
Mr. Speaker, I™m honored to stand before the House today in support of 
this award to honor Addie Mae Collins, 
Cynthia Wesley, Carole Robertson, and 
Denise McNair by awarding them the 
Congressional Gold Medal. The 50th anniversary of the attack on the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church in 
Birmingham is a strong reminder of 
how many people fought and died in 
the civil rights movement so that this 
country could live up to its founding 
ideals of equality and opportunity. On a recent trip to Selma, Alabama, I had the opportunity to stand shoulder to shoulder with Congressman JOHN LEWISand other civil rights heroes who stood on the front lines and fought to 
change America for the better. We 
must never forget the hardships they 
confronted and sacrifices they made. While reflecting on such moments in our history, and by honoring those who 
come before us, I look forward to con-
tinuing to focus on ways in which we 
all can stand together once again and 
continue to solve our Nation™s prob-
lems and move forward in unison. I would like to thank Congress-woman SEWELL, Congressman BACHUS, and the rest of the Alabama delegation 
for their hard work on this matter and 
bringing it forward. Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman 
from South Carolina (Mr. CLYBURN), my mentor and a great leader. Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 360. This timely 
legislation will provide for the post-
humous awarding of the Congressional 
Gold Medal to Addie Mae Collins, 
Denise McNair, Carole Robertson, and 
Cynthia Wesley. These four precious 
girls were killed in the bombing of the 
Sixteenth Street Baptist Church in 
Birmingham, Alabama, 50 years ago 
this year. b1300 1963 was a pivotal year in the strug-gle for civil rights in our Nation. It 
marked 100 years after the Emanci-
pation Proclamation and was the year 
of Martin Luther King, Jr.™s, stirring 
‚‚Letter from Birmingham City Jail,™™ 
which sounded the call for nonviolent 
civil disobedience to counter oppres-
sion in the Jim Crow South. In that 
letter, Dr. King famously proclaimed: Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. Mr. Speaker, as a veteran of those ef-forts, I know that the struggle for jus-
tice, empowerment, and equal oppor-
tunity for all continues to this day. The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired. Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. I yield the gentleman an additional 30 seconds. Mr. CLYBURN. I want to thank my colleague, Representative TERRISE-WELL, for her leadership in this out-standing effort. Representative SEWELL has quickly made her mark in this in-
stitution for her tireless devotion to 
duty and her thoughtful approach to 
legislating. I am proud to join her in 
this effort and urge all of my col-
leagues to support this legislation. Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I now yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. BONNER). Mr. BONNER. Mr. Speaker, this is the right thing to do at the right time 
and for the right reasons. Hopefully, in 
some small way, this legislation will 
bring some form of closure to a cow-
ardly act, one so outrageous that it be-
came a turning point in the passage of 
the historic Civil Rights Act of 1964. On behalf of the people of Alabama, I want to say a special thank you to our colleague, Congresswoman TERRISE-WELL, as well as the dean of our delega-tion, Congressman SPENCERBACHUS, for their example of working together 
hand in hand to bring this very appro-
priate bill to the floor for consider-
ation and for a vote. While nothing that we do here will ever replace the loss of these four inno-
cent young girls, especially to their 
families and to their loved ones who 
have lived with a void in their hearts 
for the last 50 years, may this action 
today ensure that their spirit lives on 
forever. With that, I urge the adoption of this bill. Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, I yield 1 minute to the distin-
guished leader of the Democratic 
Party, the gentlelady from California 
(Ms. PELOSI). Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank our distinguished colleague, Congress-
woman SEWELL, for yielding. As you can see, there are many of us who are very eager. Our distinguished 
Democratic whip, Mr. HOYER, and I have had the privilegeŠhe, more than 
IŠto travel to Alabama with JOHN LEWIS. And thank you this morning for informing the Members that that™s a 
transformative experience. Anybody 
who travels there and sees what hap-
pened in the lifetime of many of us 
here, and certainly in the lifetime of 
everyone™s parents here, in our very 
own country cannot help but be moved. 
So I™m pleased to be joining you, Con-
gresswoman SEWELL, Mr. BONNER, Mr. BACHUS, Mr. HOYER, Mr. BISHOP, and other colleagues in coming to the floor. Mr. Speaker, as we are all acknowl-edging, 50 years ago, on a Sunday 
morning, four precious little girls 
walked into the Sixteenth Street Bap-
tist Church in Birmingham, Alabama, 
the same day they did every week. These four little girls were there for Sunday school. They were not civil 
rights activists; they were not agi-
tators or advocates. They had simply 
come to church to learn, to pray, to be 
with their friends and classmates. 
When you visit there, you see they 
didn™t really have a chance. They were 
in such close quarters when they went 
down those steps and the rest. These four little girls did not enter the church seeking to become symbols 
of the struggle of equality; yet, in a 
moment of brutal, horrific, unspeak-
able tragedy, they would become icons 
of a movement for justice. The names 
Addie Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Car-
ole Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley re-
main seared in the hearts and minds of 
us today as painful reminders of a dark 
moment in our history. For their families, for their friends, for their loved ones, their loss in a 
bombing at the Sixteenth Street Bap-
tist Church would change their world 
forever. Yet even at that time of great 
change across our country, little did 
we know that their deaths would 
change our world forever too. Among the many milestones of the civil rights movement, September 15, VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:15 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00013Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.023H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2264 April 24, 2013 1963, may be bestowed with some of the greatest pain and anguish. But it was 
on that day, as this resolution states: The world took notice of the violence in-flicted in the struggle for equal rights. It was that day that stirred the con-science of our Nation, galvanized the 
forces of justice, and spurred the mo-
mentum to pass the Civil Rights Act 
and the Voting Rights ActŠlandmark 
steps in righting the wrongs in our 
country™s past. It was on that day that the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church became a sym-
bol in the cause of human rights and 
human dignity, from the streets of Bir-
mingham to communities nationwide. 
It was that day that once again rein-
forced what Dr. Martin Luther King, 
Jr., just weeks earlier, called the 
‚‚fierce urgency of now.™™ These four girls made the ultimate sacrifice in the battle for civil rights, 
joining too many fellow Americans in 
paying for freedom with their lives. This weekend, I will join the South-ern Poverty Law Center to rename and 
rededicate the Civil Rights Memorial 
in Montgomery, Alabama. This memo-
rial is a tribute to 40 individuals killed 
during the struggle. It is a place to re-
member the fallen, to take heed of 
their message, to deepen our under-
standing, and to renew our commit-
ment to equal rights under the law. They were four small little children going to churchŠfour students, four 
daughters, four members of a tight- 
knit community in Birmingham. Four 
lives ended too soon; four victims to 
the forces of hatred and prejudice, rac-
ism, and injustice. Their senseless and 
premature deaths ignited the fires of 
progress and fanned the flames of 
equality. I thank the gentlelady, one of our new, not brand-new, but newer Mem-
bers of Congress, for coming here and 
joining with colleagues Mr. BACHUS, Mr. BONNER, certainly JOHNLEWIS, and Members of Congress not representing 
Alabama, but from Alabama. As the 
resolution that she presents declares, 
the legacy that these four little Black 
girls left will live in the minds and 
hearts of all for generations to come. To honor that legacy, to cherish their memories, to inscribe their 
names once more in the pages of his-
tory, it is only fitting to bestow our 
highest civilian honor, the highest 
honor that Congress can bestow on a 
civilian, the Congressional Gold Medal, 
on these four Americans. That will be a 
glorious day in the Capitol when we all 
come together under the rotunda, 
under the dome of the Capitol, to re-
member them. I hope that is a comfort 
to their families. They gave so much. 
So much sprang from that, and we will 
always remember. Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I now yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. ADERHOLT). Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to join my colleagues, as men-
tioned, in support of H.R. 360, and to 
honor the memory of Addie Mae Col-lins, Denise McNair, Carole Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley, who lost their 
lives at the Sixteenth Street Baptist 
Church in Birmingham. What we do here today honors these four innocent young girls, whose lives 
were sacrificed in an act of hatred and 
of violence. And no doubt their deaths, 
as has been mentioned, marked a sig-
nificant turning point in the civil 
rights movement of the 1960s. As Congressman BACHUSmentioned in his opening remarks, these four 
young girls, who ranged in age from 11 
to 14, were walking into the basement 
of the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church 
to hear a sermon that was ironically 
entitled, ‚‚The Love That Forgives.™™ 
Though they could not have known at 
the time, these four little girls changed 
the course of history for our Nation. 
Addie Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Car-
ole Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley™s 
young lives were cut short on Sep-
tember 15, 1963, but their legacy still 
lives on today, especially with what we 
do here, by the Congressional Medal of 
Honor, which is America™s highest ci-
vilian honor. b1310 I want to thank my colleague Ms. SE-WELLfor her leadership on this bill, and I am a proud supporter of H.R. 360. 
I also thank Mr. BACHUSfor this time to speak on the legislation. Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, I now yield 2 minutes to the distin-
guished Democratic whip, my dear 
friend, the gentleman from Maryland 
(Mr. HOYER). Mr. HOYER. I thank Congresswoman SEWELLfor her leadership and for yielding this time, and I thank my 
good friend SPENCERBACHUSfor his leadership as well, and I congratulate 
him and his family for the courage 
they showed at a time of great stress that this Gold Medal reflects. Mr. Speaker, the recognition for the victims of this terrible tragedy that be-
fell our whole country on September 
15, 1963, is absolutely appropriate, and 
it is an opportunity for us to say once 
again the respect we have for these 
young girls, the respect we have for 
their families. I say ‚‚our whole coun-
try™™ because a wound opened in the 
soul of America that day from a hei-
nous act of racism and terror. Those who set a bomb inside the Six-teenth Street Baptist Church that Sun-
day did so because they believed in a 
Nation where not all are created equal, 
where not all are entitled to life and 
liberty. On that day, many Americans 
who had turned away with indifference 
could no longer look away. Since that day, we have forcefully de-clared to future generations that 
America will not be that Nation that 
looks away. In America, we strive to 
protect our children from hurt and 
harm no matter the color of their skin, 
their faith, their national origin. We 
hold fast to the values and memory of 
these four little girls who were killed 
that day, not the twisted, warped, 
hateful ideals of their killers. The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired. Mr. BACHUS. I yield the gentleman an additional 2 minutes. Mr. HOYER. Their names have been mentioned but warrant re-mentioning: 
Addie Mae Collins, Cynthia Wesley, 
Carole Robertson, and Denise McNairŠ 
four of God™s children, four beautiful 
assets of America. If you go down into the basement of the church, you see their pictures, you 
see the memorialŠand your heart 
cries. They were brutally murdered 
while attending Sunday school, as the 
leader, SPENCERBACHUS, and as TERRI SEWELLhave related. My colleagues, let us honor their lives and their faith in the face of the 
evil of segregation and prejudice and 
hate. Let us remember the words of Dr. 
Martin Luther King, Jr., from the fu-
neral of three of those four little girls. 
He said this: They have something to say to each of us in their death. Their death says to us that 
we must work passionately and 
unrelentingly for the realization of the 
American Dream. That fight began with the Declara-tion of Independence: that we hold 
these truths to be self-evident, that all 
menŠand, surely, Jefferson meant 
mankind, women as wellŠare endowed 
by God, not by the Constitution and 
not by our votes on this floor, with cer-
tain unalienable rights, that among 
these are life, liberty and the pursuit of 
happiness. These four little girls had those robbed that day. Let us recommit our-
selves. Let us recommit ourselves to 
that proposition and to unrelentingly 
and courageously ensure that that 
dream, that that promise is fulfilled for 
all of the little children of this Nation 
and for all the adults as well. Let us pass this bill, Mr. Speaker, and send a message that we will never, 
ever forget their memory. The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-tlewoman from Alabama has 512min-utes remaining. The gentleman from 
Alabama has 1012minutes remaining. Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I would like to acknowledge and thank Mr. 
HOYERfor his recognition of my fa-ther™s role, of our family™s. I am very 
proud of my father and the courage he 
showed. At this time, I yield 212minutes to the esteemed chairman of the Finan-
cial Services Committee, the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. HENSARLING). Mr. HENSARLING. I thank the gen-tleman for yielding. I rise in strong support of H.R. 360 to posthumously bestow Congress™ highest 
civilian honor to Addie Mae Collins, 
Cynthia Wesley, Carole Robertson, and 
Denise McNair. I also want to commend my two col-leagues on the Financial Services Com-
mitteeŠMs. SEWELLand our chairman emeritus, Mr. BACHUS, both from Ala-bamaŠfor bringing this bill before the 
House. Mr. Speaker, I was a mere child when these innocents were murdered. I am VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:15 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00014Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.024H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2265 April 24, 2013 no longer a child, but I™m the father of two small childrenŠa 9-year-old and an 
11-year-old. I cannot imagine the un-
speakable horror of knowing that my 
children were in church and that one of 
the great acts of evil known in our Na-
tion™s history could be perpetrated 
upon them. That act 50 years ago jarred millions in our Nation to the realization that 
racial prejudice and hatred had just 
manifested itself in pure, unimaginable 
evil. Within a year, this body had 
passed the 1964 Civil Rights Act. In his eulogy for these four little girls, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., said: These childrenŠunoffending, innocent and beautifulŠwere the victims of one of the 
most vicious, heinous crimes ever per-
petrated against humanity. Yet, they died 
nobly. They are the martyred heroines of a 
holy crusade for freedom and human dignity. I certainly cannot add to the words of this great American hero, martyred 
himself. I will just end by saying, Mr. Speak-er, it is a good and right thing that this 
body honor these innocent children 
martyrs, that we never forget, that we 
always confront evil, and although our 
Nation was founded on noble prin-
ciples, we must never cease the work of 
making America a more perfect Union. 
With the passage of this bill, I think we 
do one small act to do that. Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, I yield 1 minute to the dean of the 
House, the gentleman from Michigan 
(Mr. DINGELL). (Mr. DINGELL asked and was given permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.) Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I com-mend the sponsors of this legislation, 
and I urge the adoption of the bill. It is appropriate that we should honor these four young girls who gave 
so much to the cause of civil rights. 
They gave their lives. Just before this event, we had passed the Civil Rights Act of 1957. Imme-
diately thereafter, we passed legisla-
tion, cosponsored by the gentleman 
from Tennessee (Mr. Loser) and me, 
which made it a crime to travel in 
interstate commerce for the purpose of 
destroying buildings or churches. 
Shortly thereafter, outraged by the 
events that took place on this awful 
day, the Congress passed the ™64 and 
then the ™65 Civil Rights Acts. b1320 These four beautiful children contrib-uted in a most meaningful way to 
those events which caused the legisla-
tion to become law, and they saw to it 
that we honor their doings today with 
enactment of this legislation. I rise in support of H.R. 360, legislation to award a Congressional Gold Medal to four 
brave little girls who tragically lost their lives 
50 years ago in the bombing of the Sixteenth 
Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Ala-
bama. I want to thank the gentlewoman from Ala-bama, Congresswoman SEWELL, for bringing the attention of Congress to this fateful inci-dent that helped transform the history of our nation and for giving the victims of this attack 
the recognition for which they are long over-
due. I remember the day of this tragic incident, and my thoughts and prayers continue to be 
with the families of the victims of this sense-
less act of violence. The Sixteenth Street Baptist Church bomb-ing changed the nature of the conversation in 
Congress, which had stagnated in the 1950s 
and early 1960s. With the strong leadership of Dr. Martin Lu-ther King, Jr., and other leaders in civil soci-
ety, those four little girls did not die in vain. The Birmingham bombing galvanized the nation and gave real urgency to the Civil 
Rights movement, which culminated in the 
signing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 less 
than a year later, and the Voting Rights Act of 
1965 after that. I was proud to stand with President Lyndon Johnson as he signed the Civil Rights Act of 
1964 because nothing is more important than 
ensuring that the rights enshrined in our Con-
stitution are granted to everyone in our soci-
ety. In many respects, the movement that was sparked by this tragic bombing 50 years ago 
continues today. We must continue to make 
every effort to rid our nation of discrimination 
of any kind. Our work today goes beyond voting rights or the right to own property. The battle we must 
focus on now is one of social justice. Americans of all walks of life deserve to be treated fairly and decently, whether it™s in the 
workplace, in our businesses, or in political 
discourse. As we reflect on this tragedy, let us not for-get Dr. King™s wise words, which he penned 
from a Birmingham Jail 50 years ago this 
month. He said, ‚‚Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.™™ Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I now yield 112minutes to the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. FITZPATRICK), who has visited the Sixteenth Street 
Baptist Church with us, and I thank 
him for doing that. Mr. FITZPATRICK. I thank my friend from Alabama (Mr. BACHUS). Mr. Speaker, I rise also to urge pas-sage in support of the bill as we com-
memorate the Sixteenth Street Baptist 
Church bombing in Birmingham. It was a Sunday morning. It was Sep-tember 15, 1963. And I think it™s appro-
priate that we mention their names 
again: Addie Mae Collins, Cynthia Wes-
ley, Carole Robertson, and Denise 
McNair. They were entering their church be-fore the 11 a.m. service when a bomb 
detonated on the church™s east side, 
and the explosion killed all four young 
girls and maimed dozens of the parish-
ioners there. The bombing of that church gave fur-ther momentum in the struggle to end 
segregation and helped to spur support 
for the passage of the landmark Civil 
Rights Act right here in this Chamber. Last month, many of us were honored to commemorate that event and an-
other event that served as a catalyst 
for action in the civil rights move-ment. I also joined Members of Con-gress in the annual pilgrimage across 
the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, 
Alabama, the event that marked the 
beating of peaceful voting civil rights 
marchers, known as Bloody Sunday, on 
March 7, 1965. And the pilgrimage was 
meaningful, as other Members of Con-
gress and I reflected together on how 
far we™ve come as a country. Bloody Sunday and the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church bombing remind 
us of the long and difficult struggle to 
end segregation; and it is immensely 
important, Mr. Speaker, that we com-
memorate these moments and these 
four little girls, that they led to the 
advancement of civil rights for the Af-
rican American community and for our 
entire country. Again, I urge passage of the bill. 
Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that 4 minutes of 
my time be given to Ms. SEWELLto manage, and I reserve the balance of 
my time. I do that in acknowledgement 
of her fine work on this legislation and 
those of her colleagues who visited the 
church. The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Alabama? There was no objection. 
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, I want to thank the gentleman from 
Alabama. It has been a pleasure to not 
only represent Jefferson County with 
him, but to serve in this body with 
him. And I thank you for yielding me 
that time. I now yield 2 minutes to the distin-guished gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
LEWIS); and while he may represent Georgia, we claim him as Alabama™s 
native. Mr. LEWIS. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my friends, Congresswoman SE-WELLand Congressman BACHUS. It is true that I grew up in Alabama, and I represent Georgia, but Alabama 
is in my blood. I want to thank the two of you for bringing this resolution forward to 
honor these four beautiful little girls 
killed by a bomb while attending Sun-
day school on September 15, 1963, at 
the Sixteenth Street Baptist church. On that Sunday, when I heard about the bombing that morning, I traveled 
to the city of Birmingham and stood 
outside of the church with my friend 
and my coworker, Julian Bond. We 
stood and we looked at the church. 
Later, I had an opportunity to attend 
the funeral of three of the little girls. That bombing took place 18 days after Martin Luther King, Jr., had 
stood here in Washington and said: ‚‚I 
have a dream, a dream deeply rooted in 
the American Dream.™™ That was a sad day. It tore out the essence of our hearts. But we didn™t 
give up. We didn™t become bitter. We 
didn™t become hostile. We continued. 
Because of what happened in Bir-
mingham, it inspired us to go to Selma 
to fight for the right to vote. I think we™re doing the right thing today by honoring these four little VerDate Mar 15 2010 03:24 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00015Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.027H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2266 April 24, 2013 girls. They must be looked upon as those who gave their very lives, gave 
their blood to help redeem the soul of 
America and move us closer to a be-
loved community. I wonder sometimes why, what, and how. We™re a different country and 
we™re a better country because they 
gave their all. Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, I yield 112minutes to another na-tive of Alabama who happens to rep-
resent Georgia, the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. BISHOP). Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. I thank the gentlelady for yielding. Alabama named me, but Georgia claimed me. I remember vividly the Sunday of the bombing as a young boy in Mobile, Ala-
bama. I™m reminded of the words of 
James Weldon Johnson: Stony the road we trod, Bitter the chastening rod, 
Felt in the days when hope unborn had died; Yet with a steady beat, 
Have not our weary feet. Come to the place for which our fathers sighed? We have come over a way that with tears have been watered, We have come, treading our path through the blood of the slaughtered, Out from the gloomy past, 
Till now we stand at last, 
Where the white gleam of our bright star is cast. Addie Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole Robertson, Cynthia Wesley: four 
little girls are bright stars in the con-
stellation shining down now as beacons 
of light for freedom and justice. So today, 50 years after the senseless bombing in Birmingham, it™s alto-
gether fitting and proper that we 
should look back and commemorate 
the significance of the sacrifice of 
these young girls, these four young 
lives. Truly, it was a turning point; and the murder of these youngsters, whose only 
crime was going to the bathroom in 
church, sparked a Nation not only to 
mourn the death of innocence, but to 
act to quell the turmoil and to move us 
toward freedom. I™m happy to join my colleagues, Congresswoman SEWELL, Congressman BACHUS, and all of the colleagues here in this House, to appropriately pass 
legislation to award the Congressional 
Gold Medal to these four young mar-
tyrs in the fight for freedom. Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, I yield 112minutes to the former chair of the Congressional Black Cau-
cus, the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. 
CLEAVER). Mr. CLEAVER. Mr. Speaker, I say congratulations to Ms. SEWELLand Mr. BACHUS. I had returned home from a movie. If we went to church, we had the oppor-
tunity to do other things; and I went 
on to church, and so my parents al-
lowed me to go to the movies. When my sisters and I walked back into the house, our mother was in the living room with some friends and they were crying. We didn™t know what hap-
pened, and she said that they had 
killed some little black girls down in 
Birmingham. I had no idea that I would eventually become deeply involved in the South-
ern Christian Leadership Conference, 
and I realized later that the reason for 
the bombing of the Sixteenth Street 
Baptist Church is that it had been the 
headquarters, the meeting place of the 
Southern Christian Leadership Con-
ference led by Martin Luther King, Jr.; 
the vice president, Ralph David Aber-
nathy, and my father in the ministry, 
who wrote to me, ‚‚I am your Paul; you 
are my solace.™™ And there was also 
Reverend Fred Shuttlesworth, who 
says he taught me how to preach. b1330 They met there, and that was reason enough to blow up that building and 
kill these little girls, innocent little 
girls. I was pleased in 1979 when Richard Arrington was elected mayor of Bir-
mingham. And I remember thinking 
Fred Shutterworth had coined the term 
‚‚Bombingham™™ because his own home 
was blown to bits; and on the day Rich-
ard Arrington, a Black man, was elect-
ed mayor, I said, ‚‚It is no longer 
Bombingham; it is now Birmingham.™™ Ms. SEWELL, congratulations to you. This should be done, it is being done, 
and it furthers the way of that name 
from ‚‚Bombingham™™ to ‚‚Bir-mingham.™™ Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 1 minute. What we need to fully realize is that the civil rights victories were achieved 
with the guiding principle of non-
violence. There are many regions and 
nations of the world that have been 
trapped in endless cycles of ethnic and 
political violence across multiple gen-
erations that have torn the fabric of 
their societies and families. We always 
like to think that could never happen 
here. It did not happen during the civil 
rights movement because of the prin-
ciple of nonviolence. I journeyed, at JOHNLEWIS™ invita-tion, to India where we retraced the 
steps of Martin Luther King as he re-
traced the journey of Ghandi. Dr. King 
took his own religious convictions, af-
firmed and strengthened by those of 
Ghandi, and brought back a powerful 
nonviolent movement which overcame 
police dogs, water hoses, brutal beat-
ings, bombs, bullets, and acts of vio-
lence in a nonviolent way. And love 
carried the day against hate. That was 
a proud moment for our country, and it 
is a model as we go forward. We in America have the right to peti-tion our government in a peaceful way. 
Let us use that example and that tradi-
tion. With that, Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-mous consent to yield the balance of 
my time to the gentlewoman from Ala-
bama to manage as she sees fit and 
give her the right to close, which I 
think should be her honor. The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Alabama? There was no objection. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-tlewoman from Alabama controls the 
remaining 5 minutes. Ms. SEWELL. I again thank the gen-tleman from Alabama. It is indeed an 
honor to be able to manage the floor 
with you on this bill and cosponsor it 
with you, and I thank you for your gen-
erosity. At this time I yield 112minutes to the distinguished gentlelady from 
Texas (Ms. JACKSONLEE). Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, often we are taught in the Christian 
Baptist and African American tradi-
tion, which is paraphrasing the words 
of the Bible, give honor unto those 
upon whom honor is due. For that rea-
son, I can give tribute to the two Mem-
bers of Congress without reservation 
for recognizing the importance, both 
Congresswoman SEWELLand Congress-man BACHUS, for giving honor to those families who languished for over 50 
years and wondered did anybody care. 
We thank Congresswoman SEWELLfor her great leadership and Congressman 
BACHUSfor joining and exuding the kind of partnership, the spirit of his 
family tradition against all adversity, 
saying I want to join and to speak of 
nonviolence. I rise today with great enthusiasm for H.R. 360 and say to the family mem-
bers, the sisters, the friends of Addie 
Mae Collins, Carole Robertson, Cynthia 
Wesley, and Denise McNair, it has been 
too long. And so we rise today to be able to make amends for justice that had not been served because of the callousness 
and indifference, sometimes of crimi-
nal collusion, and many times the lack 
of enforcement of devastation against 
coloreds, Blacks, Negroes, and African 
Americans. There was an era that we 
look sadly upon; but now today, in the 
spirit of Dr. King™s message of non-
violence, we are able to say yes, pro-
foundly yes. The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired. Ms. SEWELL. I yield an additional 30 seconds to the gentlelady. Ms. JACKSON LEE. I thank the gen-tlelady for her kindness. We are able to now say profoundly to these girls™ relatives that we honor the 
children who lost their future. We 
honor them by saying to their families, 
We care for you. And in the words of 
John F. Kennedy: We are confronted primarily with a moral issue. It is as old as the Scriptures, and it is 
as clear as the American ConstitutionŠjus-
tice delayed is sometimes justice denied. But as Martin Luther King said in the Birmingham jail: ‚‚Go wherever in-
justice is.™™ Today on the floor of the House, we will remedy injustice. I™m delighted to 
be a supporter and cosponsor of this 
great resolution. Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Illinois 
(Mr. DANNYK. DAVIS). VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:15 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00016Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.030H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2267 April 24, 2013 (Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois asked and was given permission to re-
vise and extend his remarks.) Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the gentle-
woman from Alabama for yielding me 
this time. I want to commend her for 
her leadership and commend the lead-
ership of Representative BACHUSfrom Alabama. I remember that day vividly as a young activist at the time. We thought 
it was unbelievable that this kind of 
tragedy could take place. But I think it 
reminds all of us that yesterday is yes-
terday. We look forward to tomorrow, 
and I again commend the gentlewoman 
from Alabama and Mr. BACHUSfor re-minding us of that time and what can 
happen when we join hands together. And so I thank you both. 
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, I yield 1 minute to the distin-
guished gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. 
EDDIEBERNICEJOHNSON). Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I think many 
times people wonder why so often we 
go back and give homage to our past. 
It™s because we still suffer the damages 
of the past. And we don™t forget the 
families that have given up so much 
just for us to be able to vote. And we 
still struggle for that vote. We still 
struggle for the right to vote, but we 
must continue. And I want to say to 
these families, and I know some of 
them personally, how much we appre-
ciate the fact that they have been loyal 
to the cause, loyal to this country, 
loyal to our military, and stand strong 
today. And so I want to thank you very 
much for giving honor. I thank my col-
league. Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, I want to conclude by thanking all 
of my colleagues, especially my col-
leagues from Alabama, and all of my 
colleagues who have participated in to-
day™s debate. It is indeed an honor and 
a privilege for me, a native of Selma, 
Alabama, a 30-year member of Brown 
Chapel AME Church, to have the hum-
ble honor to be a sponsor of this bill. I know that I drink deep from wells that I didn™t dig, my whole generation 
does. It is a long time overdue, but I 
just want to say humbly, Thank you, 
and I urge all of my colleagues to sup-
port H.R. 360. And again, I thank the 
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. BACH-US). It has been an honor to serve with you and to share this time with you. I yield back the balance of my time. 
Mr. BACHUS. (Mr. Speaker, it is important to remember that the 4 men suspected of the 
bombing, Bobby Frank Cherry, Herman Cash, 
Thomas Blanton, and Robert Chambliss, were 
not immediately prosecuted because authori-
ties believed it impossible to obtain a convic-
tion in the heated racial climate of the mid- 
1960s. Alabama Attorney General Bill Baxley 
successfully prosecuted Robert Chambliss 13 
years after the bombing. After the indictment 
and conviction of Robert Chambliss the bomb-
ing investigation was closed. The investigation 
was reopened in 1995 due to the efforts of 
Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent Rob Langford and local African-American leaders. In 2001 and 2002 a joint Federal and 
State task force, under the supervision of 
United States Attorney Douglas Jones and 
Alabama Attorney General William Pryor, suc-
cessfully prosecuted Thomas Blanton and 
Bobby Frank Cherry with the assistance of 
State and local law enforcement personnel. 
We in Alabama and the Nation Owe a Debt of 
Gratitude for the tireless efforts of then Attor-
ney General Bill Baxley, FBI Special Agent 
Rob Langford, Local African-American leaders, 
United States Attorney Douglas Jones, and 
Alabama Attorney General William Pryor as 
well as those state and local law enforcement 
personnel who brought these perpetrators to 
justice. Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise as a supporter of today™s 
legislation that would award a Congressional 
Gold Medal to commemorate the lives of 
Addie Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole 
Robinson and Cynthia Wesley. This year we commemorate the 50th anni-versary of the atrocious bombing of the 16th 
Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama 
that killed these four little girls on their way to 
Sunday School. While nothing can bring these 
innocent victims back, today we honor their 
legacy with this bill to award them Congres-
sional Gold Medals. Earlier this year I attended the anniversary of Freedom March in Selma. It was a moving 
experience. The stories of the struggle for civil 
rights remind us to continue to fight for the 
rights and freedoms of all Americans. Today 
we take another step forward by honoring 
these four innocent girls who lost their lives on 
that fateful day, 50 years ago. b1340 The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by 
the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. 
BACHUS) that the House suspend the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 360, as 
amended. The question was taken. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being 
in the affirmative, the ayes have it. Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-er, on that I demand the yeas and nays. The yeas and nays were ordered. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned. f PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1549, HELPING SICK 
AMERICANS NOW ACT Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, by di-rection of the Committee on Rules, I 
call up House Resolution 175 and ask 
for its immediate consideration. The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-lows: H. RES. 175 Resolved, That at any time after the adop-tion of this resolution the Speaker may, pur-
suant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the 
House resolved into the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union for 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1549) to amend 
Public Law 111-148 to transfer fiscal year 2013 
through fiscal year 2016 funds from the Pre-vention and Public Health Fund to carry out the temporary high risk health insurance 
pool program for individuals with pre-
existing conditions, and to extend access to 
such program to such individuals who have 
had creditable coverage during the 6 months 
prior to application for coverage through 
such program. The first reading of the bill 
shall be dispensed with. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. 
General debate shall be confined to the bill 
and shall not exceed one hour equally di-
vided and controlled by the chair and rank-
ing minority member of the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce. After general debate 
the bill shall be considered for amendment 
under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute rec-
ommended by the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce now printed in the bill, it shall be 
in order to consider as an original bill for the 
purpose of amendment under the five-minute 
rule an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute consisting of the text of Rules Com-
mittee Print 113-8. That amendment in the 
nature of a substitute shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against that amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute are 
waived. No amendment to that amendment 
in the nature of a substitute shall be in order 
except those printed in the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this res-
olution. Each such amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the report, 
may be offered only by a Member designated 
in the report, shall be considered as read, 
shall be debatable for the time specified in 
the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be 
subject to amendment, and shall not be sub-
ject to a demand for division of the question 
in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such 
amendments are waived. At the conclusion 
of consideration of the bill for amendment 
the Committee shall rise and report the bill 
to the House with such amendments as may 
have been adopted. Any Member may de-
mand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the 
Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the 
nature of a substitute made in order as origi-
nal text. The previous question shall be con-
sidered as ordered on the bill and amend-
ments thereto to final passage without inter-
vening motion except one motion to recom-
mit with or without instructions. The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-tleman from Texas is recognized for 1 
hour. GENERALLEAVE
 Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks. The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas? There was no objection. 
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the cus-
tomary 30 minutes to the gentlelady 
from New York (Ms. SLAUGHTER), pend-ing which I yield myself such time as I 
may consume. During consideration of 
this resolution, all time yielded is for 
the purpose of debate only. House Resolution 175 provides for a structured rule for consideration of 
H.R. 1549. The rule provides for 1 hour 
of general debate equally divided by 
the chair and the ranking member of 
the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce. VerDate Mar 15 2010 03:24 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00017Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.032H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2268 April 24, 2013 The rule makes in order two amend-ments, one Republican, one Demo-
cratic, with 10 minutes of debate for 
each. Further, the rule provides for one 
motion to recommit with or without 
instructions. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the rule and the underlying bill. The 
underlying legislation is a needed piece 
of relief for the hundreds of thousands 
of Americans who were promised by 
their President that they would be cov-
ered under the Affordable Care Act™s 
Preexisting Condition Insurance Plan 
and then were told, as of February 1 of 
this year, Sorry, we™re closed. This is 
one of the many promises the Presi-
dent made that he has failed to uphold. In response to the President™s failed promise, Chairman JOEPITTSintro-duced H.R. 1549, the Helping Sick 
Americans Act, to continue to provide 
insurance for those Americans who are 
most in need of immediate care. And to 
pay to give those most vulnerable pa-
tients insurance and care, we use the 
Prevention and Public Health Fund, an 
allocation of money that should be 
going to help patients, but it™s instead 
being used for administrative costs to 
set up the exchanges that won™t be on-
line for some time now and for glossy 
brochures to extol their virtues. The 
money could be used to help people 
now, and that™s why Republicans are 
here today. The Affordable Care Act created the new Preexisting Condition Insurance 
Plan, which was, arguably, duplicative 
of actions taken by 35 States prior to 
2010 that were operating risk pools, 
that were operating re-insurance pro-
grams and served over 200,000 Ameri-
cans. It has been shown that State-based programs play an important role in 
lowering costs across markets and then 
providing coverage options for those 
with preexisting conditions. In some 
States, those plans merged with the 
Federal plan into an existing high-risk 
pool. In other States, like Texas, the 
Federal plan operates in parallel to the 
State™s pool. But whether the States merged their pools, adopted a State-administered 
preexisting plan, or whether the Fed-
eral preexisting plan is the only option, 
this program is the only answer for 
those who have found themselves un-
able to purchase insurance on their 
own because of a medical condition. Shortly after the passage of the Pa-tient Protection and Affordable Care 
Act, the chief actuary for the Centers 
for Medicare & Medicaid Services esti-
mated that the creation of this pro-
gram would result in roughly 375,000 
gaining coverage in 2010. However, to 
date, only 107,000 individuals were en-
rolled in the program as of January 1 
of this year. On February 15 of this year, the Cen-ters for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
announced to States that the agency 
was suspending enrollment in the Pre-
existing Condition Insurance Program. 
Very little was said of the fact that this program was intended to help indi-viduals with preexisting conditions 
through the 1st of January of 2014. Despite lower than expected enroll-ment, the Centers for Medicare & Med-
icaid Services announced that it will 
no longer enroll new individuals in the 
program, and it will bar States from 
accepting new applications because of 
their financial constraints. According to a report from The Washington Post: Tens of thousands of Americans who can-not get health insurance because of pre-
existing medical problems will be blocked 
from the program that was actually designed 
to help them. On March 5, along with Republican leadership and the leadership from the 
Energy and Commerce Committee, we 
wrote to the President. We let him 
know that this was not right. We let 
him know that, while we may have de-
signed the preexisting pool differently, 
Republicans have supported risk pools, 
and that he could easily use funds from 
other accounts in the Affordable Care 
Act like the Prevention and Public 
Health Fund. But so far, the response 
to our letter from the President is zero. I support prevention activities. As a doctor, I know it™s better to keep a per-
son well than to treat an illness; and to 
anyone across the aisle, we™ve dem-
onstrated this in the past. If we want 
to modernize government programs 
where they have fallen behind private 
insurers and employers in avoiding dis-
ease and getting people more involved 
in their health care, we™re here to talk. b1350 But the prevention fund has been used in a haphazard way, with no uni-
fied vision and in many ways that are 
quite questionable, with the mere hope, 
with the mere aspiration that 10 years 
from now we can look back and think 
that we™ve made a difference. But it™s 
really something I cannot support 
when we are $17 trillion in debt and 
sick Americans are being turned away 
from an insurance coverage that they 
were promised by the President. As a physician, ensuring those with preexisting conditions have access to 
quality and affordable health insurance 
is a priority. As much as I believe that 
the Affordable Care Act stretched the 
bounds of constitutionalityŠand I still 
doŠI was concerned that if the Su-
preme Court had invalidated the law 
last summer, those who were in this 
new Federal preexisting pool would 
have had the rug pulled out from under 
them and they could have been barred 
from merging into their States™ pool 
because of the previously provided cov-
erage. That™s why, to ensure that that did not happen, I was prepared to answer 
that challenge, had it arisen, by intro-
ducing legislation prior to the Court™s 
decision to provide States with the fi-
nancial backing to decide how best to 
provide coverage for this population 
through some type of risk pool, rein-
surance, or other innovative method. I will also note that unlike many of the complaints that the Preexisting 
Condition Insurance Program has 
faced, that bill, as well as the bill that 
we are considering today, did not re-
quire those with preexisting conditions 
to jump through hoops or to remain 
uninsured for 6 months before being el-
igible for coverage. On the other hand, 
instead of making sick Americans a 
priority, the administration is telling them to just give us 10 more months. 
Well, what a striking comparison. There are always stories of those who have done the right thing and insured 
themselves and then, for whatever rea-
sonŠfalling on bad luck or hard 
timesŠhave fallen out of the system, 
usually because of a job loss, they get 
a medical diagnosis, and when their 
employment status changes, they find 
themselves forever locked out of cov-
erage. Those were the stories that peo-
ple thought of when they did say they 
wanted something done about this 
issue. I might add that when the Affordable Care Act was passed, the administra-
tion and congressional Democrats vast-
ly oversold this concept. We were told 
time and again there were 8 to 12 to 15 
million people wandering the country 
with some type of preexisting condi-
tion that were excluded from coverage. 
It™s interesting that now, here we are 3 
years later, spending $5 billion and 
they™ve enrolled a hundred thousand 
people in the program. But it™s a hun-
dred thousand people with a very com-
pelling story. We were told by the American people they wanted us to fix this problem, 
they didn™t want us to screw up the 
rest of the country™s health care, and 
they wanted some help on cost. But, 
unfortunately, we failed on every one 
of those counts. Since the administration has cut off enrollment, how many people have 
signed into or aged into the 6-month 
exclusion that would otherwise be able 
to sign up? The fact is we don™t know. 
But we had a hearing 4 weeks ago 
where we heard from some of these peo-
ple. They do have compelling stories. 
How many were awaiting coverage but 
are now told, especially in States 
where the Federal preexisting program 
is the only option, you just wait until 
2014. So do the best you can with what 
you™ve got between now and then. I will admit that many of the current State-based programs are underfunded 
and lacking the ability to meet their 
needs. It is costly to deal with this pop-
ulation of patients. I was prepared in 
the bill that I offered last summer to 
authorize $30 billion to provide cov-
erage. House Republicans supported $25 
billion in our substitute to the Afford-
able Care Act back in November of 
2009. H.R. 1549 will redirect $3.5 billion from the Prevention and Public Health 
Fund and then eliminate the fund in 
2016. The Congressional Budget Office 
estimates that, unlike the authors of 
the Affordable Care Act, we have pro-
vided enough funding to meet the needs VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:15 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00018Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.034H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2269 April 24, 2013 of the program through the end of the year, while ultimately reducing the 
deficit. Furthermore, once the ‚‚train 
wreck™™ of failed implementation oc-
curs, the amendment that Mr. PITTS plans to offer would provide an escape 
valve for Americans with a preexisting 
condition by providing States with a 
block grant to fund State high-risk 
pools. The majority is serious about fund-ing these programs and dealing with 
the issue, and those cost are a drop in 
the bucket as to what the Affordable 
Care Act will cost our country in the 
future. But those efforts recognize that 
for those who do need insurance and 
are truly uninsurable in the market, it 
will be costly but we will make the de-
cisions that set our priorities straight. Where the President™s response was to tell the people tough luck, not to 
prepare for needing more money or 
transfer funds out of other parts of the 
Affordable Care Act or to look for effi-
ciencies or mismanagement in the pre-
existing condition program or even ap-
proach Congress for funding, dead si-
lence from the administration. Well, 
here Republicans will lead and ensure 
that we help sick Americans now. I reserve the balance of my time. 
Ms. SLAUGHTER. I thank the gen-tleman for yielding me the customary 
30 minutes, and I yield myself such 
time as I may consume. We begin this week the way we™ve begun every week since January: spin-
ning our wheels. As we speak, sequestration is hitting communities across our country. 
Flight delays have started, Head Start 
programs are turning away children, 
and unemployment benefits are being 
curtailed. Despite the calls from me 
and all my Democratic colleagues to 
stop the sequestration, the majority 
refuses to act. In fact, the ranking 
member of the Budget Committee, 
Representative VANHOLLEN, has come four times to the Rules Committee 
with an amendment that would repeal 
sequestration, but the majority has re-
jected it every single time. The majority has also left the job of passing a budget unfinished. With 
budgets passed by both the Senate and 
the House, it is now time to finish the 
job, and for the majority that con-
stantly calls for regular order and con-
cerns itself with no Senate budget, 
they now refuse to appoint the con-
ferees. And they must, if we™re going to 
get the budget. Instead of taking meaningful action on these two important issues, the ma-
jority is proposing a bill that is noth-
ing more than a political gimmick. As 
everyone knows, there™s no chance that 
the Senate will consider this bill. Even 
if it did, the President™s senior advisers 
have stated that they will recommend 
the President veto the bill. In the short history of the 113th Con-gress, I have been repeatedly dismayed 
that the leadership of this Chamber has 
refused to bring forth meaningful legis-
lation that has any chance of becoming law; and today is a telling example of the majority™s failure to lead. In news reports earlier this morning, we were told that today™s bill, dubbed 
by reporters as ‚‚CantorCare,™™ may 
even be pulled before it gets a vote. 
One Member of the majority was pur-
ported to say that today™s bill does 
nothing but shift money from a pro-
gram he doesn™t support to another 
program he doesn™t support. And, in-
deed, given the fact that not a single 
Republican voted for the Affordable 
Care Act, it seems incongruous to me 
that they are now here today with 
great bleeding-heart concerns about 
the people with previous conditions 
that keep them from being insured. So given the multiple reports of dis-sent within the majority, I have to ask, 
If no one supports this bill, then what 
are we doing this afternoon except, as 
I pointed out earlier, what we do every 
week? Even if we continue to move for-
ward on the bill, it is already clear the 
legislation is solely designed for polit-
ical gain. For while the majority 
claims that they want to strengthen 
the Affordable Care Act, their intent is 
clear: they want to repeal the law. Last week, Health and Human Serv-ices Secretary Kathleen Sebelius testi-
fied before the Senate Finance Com-
mittee where she was criticized by GOP 
Senators for using her legal authority 
to fund the implementation of the Af-
fordable Care Act. As Secretary 
Sebelius replied in her testimony, Con-
gress™ failure to pass a budget has 
forced her to take the independent ac-
tion, which she™s allowed to do, in 
order to fund the implementation of 
the Affordable Care Act. It™s as simple 
as that. In the face of an unproductive 
Congress, Secretary Sebelius has done 
everything she can to provide the life-
saving health care to the American 
people. While reporting on Secretary Sebelius™ testimony, Washington Post 
columnist Ezra Klein explained the 
majority™s approach towards the Af-
fordable Health Care Act. In part, Mr. 
Klein wrote: ‚‚Insofar as the Republican Party has a strategy on ObamaCare, it goes like 
this: The law needs to be implemented. 
The GOP can try and keep the imple-
mentation from being done effectively, 
in part, by refusing to authorize the 
needed funds,™™ as they did in this case. 
I think it was $1.5 billion. ‚‚Then they can capitalize on the problems they create to weaken the 
law, or at least weaken Democrats up 
for reelection in 2014. In other words, 
step one: create problems for 
ObamaCare. Step two: blame 
ObamaCare care for the problems. Step 
three: political profit.™™ The legislation before us is little more than a continuation of these 
games. b1400 If the majority were making a seri-ous attempt to expand health care cov-
erage, they wouldn™t be funding their proposal with money from a different program in the Affordable Care Act. 
Specifically, the majority wouldn™t be 
removing $4 billion from the Preven-
tion and Public Health Fund. This is a 
fund that is already helping States re-
search ways to reduce instances of can-
cer, obesity, and heart disease. Preventive health measures are vital to reducing the cost of health care in 
the United States because we know it 
is always cheaper to prevent disease 
than to treat it. In an age where more 
than 33 percent of our population is 
overweight or obese, when heart dis-
ease is the number one cause of death 
and the number of diabetes cases con-
tinue to grow, including children, gut-
ting our Nation™s only Federal preven-
tive health program is not a respon-
sible budget decision; it is simply an 
underhanded attack to dismantle the 
Affordable Care Act one program at a 
time. Finally, the majority™s newfound concern for people who are uninsured 
because of preexisting conditions 
might be more believable if they had 
allowed one of the numerous common-
sense amendments presented to the 
Rules Committee to come to the floor. 
Among the amendments were respon-
sible proposals to cover Americans 
with preexisting conditions by ending 
tax breaks for Big Oil, ending subsidies 
for owners of corporate jets, increasing 
taxes on cigarettesŠa preventive 
health measure in its own right. Pro-
posals like these would expand health 
care to those who need it while pro-
tecting the preventive health measures 
included in the Affordable Care Act. It 
is truly unfortunate that, in yet an-
other restrictive process executed by 
the majority, these amendments were 
denied a vote on the House floor. The majority and the press have made it clear that today™s bill is not a 
serious effort, but a political gimmick 
that has no chance of becoming law. I 
urge my colleagues to vote ‚‚no™™ on to-
day™s rule and the underlying legisla-
tion, and I reserve the balance of my 
time. Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. ROTHFUS). (Mr. ROTHFUS asked and was given permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.) Mr. ROTHFUS. I rise today in sup-port of the rule, H.R. 1549, the Helping 
Sick Americans Now Act, and the Pitts 
amendment. President Obama™s health care law is a train wreck. We learn more every day 
about its failures. H.R. 1549 addresses a 
problem with the law™s provision for 
those with preexisting conditions. The 
bill takes millions of dollars that the 
administration intends to spend on ad-
vertising its failed law and instead 
helps some of the sickest Americans 
get health insurance. Not only that, 
the bill will also end the ObamaCare 
slush fund and reduce the deficit. H.R. 1549 is a win on all fronts. We should applaud Chairman JOEPITTS VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:15 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00019Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.035H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2270 April 24, 2013 and Congresswoman ANNWAGNERfor bringing this commonsense solution 
forward. I urge my colleagues to support the rule and the bill. Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, we will be doing, as I said, a previous ques-
tion amendment to this rule to hold a 
vote on the Put America Back to Work 
Act, and I would like to yield now 3 
minutes to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. HOYER), the Democratic whip. (Mr. HOYER asked and was given permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.) Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentlelady, the ranking member of the Rules Com-
mittee, for yielding. I rise in opposition to the underlying bill and in opposition to this rule and 
for a ‚‚no™™ vote on the previous ques-
tion so that we can substitute Mr. CON-NOLLY™s bill for this bill, which will mean we will substitute something 
that will grow jobs from something 
that will waste time, not because those 
with preexisting conditions aren™t wor-
thy of our considerationŠand, in fact, 
were considered in the Affordable Care 
Act and will have, as of January 2014, 
some real protections, not just high- 
risk protections, some real protections 
for them and their families. The previous speaker said ‚‚this train wreck.™™ This train wreck has already 
benefited millions of people: millions of 
seniors, millions of women, millions of 
people with preexisting conditions, 
millions of students, millions of young 
people who couldn™t get insurance but 
can stay on their family™s policy, mil-
lions of people who didn™t have their 
benefits capped. Millions of people have 
already benefited. The Republican Party continues to oppose. They want to see this bill be a 
train wreck and are doing everything 
in their power to destroy the tracks, 
everything in their power to make sure 
it doesn™t work, make sure that hun-
dreds of millionsŠyes, hundreds of mil-
lionsŠof Americans won™t be benefited 
by bringing down cost and making in-
surance available to millions of people. Just like the little boy who took the lives of his two parents complained to 
the court, ‚‚Give me mercy because I™m 
an orphan,™™ they are destroying the 
tracks that have been constructed to 
give Americans health care assurance. Now, let me say, if we vote against this previous question, we will have an 
opportunity to consider Mr. CON-NOLLY™s bill. That bill will be con-sistent with the Make It In America 
agendaŠjob creation, not wasting 
time. We™re going to do a bill on Thursday and Friday that we could do in 10 min-
utesŠtotally noncontroversial; it™s 
about helium. We™re going to take 2 
days to do that bill; it could be done in 
10 minutes. We are spinning our 
wheels, as the gentlelady suggested. One bill that will be something that we can do for America and jobs as part 
of the Make It In America agenda is H.R. 535, the Put America Back to Work Now Act, sponsored by my friend 
from Virginia (Mr. CONNOLLY). It would permanently extend the Build America 
Bonds program to help State and local 
governments leverage private capital 
to finance infrastructure projectsŠ 
jobs. The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs. MILLERof Michigan). The time of the gentleman has expired. Ms. SLAUGHTER. I yield 1 addi-tional minute to the gentleman from 
Maryland. Mr. HOYER. Build America Bonds have been strongly supported by may-
ors, city managers, county legislators, 
and State officials from both partiesŠ 
a bipartisan support for this bill. At 
the local level, it is a bipartisan solu-
tion that we know works because these 
bonds were used effectively in 2009 and 
2010 before they expired. When it comes to making invest-ments in our Nation™s infrastructure, 
we should be able to support local gov-
ernments that want to attract manu-
facturing and invest in making their 
communities safer, cleaner, and more 
secure. By the way, if we create these jobs, the probability is these people who get 
these jobs will have health insurance 
and will be served, as the doctor would 
like, as I would likeŠhopefully. But let us not continue to waste time on a bill that we know has a deeply di-
vided Republican PartyŠas we™re going 
to see on this vote, I™m sureŠand will 
not get through the Senate and will 
not be signed by the President. We™re 
just wasting our time hereŠpolitical 
messages. By the way, you™ve garbled your mes-sage pretty badly, as I understand from 
Club for Growth and Heritage Founda-
tion and FreedomWorks. So vote against the previous ques-tion. Vote for building America and 
growing jobs. Mr. BURGESS. I yield myself 1 minute. You know, on the subject of wasting time, it was 6 or 7 weeks ago that 
Chairman PITTSsent a letter to the President saying: What are you pro-
posing to do about this? This was not 
something that was in the plan. You 
promised something that was different. 
What are we to tell people who are now 
calling our committee and asking us 
how you™re going to respond to this? The President chose not to respond to that letterŠit™s been 6 or 7 weeksŠ 
but, boy, it didn™t take him 24 hours to 
turn around a Statement of Adminis-
tration Policy that said they would 
veto this bill should it pass the House. 
That™s another reason for me to be for 
it. But, look, in this Statement of Ad-ministration Policy, it says: The Af-
fordable Care Act forces most insur-
ance companies to play by the rules. 
Well, I think this House has an oppor-
tunity today to say to the administra-
tion: Play by the rules. I reserve the balance of my time. Ms. SLAUGHTER. Madam Speaker, I™m pleased to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Nevada (Mr. 
HORSFORD), a member of the Com-mittee on Natural Resources. Mr. HORSFORD. I thank the ranking member for your hard work on these 
issues, and I stand before this House to 
ask that all Members reject this rule. I had an amendment, which was not approved, which is germane to H.R. 
1549 and follows CutGo and would have 
prevented defunding of the Prevention 
and Public Health Fund. Unfortu-
nately, the Rules Committee rejected 
this amendment in order to keep this 
bill purely about political posturing. My constituents sent me here to work together to solve problems, not 
to relitigate legislation which has been 
adopted by Congress, approved by the 
President, upheld by the Supreme 
Court, and the American people sup-
port. b1410 The Prevention and Public Health Fund, among other things, helps reduce 
minority population health disparities 
and supports health care for chronic 
and costly conditions such as diabetes, heart disease, and cancer. There are 
medically underserved communities in 
my district and across the country that 
need better access to care. My amendment would prevent si-phoning of resources needed to reduce 
health disparities among minority pop-
ulations. During the 112th Congress, 
the House voted repeatedly to cut this 
very program. Now the Rules Com-
mittee has rejected my amendment. I urge my colleagues to vote ‚‚no™™ on the rule. We need an open process, not 
more political gamesmanship that 
hurts the American people who need 
access to quality health care. Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 1 minute. It takes me back to when the Afford-able Care Act passed this House and 
the tumultuous time in March of 2010. 
I had 18 amendments in the Rules Com-
mittee the night before that. The rank-
ing member may remember that. None 
of those amendments were made in 
order. Look, if that™s the yardstick by 
which we™re going to measure, we™ve 
got a long way to go. But I need to respond to something that was said by the minority whip. He 
referenced the Appalachian train 
wreck. These are not my words. These 
are words that were used by a senior 
Democratic committee chairman about 
this bill. And then just today, breaking 
news, I™m handed an article from Polit-
ico, another senior Democrat, chair-
man of the Health Committee over on 
the Senate side, is putting a hold on 
the administrator for the Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services nomina-
tion. And why is that hold being placed? An aide said that the Senator objected 
because CMS was using Prevention and 
Public Health Funds to pay for the 
health law implementation; the very 
reason we™re here today. VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:15 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00020Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.037H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2271 April 24, 2013 I reserve the balance of my time. Ms. SLAUGHTER. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Virginia (Mr. CONNOLLY). Mr. CONNOLLY. I thank my dear friend from New York, the ranking 
member of the Rules Committee. Madam Speaker, I urge my colleague to oppose the previous question so we 
can bring up a proven jobs bill for con-
sideration, rather than rehash the 
same old critiques for the 36th time on 
the Affordable Care Act. Just last week, the head of the Fed-eral Reserve Bank of Boston warned 
that if job creation doesn™t pick up 
soon, we run the risk of long-term un-
employment becoming a structural 
rather than cyclical problem within 
our economy. Despite more than 6 mil-
lion new jobs being created in the last 
4 years, the lingering effects of the 
Great Recession continue to be a drag 
on the labor market. Unemployment in 
the construction sector, particularly, 
is nearly double the national rate, with 
hiring down 2 million from its peak in 
2006. I have introduced the Put America Back to Work Act, H.R. 535, which 
would permanently reauthorize the 
successful Build America Bonds pro-
gram at a more revenue-neutral rate. 
In just 2 years, that program, Madam 
Speaker, supported $181 billion in com-
munity infrastructure projects in every 
State of the Union and created thou-
sands of new jobs. Every dollar of Fed-
eral investment leveraged $41 in pri-
vate sector funds to help our State and 
local governments recover and con-
struct the needed infrastructure 
throughout the country. Local govern-
ments issued more than $275 million in 
new bonds, with one of the largest 
projects completing a missing segment 
of a cross-county parkway in my dis-
trict that now links major employment 
centers. Reauthorizing Build America Bonds is part of the President™s Rebuild 
America Partnership initiative, and it 
is part of the Make It In America agen-
da put forth by STENYHOYER, our mi-nority whip. More important, it has 
the strong support of investors, local 
governments, State governments, and 
construction companies throughout 
the United States. Build America 
Bonds helped provide 36 percent of all 
municipal bond sales back in 2009Œ2010 
when, literally, municipal bonds had 
stopped being issued. Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in opposing the previous 
question so we can bring up H.R. 535. Let™s do something for America, its lo-
calities, its States, its crumbling infra-
structure. These investments reap 
large and long-term returns. Look at 
the interstate highway system, a gift 
that keeps on giving 65 years later. Defeating the previous question will allow us to come together finally on a 
bipartisan basis and do something for 
our country. Build America Bonds is an 
idea whose time has arrived. Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 1 minute. There™s nothing that has been more damaging to job creation in this coun-
try than the first 2 years of the first 
Obama term. During that time, with 
vast majorities in both the House and 
the Senate, the anti-employment, the 
outright hostility to the productive 
sector of American society, was pal-
pable. People responded to that in very 
predictable ways, so they hunkered 
down. And then you come throw the wet blanket of the Affordable Care Act. 
What did that do to job creation? It 
killed it in this country, and it is kill-
ing it today. If you want job creation in this coun-try, you will provide some stability, 
some sanity, to allow those people who 
are still in that hunkered-down modal-
ity that they™ve been in since the first 
Obama administration was sworn in, 
allow them a chance for real economic 
recovery. That™s why it™s important to 
divert those funds from the Prevention 
and Public Health Fund, help those 
people with preexisting conditions, 
and, yes, we may get some sanity out 
of the administration on the imple-
mentation of the health care law if we 
do that. I reserve the balance of my time. 
Ms. SLAUGHTER. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlelady from 
California (Ms. MATSUI). Ms. MATSUI. I thank the gentlelady for yielding me time. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-port of defeating the previous question. 
Putting people back to work is our 
number one priority. Mr. CONNOLLY™s bill, which is part of the Make It In America agenda, will 
strengthen our economy by creating 
jobs and spurring innovation through-
out the American manufacturing sec-
tor. One area where we must assert world leadership is in clean energy tech-
nologies. This is why I have introduced 
the Clean Energy Technology Manufac-
turing and Export Assistance Act, leg-
islation that is part of the Make It In 
America agenda. This bill will help 
clean energy technology companies ac-
cess the world market and ensure these 
companies have the resources they 
need to export their products. Let™s 
face it, the clean energy technology in-
dustry is growing rapidly. New jobs 
will be created, if not here, then in 
places like China and Germany. In my home district of Sacramento, we have over 200 clean energy compa-
nies, the majority of which are small 
businesses. Clean World Partners is a 
local company that is converting ev-
eryday items like food and waste into 
energy. Altergy Systems manufactures 
fuel cell power systems. These small 
business owners want to expand their 
manufacturing operations and export 
their clean energy technologies to for-
eign markets, but they need our help, 
and they need it now. I urge my colleagues to defeat the previous question and immediately 
take up the Connolly bill, which is part of the Make It In America agenda, to show the American public we are seri-
ous about investing in our economy. Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 1 minute. The last Congress we had this debate over and over again, which obviously 
culminated with the significant find-
ings in our Committee on Energy and 
Commerce on what happened with the 
energy company called Solyndra. The 
moneys that were pushed out the door 
by the Department of Energy in the 
first 4 years of the Obama administra-
tion, those moneys were poorly spent 
and unwisely invested. And what did 
we get for that investment? More debt. Here we are faced with a condition in the Prevention Fund where these dol-
lars are going to be pushed out the 
door hiring navigators. Remember, 
part of the Affordable Care Act was to 
absolutely remove insurance agents 
and brokers from the environment, and 
now we™re going to populate the envi-
ronment with these navigators that are 
going to help sell people health insur-
ance, and they™re going to be paid for 
out of the Department of Health and 
Human Services with the prevention 
fund. It doesn™t sound like prevention 
to me. I think we ought to prevent that 
from happening. I reserve the balance of my time. 
Ms. SLAUGHTER. Madam Speaker, I am pleased to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from California (Mr. 
TAKANO). Mr. TAKANO. I thank the gentlelady from New York for yielding. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to the previous question. When I came to the Congress 4 months ago, I didn™t really anticipate 
that we would be arguing over legisla-
tion that was passed 3 years ago. My 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
think it™s 2010. They are spending all of 
their time debating bills from years 
past. ObamaCare was passed by the House, passed by the Senate, and signed by the 
President. That means it™s the law. 
That didn™t stop conservatives. They 
have tried to amend, gut, defund, in-
vestigate, and sue ObamaCare into ob-
livion. And they failed because Ameri-
cans support progress and reform. b1420 But ObamaCare seems to be on their messaging calendar this week, so we™re 
stuck with it until Friday. But what 
happened to last week™s Republican 
message or to even last month™s mes-
saging? Just ask yourself: Isn™t it odd that the Republicans aren™t saying that we 
need to pass a budget anymore? Earlier this year, the House majority was going on and on about the need to 
pass a budget. For months, my col-
leagues asked: Why hasn™t the Senate 
passed a budget? Why hasn™t the Sen-
ate passed a budget? Guess what? The Senate passed a budget. So why is the House majority refus-ing to go to conference? VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:15 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00021Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.039H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2272 April 24, 2013 I™m sure Senator REIDgets some amusement from calling Speaker BOEH-NER™s bluff and watching the Repub-lican caucus squirm, but this back-and- 
forth is a waste of time. Let™s get past debates from 3 years ago and get on with our work. Our time 
is precious. The House should appoint 
conferees and pass a final budget and 
get on with addressing the real crisis 
our Nation facesŠjobs. Mr. BURGESS. I yield myself 1 minute. Since the gentleman wasn™t here in the spring of 2010 when the Affordable 
Care Act passed, he probably didn™t 
hear the utterance of the then-Speaker 
of the House, NANCYPELOSI, who fa-mously, from that chair, stood up and 
said, ‚‚We™ve got to pass this law to 
find out what™s in it.™™ Here we are a little over 3 years later, and we™re still finding out what™s 
in it. Yes, the law is the lawŠthe law 
has passed; the law is signedŠbut what 
has happened since that time is this 
torrent of regulations that has come 
out of the Department of Health and 
Human Services, the Department of 
the Treasury, the Office of Personnel 
ManagementŠall of those Federal 
agencies charged with implementing 
this failed product. Now, we can argue 
all we want about settled law being 
settled law, but rulemaking is going on 
even as we speak. New rules are coming 
out. New rules are being promulgated. Look at the Essential Health Benefit Rule. Why did the administration hide 
the ball on that one until 2 days after 
election day? Because they were afraid 
of what the public™s response would be 
when they saw what that rule actually 
said. It turns out that most of the Na-
tion™s Governors said, We don™t want 
any part of this. I reserve the balance of my time. 
Ms. SLAUGHTER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as it takes me 
to read this message. It needs to be an-
swered, and I want everybody in Amer-
ica to listen up. You™ve been told it™s a 
job-killing bill and that it has caused 
all this grief. Let me say: Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act, the United States has added more than 
6 million private sector jobs. The health care 
industry alone, which many opponents of the 
law predicted would face job-killing new reg-
ulation, has added more than 750,000 jobs. I now yield 2 minutes to the gentle-woman from California (Ms. HAHN). Ms. HAHN. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of defeating the previous ques-
tion so that the House may bring up 
Representative CONNOLLY™s Put Amer-ica Back to Work Act as part of the 
Make It In America legislative pack-
age. Make It In America is a comprehen-sive jobs plan that aims to reinvigorate 
our ailing manufacturing sector and 
bring innovation and high-skilled, 
high-wage jobs back to the United 
States, and it invests in training the 
skilled workforce needed to support 
manufacturing in the 21st century. We have an infrastructure crisis in this country, Madam Speaker, which is why I introduced the Bridges to Jobs Act as part of the Make It In America 
package. Do you know there are about 70,000 bridges that have been classified as 
‚‚structurally deficient™™ in our coun-
try? Leaving these bridges in their cur-
rent state of disrepair poses a grave 
threat not only to our safety but also 
to our economy. This act provides each 
State with $10 million in grants to put 
Americans back to work by repairing 
our crumbling bridges. Not only will 
this legislation put Americans back to 
work and bolster our ailing economy, 
it will also ensure the safety of the 
millions who use these bridges each 
and every day. I urge my colleagues to support this crucial investment in our workforce, 
our economy, and our safety. Let™s de-feat the previous question so we can 
bring this bill back up. Mr. BURGESS. I yield myself 1 minute. I think it™s important for Members of this body to understand one of the 
things we™re talking about today. It™s 
section 4002 of the Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act. In my copy, 
it™s found on page 466. This delineates 
the outline of the Prevention and Pub-
lic Health Fund. Section A: The purpose is to estab-lish a Prevention and Public Health 
Fund. That all sounds good. It™s to be ad-ministered through the Office of the 
Secretary to provide for the expanded 
and sustained national investment in 
the maintaining of public health. All 
good as it sounds. Then the funding section. The fund-ing section is important because it™s 
unlike other sections of law. Yes, it 
started small with literally a half bil-
lion dollars in fiscal year 2010. It esca-
lated from there, and by next year, this 
fund will be up to $2 billion a year. 
That™s self-replenishing in perpetuity. 
That™s until the Earth cools another 
time or the Second Coming. It™s $2 bil-
lion a year forever. Now, the use of the fund is the next section. That is telling because there is 
broad authority for the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services to transfer 
these dollars to other areas she wants. 
That is what leads to the problem. 
That is what leads to the difficulty 
with this section. I reserve the balance of my time. 
Ms. SLAUGHTER. Madam Speaker, may I inquire if my colleague has more 
requests for time? I have none, and I 
am prepared to close. Mr. BURGESS. I will go as long as the gentlelady wants, but I guess I 
have no more speakers other than my-
self. Ms. SLAUGHTER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume. First, at the end of my remarks I will insert in the RECORDthe Democratic amendments that were disallowed last 
night from the Rules Committee. In closing, Madam Speaker, we™ve heard a lot today, but I think probably one of the most important things for America to knowŠbecause you hear 
constantly how many jobs this bill is 
going to be killingŠis the fact that we 
have produced 6 million new jobs, 
750,000 in health care alone. So the most important thing we can do for Americans with preexisting con-
ditions, which is the subject today, and 
for every American seeking quality and 
affordable health care is to support the 
full implementation of the Affordable 
Care Act. Unfortunately, the proposal 
put forward by the majority today is 
an attempt to dismantle a crucial part 
of that important law. SUMMARYOFDEMOCRATICAMENDMENTSNOT
 MADEINORDERBYTHERULESCOMMITTEE
 FORH
.R. 1549ŠHELPINGSICKAMERICANSNOW
 ACT (SUMMARIESDERIVEDFROMINFORMATION
 PROVIDEDBYSPONSORS)
 LISTEDINALPHABETICALORDER
ŠPREPARED APRIL24
, 2013 Amendment #4 Sponsor: Capps (CA) 
Description: Removes the public health and prevention trust fund as a pay-for and 
instead pays for the bill by ending the sec-
tion 199 domestic manufacturing deduction 
for oil and gas production. Amendment #5 Sponsor: Green, Gene (TX) Description: Makes the same changes to the PCIP program that the underlying bill 
does, but is paid for by requiring a minimum 
term and a remainder interest greater than 
zero for new Grantor Retained Annuity 
Trusts (GRATs) Amendment #10 Sponsor: Horsford, Steven (NV) 
Description: Requires the HHS Secretary to transfer all of the monies in the Fund for 
the next four fiscal years to the PCIP pro-
gram except those monies from the fund that 
are used for reducing health disparities 
among minority populations. Amendment #1 Sponsor: Pallone (NJ) 
Description: Makes the same changes to the PCIP program that the underlying bill 
does, but is paid for through a 4 cent per 
pack increase in the tax on cigarettes. Amendment #2 Sponsor: Pallone (NJ) 
Description: Makes the same changes to the PCIP program that the underlying bill 
does, but is paid for by continuing the sol-
vency of the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund 
by increasing the per-barrel amount that oil 
companies are required to pay into the fund 
by four cents. Amendment #3 Sponsor: Schakowsky (IL) 
Description: Extends funding for reopening enrollment under the Preexisting Condition 
Insurance Program (PCIP) Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to insert the text of the 
amendment in the RECORD, along with extraneous material, immediately 
prior to the vote on the previous ques-
tion. The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York? There was no objection. 
Ms. SLAUGHTER. I urge my col-leagues to vote ‚‚no™™ and defeat the 
previous question, and I urge a ‚‚no™™ 
vote on the rule. I yield back the balance of my time. VerDate Mar 15 2010 03:24 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00022Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.042H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2273 April 24, 2013 Mr. BURGESS. I yield myself the balance of my time. Madam Speaker, as the gentlelady mentioned, we™ve heard a lot today. I think I™ve said over and over again how I, unequivocally, oppose the Af-
fordable Care Act and would like to see 
it forever dismantled and thrown on 
the dustbin of history. Guilty as 
charged. That is what I would like to 
see, but that™s actually not what we™re 
talking about today. We™re here today to talk about the President™s promise to help people with 
preexisting conditions obtain health 
insurance, and it has been one of the 
few areas of agreement between Repub-
licans and Democrats over the last sev-
eral years. House Republicans have 
urged the President to work with us on 
a solution to this issue, but all we™ve 
heard from the White House has been 
silence. So, today, we are offering a so-
lution: The bill transfers funds from an un-necessary slush fund and, instead, 
prioritizes the Nation™s most sick and 
vulnerable who have been denied cov-
erage and who have been the victims of 
the Affordable Care Act™s broken prom-
ises. This bill does not provide more 
money to government health care pro-
grams, but instead it helps those who 
are in desperate need have access to 
privately run health insurance. Instead 
of continuing to use the Prevention 
and Public Health Fund to prop up the 
Affordable Care Act™s flailing ex-
changes, we would use the money allo-
cated for public health to actually help 
sick Americans. If we do not act, the administration will continue to spend this money on 
heaven knows what: neutering pro-
grams, pickle ballŠwhatever the heck 
that isŠand programs that are rife 
with potential for fraud and abuse to 
support their own failing implementa-
tion plans. Instead of further increas-
ing this Nation™s $17 trillion deficit, we 
can pass this bill that will provide 
health care to the sick and will reduce 
the deficit at the same time. In the end, it™s not about the money. It™s about America™s patients. The 
President should be embarrassed. His 
political bait-and-switch is not work-
ing. Instead of putting the care of the 
sick first, you tell them, Sorry, Sister, 
we™re closed. Come back in 10 months. Ten months, a week, a day may be the amount of time some of these pa-
tients have to get treatment or else 
face the consequences of the progres-
sion of their illnesses. b1430 America™s doctors and hospitals will be there, and they™ll always be there. 
But why deny them the means to get 
their services paid for with insurance 
coverage? Mr. President, your health bill fails this country, and, most importantly, 
you have failed the thousands of sick 
Americans who can™t get health cov-
erage because you think implementing 
the health care law is more important than taking care of the people who you promised to take care of. So today we can end the use of the slush fund and use it to actually help 
people. A vote for this bill is a vote to 
help sick Americans now. Madam Speaker, I urge my col-leagues to support the rule and support 
the passage of H.R. 1549. The material previously referred to by Ms. SLAUGHTERis as follows: ANAMENDMENTTO
H. RES. 175 OFFEREDBY
 MS. SLAUGHTEROF
NEWYORK At the end of the resolution, add the fol-lowing new sections: SEC. 2. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution the Speaker shall, pursuant to 
clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole 
House on the state of the Union for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 535) to amend the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently 
extend the Build America Bonds program. 
The first reading of the bill shall be dis-
pensed with. All points of order against con-
sideration of the bill are waived. General de-
bate shall be confined to the bill and shall 
not exceed one hour equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Ways and 
Means. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five- 
minute rule. All points of order against pro-
visions in the bill are waived. At the conclu-
sion of consideration of the bill for amend-
ment the Committee shall rise and report 
the bill to the House with such amendments 
as may have been adopted. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final 
passage without intervening motion except 
one motion to recommit with or without in-
structions. If the Committee of the Whole 
rises and reports that it has come to no reso-
lution on the bill, then on the next legisla-
tive day the House shall, immediately after 
the third daily order of business under clause 
1 of rule XIV, resolve into the Committee of 
the Whole for further consideration of the 
bill. SEC. 3. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the consideration of H.R. 535. THEVOTEONTHE
PREVIOUSQUESTION: WHAT ITREALLYMEANS This vote, the vote on whether to order the previous question on a special rule, is not 
merely a procedural vote. A vote against or-
dering the previous question is a vote 
against the Republican majority agenda and 
a vote to allow the Democratic minority to 
offer an alternative plan. It is a vote about 
what the House should be debating. Mr. Clarence Cannon™s Precedents of the House of Representatives (VI, 308Œ311), de-
scribes the vote on the previous question on 
the rule as ‚‚a motion to direct or control the 
consideration of the subject before the House 
being made by the Member in charge.™™ To 
defeat the previous question is to give the 
opposition a chance to decide the subject be-
fore the House. Cannon cites the Speaker™s 
ruling of January 13, 1920, to the effect that 
‚‚the refusal of the House to sustain the de-
mand for the previous question passes the 
control of the resolution to the opposition™™ 
in order to offer an amendment. On March 
15, 1909, a member of the majority party of-
fered a rule resolution. The House defeated 
the previous question and a member of the 
opposition rose to a parliamentary inquiry, 
asking who was entitled to recognition. 
Speaker Joseph G. Cannon (RŒIllinois) said: 
‚‚The previous question having been refused, 
the gentleman from New York, Mr. Fitz-
gerald, who had asked the gentleman to yield to him for an amendment, is entitled to the first recognition.™™ The Republican majority may say ‚‚the vote on the previous question is simply a 
vote on whether to proceed to an immediate 
vote on adopting the resolution ... [and] 

has no substantive legislative or policy im-
plications whatsoever.™™ But that is not what 
they have always said. Listen to the Repub-
lican Leadership Manual on the Legislative 
Process in the United States House of Rep-
resentatives, (6th edition, page 135). Here™s 
how the Republicans describe the previous 
question vote in their own manual: ‚‚Al-
though it is generally not possible to amend 
the rule because the majority Member con-
trolling the time will not yield for the pur-
pose of offering an amendment, the same re-
sult may be achieved by voting down the pre-
vious question on the rule. .... 
When the motion for the previous question is defeated, 
control of the time passes to the Member 
who led the opposition to ordering the pre-
vious question. That Member, because he 
then controls the time, may offer an amend-
ment to the rule, or yield for the purpose of 
amendment.™™ In Deschler™s Procedure in the U.S. House of Representatives, the subchapter titled 
‚‚Amending Special Rules™™ states: ‚‚a refusal 
to order the previous question on such a rule 
[a special rule reported from the Committee 
on Rules] opens the resolution to amend-
ment and further debate.™™ (Chapter 21, sec-
tion 21.2) Section 21.3 continues: ‚‚Upon re-
jection of the motion for the previous ques-
tion on a resolution reported from the Com-
mittee on Rules, control shifts to the Mem-
ber leading the opposition to the previous 
question, who may offer a proper amendment 
or motion and who controls the time for de-
bate thereon.™™ Clearly, the vote on the previous question on a rule does have substantive policy impli-
cations. It is one of the only available tools 
for those who oppose the Republican major-
ity™s agenda and allows those with alter-
native views the opportunity to offer an al-
ternative plan. Mr. BURGESS. With that, Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of 
my time, and I move the previous ques-
tion on the resolution. The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on ordering the previous 
question. The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. Ms. SLAUGHTER. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays. The yeas and nays were ordered. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-ant to clause 8 and clause 9 of rule XX, 
this 15-minute vote on ordering the 
previous question will be followed by 5- 
minute votes on adoption of House Res-
olution 175, if ordered, and motion to 
suspend the rules on H.R. 360. The vote was taken by electronic de-vice, and there wereŠyeas 228, nays 
192, not voting 12, as follows: [Roll No. 121] YEASŠ228 Aderholt Alexander 
Amash 
Amodei 
Bachmann 
Bachus 
Barletta 
Barr 
Barton 
Benishek Bentivolio Bilirakis 
Bishop (UT) 
Black 
Blackburn 
Bonner 
Boustany 
Brady (TX) 
Bridenstine 
Brooks (AL) Brooks (IN) Broun (GA) 
Buchanan 
Bucshon 
Burgess 
Calvert 
Camp 
Campbell 
Cantor 
Capito VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:51 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00023Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.043H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2274 April 24, 2013 Carter Cassidy 
Chabot 
Chaffetz 
Coble Coffman 
Cole 
Collins (GA) 
Collins (NY) 
Conaway 
Cotton 
Cramer 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Daines 
Davis, Rodney 
Denham 
Dent 
DeSantis 
DesJarlais 
Diaz-Balart 
Duffy 
Duncan (SC) 
Duncan (TN) 
Ellmers 
Farenthold 
Fincher 
Fitzpatrick 
Fleischmann 
Fleming 
Forbes 
Fortenberry 
Foxx 
Franks (AZ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Gardner 
Garrett 
Gerlach 
Gibbs 
Gibson 
Gingrey (GA) 
Gohmert 
Goodlatte 
Gosar 
Gowdy 
Granger 
Graves (GA) 
Graves (MO) 
Griffin (AR) 
Griffith (VA) 
Grimm 
Guthrie 
Hall 
Hanna 
Harper 
Harris 
Hartzler 
Hastings (WA) 
Heck (NV) 
Hensarling 
Herrera Beutler 
Holding 
Hudson 
Huelskamp 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter Hurt Issa 
Jenkins 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, Sam Jones 
Jordan 
Joyce 
Kelly (PA) 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kingston 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kline 
Labrador 
LaMalfa 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Lankford 
Latham 
Latta 
LoBiondo 
Long 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Lummis 
Marchant 
Marino 
Massie 
Matheson 
McCarthy (CA) 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McHenry 
McKeon 
McKinley 
McMorris Rodgers Meadows 
Meehan 
Messer 
Mica 
Miller (FL) 
Miller (MI) 
Miller, Gary 
Mullin 
Mulvaney 
Murphy (PA) 
Neugebauer 
Noem 
Nugent 
Nunes 
Nunnelee 
Olson 
Palazzo 
Paulsen 
Pearce 
Perry 
Petri 
Pittenger 
Pitts 
Poe (TX) 
Pompeo 
Posey 
Price (GA) 
Radel 
Reed Reichert Renacci 
Ribble 
Rice (SC) 
Rigell 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rogers (MI) 
Rohrabacher 
Rokita 
Rooney 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross 
Rothfus Royce 
Runyan 
Ryan (WI) 
Salmon 
Scalise 
Schock 
Schweikert 
Scott, Austin 
Sensenbrenner 
Sessions 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Southerland 
Stewart 
Stivers 
Stockman 
Stutzman 
Terry 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tipton 
Turner 
Upton 
Valadao 
Wagner 
Walberg 
Walden 
Walorski 
Weber (TX) 
Webster (FL) 
Wenstrup 
Westmoreland 
Whitfield 
Williams 
Wilson (SC) 
Wittman 
Wolf 
Womack 
Woodall 
Yoder 
Yoho 
Young (AK) 
Young (FL) 
Young (IN) NAYSŠ192 Andrews Barber 
Barrow (GA) 
Bass 
Beatty 
Becerra 
Bera (CA) 
Bishop (GA) 
Bishop (NY) 
Blumenauer 
Bonamici 
Brady (PA) 
Braley (IA) 
Brown (FL) 
Brownley (CA) 
Bustos 
Butterfield 
Capps 
Capuano 
Ca´rdenas Carney 
Carson (IN) 
Cartwright 
Castor (FL) 
Castro (TX) 
Chu 
Cicilline 
Clarke 
Clay 
Cleaver Clyburn Cohen 
Connolly 
Conyers 
Cooper 
Costa 
Courtney 
Crowley 
Cuellar 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
Davis, Danny 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
Delaney 
DeLauro 
DelBene 
Deutch 
Doggett 
Doyle 
Duckworth 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Enyart 
Eshoo 
Esty 
Farr 
Fattah 
Foster Frankel (FL) Fudge 
Gabbard 
Gallego 
Garamendi 
Garcia 
Grayson 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Grijalva 
Gutierrez 
Hahn 
Hanabusa 
Hastings (FL) 
Heck (WA) 
Higgins 
Himes 
Holt 
Honda 
Horsford 
Hoyer 
Huffman 
Israel 
Jackson Lee 
Jeffries 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Kelly (IL) Kennedy Kildee 
Kilmer 
Kind 
Kirkpatrick 
Kuster 
Langevin 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Lee (CA) 
Levin 
Lewis 
Lipinski 
Loebsack 
Lofgren 
Lowenthal 
Lowey 
Lujan Grisham (NM) Luja´n, Ben Ray (NM) Maffei 
Maloney, Carolyn Maloney, Sean 
Matsui 
McCarthy (NY) 
McCollum 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McIntyre 
McNerney 
Meeks 
Meng 
Michaud 
Moore Moran Murphy (FL) 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Negrete McLeod 
Nolan 
O™Rourke 
Owens 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor (AZ) 
Payne 
Pelosi 
Perlmutter 
Peters (CA) 
Peters (MI) 
Peterson 
Pingree (ME) 
Pocan 
Price (NC) 
Quigley 
Rahall 
Rangel 
Richmond 
Roybal-Allard 
Ruiz 
Ruppersberger 
Rush 
Ryan (OH) 
Sa´nchez, Linda T. Sanchez, Loretta 
Sarbanes 
Schakowsky 
Schiff Schneider Schrader 
Schwartz 
Scott (VA) 
Scott, David Serrano 
Sewell (AL) 
Shea-Porter 
Sherman 
Sinema 
Sires 
Slaughter 
Smith (WA) 
Speier 
Swalwell (CA) 
Takano 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) 
Titus 
Tonko 
Tsongas 
Van Hollen 
Vargas 
Vela 
Vela´zquez Visclosky 
Walz 
Wasserman Schultz Waters 
Watt 
Waxman 
Welch 
Wilson (FL) 
Yarmuth NOT VOTINGŠ12 Cook Culberson 
Dingell 
Flores Hinojosa Lynch 
Markey 
Miller, George Polis Smith (NE) 
Tierney 
Veasey b1458 Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico and Mr. FATTAH changed 
their vote from ‚‚yea™™ to ‚‚nay.™™ So the previous question was ordered. 
The result of the vote was announced as above recorded. The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the resolution. The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. Ms. SLAUGHTER. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays. The yeas and nays were ordered. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This will be a 5-minute vote. The vote was taken by electronic de-vice, and there wereŠyeas 225, nays 
189, not voting 18, as follows: [Roll No. 122] YEASŠ225 Aderholt Alexander 
Amash 
Amodei 
Bachmann 
Bachus 
Barletta 
Barr 
Barton 
Benishek 
Bentivolio 
Bilirakis 
Bishop (UT) 
Black 
Blackburn 
Bonner 
Boustany 
Brady (TX) 
Bridenstine 
Brooks (AL) 
Brooks (IN) 
Broun (GA) 
Buchanan 
Bucshon 
Burgess 
Calvert 
Camp Campbell Cantor 
Capito 
Cassidy 
Chabot 
Chaffetz 
Coble 
Coffman 
Cole 
Collins (GA) 
Collins (NY) 
Conaway 
Cotton 
Cramer 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Daines 
Davis, Rodney 
Denham 
Dent 
DeSantis 
DesJarlais 
Diaz-Balart 
Duffy 
Duncan (SC) 
Duncan (TN) 
Ellmers Farenthold Fincher 
Fitzpatrick 
Fleischmann 
Fleming 
Forbes 
Fortenberry 
Foxx 
Franks (AZ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Gardner 
Garrett 
Gerlach 
Gibbs 
Gibson 
Gingrey (GA) 
Gohmert 
Goodlatte 
Gosar 
Gowdy 
Granger 
Graves (GA) 
Graves (MO) 
Griffin (AR) 
Griffith (VA) 
Grimm 
Guthrie Hall Hanna 
Harper 
Harris 
Hartzler Hastings (WA) 
Heck (NV) 
Hensarling 
Herrera Beutler 
Holding 
Hudson 
Huelskamp 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurt 
Issa 
Jenkins 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jones 
Jordan 
Joyce 
Kelly (PA) 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kingston 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kline 
Labrador 
LaMalfa 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Lankford 
Latham 
Latta 
LoBiondo 
Long 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Lummis 
Marchant 
Marino 
Massie 
McCarthy (CA) 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McHenry 
McKeon McKinley McMorris Rodgers Meadows 
Meehan 
Messer Mica 
Miller (FL) 
Miller (MI) 
Miller, Gary 
Mullin 
Mulvaney 
Murphy (PA) 
Neugebauer 
Noem 
Nugent 
Nunes 
Nunnelee 
Olson 
Palazzo 
Paulsen 
Pearce 
Perry 
Petri 
Pittenger 
Pitts 
Poe (TX) 
Pompeo 
Posey 
Price (GA) 
Radel 
Reed 
Reichert 
Renacci 
Ribble 
Rice (SC) 
Rigell 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rogers (MI) 
Rohrabacher 
Rokita 
Rooney 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross 
Rothfus Royce Runyan 
Ryan (WI) 
Scalise 
Schock 
Schweikert 
Scott, Austin Sensenbrenner 
Sessions 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Southerland 
Stewart 
Stivers 
Stockman 
Stutzman 
Terry 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tipton 
Turner 
Upton 
Valadao 
Wagner 
Walberg 
Walden 
Walorski 
Weber (TX) 
Webster (FL) 
Wenstrup 
Westmoreland 
Whitfield 
Williams 
Wilson (SC) 
Wittman 
Wolf 
Womack 
Woodall 
Yoder 
Yoho 
Young (AK) 
Young (FL) 
Young (IN) NAYSŠ189 Andrews Barber 
Barrow (GA) 
Beatty 
Becerra 
Bera (CA) 
Bishop (GA) 
Bishop (NY) 
Blumenauer 
Bonamici 
Brady (PA) 
Braley (IA) 
Brown (FL) 
Brownley (CA) 
Bustos 
Butterfield 
Capps 
Capuano 
Ca´rdenas Carney 
Carson (IN) 
Cartwright 
Castor (FL) 
Castro (TX) 
Chu 
Cicilline 
Clarke 
Clay 
Cleaver 
Clyburn 
Cohen 
Connolly 
Conyers 
Cooper 
Costa 
Courtney 
Crowley 
Cuellar 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
Davis, Danny 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
Delaney 
DeLauro 
DelBene 
Deutch 
Doggett Doyle Duckworth 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Enyart 
Eshoo 
Esty 
Farr 
Fattah 
Foster 
Frankel (FL) 
Fudge 
Gabbard 
Gallego 
Garamendi 
Garcia 
Grayson 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Grijalva 
Gutierrez 
Hahn 
Hanabusa 
Hastings (FL) 
Heck (WA) 
Higgins 
Himes 
Holt 
Honda 
Horsford 
Hoyer 
Huffman 
Israel 
Jackson Lee 
Jeffries 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Kelly (IL) 
Kennedy 
Kildee 
Kilmer 
Kind 
Kirkpatrick 
Kuster 
Langevin Larsen (WA) Larson (CT) 
Lee (CA) 
Levin 
Lewis 
Lipinski 
Loebsack 
Lofgren 
Lowenthal 
Lowey 
Lujan Grisham (NM) Luja´n, Ben Ray (NM) Maffei 
Maloney, Carolyn Maloney, Sean 
Matheson 
Matsui 
McCarthy (NY) 
McCollum 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McIntyre 
McNerney 
Meeks 
Michaud 
Moore 
Moran 
Murphy (FL) 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Negrete McLeod 
Nolan 
O™Rourke 
Owens 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor (AZ) 
Payne 
Pelosi 
Perlmutter 
Peters (CA) 
Peters (MI) 
Peterson 
Pingree (ME) VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:51 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00024Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\A24AP7.018H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2275 April 24, 2013 Pocan Price (NC) 
Quigley 
Rahall 
Richmond 
Ruiz 
Ruppersberger 
Rush 
Ryan (OH) 
Salmon 
Sa´nchez, Linda T. Sanchez, Loretta 
Sarbanes 
Schakowsky 
Schiff 
Schneider Schrader Schwartz 
Scott (VA) 
Scott, David 
Serrano 
Sewell (AL) 
Shea-Porter 
Sherman 
Sinema 
Sires 
Slaughter 
Smith (WA) 
Speier 
Swalwell (CA) 
Takano 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) Titus Tonko 
Tsongas 
Van Hollen 
Vargas 
Vela 
Vela´zquez Visclosky 
Walz 
Wasserman Schultz Waters 
Watt 
Waxman 
Welch 
Wilson (FL) NOT VOTINGŠ18 Bass Carter 
Cook 
Culberson 
Dingell 
Flores Hinojosa Lynch 
Markey 
Meng 
Miller, George 
Polis Rangel Roybal-Allard 
Smith (NE) 
Tierney 
Veasey 
Yarmuth b1505 So the resolution was agreed to. The result of the vote was announced as above recorded. A motion to reconsider was laid on the table. f AWARDING CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL TO ADDIE MAE COLLINS, 
DENISE MCNAIR, CAROLE ROB-ERTSON, AND CYNTHIA WESLEY The SPEAKER pro tempore. The un-finished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 360) to award posthumously a 
Congressional Gold Medal to Addie 
Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole 
Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley to com-
memorate the lives they lost 50 years 
ago in the bombing of the Sixteenth 
Street Baptist Church, where these 4 
little Black girls™ ultimate sacrifice 
served as a catalyst for the Civil 
Rights Movement, as amended, on 
which the yeas and nays were ordered. The Clerk read the title of the bill. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by 
the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. 
BACHUS) that the House suspend the rules and pass the bill, as amended. This will be a 5-minute vote. 
The vote was taken by electronic de-vice, and there wereŠyeas 420, nays 0, 
not voting 12, as follows: [Roll No. 123] YEASŠ420 Aderholt Alexander 
Amash 
Amodei 
Andrews 
Bachmann 
Bachus 
Barber 
Barletta 
Barr 
Barrow (GA) 
Barton 
Bass 
Beatty 
Becerra 
Benishek 
Bentivolio 
Bera (CA) 
Bilirakis 
Bishop (GA) 
Bishop (NY) 
Bishop (UT) 
Black Blackburn Blumenauer 
Bonamici 
Bonner 
Boustany 
Brady (PA) 
Brady (TX) 
Braley (IA) 
Bridenstine 
Brooks (AL) 
Brooks (IN) 
Broun (GA) 
Brown (FL) 
Brownley (CA) 
Buchanan 
Bucshon 
Burgess 
Bustos 
Butterfield 
Calvert 
Camp 
Campbell 
Cantor Capito Capps 
Capuano 
Ca´rdenas Carney 
Carson (IN) 
Carter 
Cartwright 
Cassidy 
Castor (FL) 
Castro (TX) 
Chabot 
Chaffetz 
Chu 
Cicilline 
Clarke 
Clay 
Cleaver 
Clyburn 
Coble 
Coffman 
Cohen 
Cole Collins (GA) Collins (NY) 
Conaway 
Connolly 
Conyers 
Cooper 
Costa 
Cotton 
Courtney 
Cramer 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Crowley 
Cuellar 
Culberson 
Cummings 
Daines 
Davis (CA) 
Davis, Danny 
Davis, Rodney 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
Delaney 
DeLauro 
DelBene 
Denham 
Dent 
DeSantis 
DesJarlais 
Deutch 
Diaz-Balart 
Doggett 
Doyle 
Duckworth 
Duffy 
Duncan (SC) 
Duncan (TN) 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Ellmers 
Engel 
Enyart 
Eshoo 
Esty 
Farenthold 
Farr 
Fattah 
Fincher 
Fitzpatrick 
Fleischmann 
Fleming Forbes 
Fortenberry 
Foster 
Foxx 
Frankel (FL) 
Franks (AZ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Fudge 
Gabbard 
Gallego 
Garamendi 
Garcia 
Gardner 
Garrett 
Gerlach 
Gibbs 
Gibson 
Gingrey (GA) 
Gohmert 
Goodlatte 
Gosar 
Gowdy 
Granger 
Graves (GA) 
Graves (MO) 
Grayson 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Griffin (AR) 
Griffith (VA) 
Grijalva 
Grimm 
Guthrie 
Gutierrez 
Hahn 
Hall 
Hanabusa 
Hanna 
Harper 
Harris 
Hartzler 
Hastings (FL) 
Hastings (WA) 
Heck (NV) 
Heck (WA) 
Hensarling 
Herrera Beutler 
Higgins Himes Holding 
Holt 
Honda 
Horsford 
Hoyer 
Hudson 
Huelskamp 
Huffman 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurt 
Israel 
Issa 
Jackson Lee 
Jeffries 
Jenkins 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Johnson, Sam 
Jones 
Jordan 
Joyce 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Kelly (IL) 
Kelly (PA) 
Kennedy 
Kildee 
Kilmer 
Kind 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kingston 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kirkpatrick 
Kline 
Kuster 
Labrador 
LaMalfa 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Langevin 
Lankford 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Latham 
Latta 
Lee (CA) Levin 
Lewis 
Lipinski 
LoBiondo 
Loebsack 
Lofgren 
Long 
Lowenthal 
Lowey 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Lujan Grisham (NM) Luja´n, Ben Ray (NM) Lummis 
Maffei 
Maloney, Carolyn Maloney, Sean 
Marchant 
Marino 
Massie 
Matheson 
Matsui 
McCarthy (CA) 
McCarthy (NY) 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McCollum 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McHenry 
McIntyre 
McKeon 
McKinley 
McMorris Rodgers McNerney 
Meadows 
Meehan 
Meeks 
Meng 
Messer 
Mica 
Michaud 
Miller (FL) 
Miller (MI) Miller, Gary Moore 
Moran 
Mullin 
Mulvaney 
Murphy (FL) 
Murphy (PA) 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Negrete McLeod 
Neugebauer 
Noem 
Nolan 
Nugent 
Nunes 
Nunnelee 
O™Rourke 
Olson 
Owens 
Palazzo 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor (AZ) 
Paulsen 
Payne 
Pearce 
Pelosi 
Perlmutter 
Perry 
Peters (CA) 
Peters (MI) 
Peterson 
Petri 
Pingree (ME) 
Pittenger 
Pitts 
Pocan 
Poe (TX) 
Pompeo 
Posey 
Price (GA) 
Price (NC) 
Quigley 
Radel 
Rahall 
Rangel 
Reed 
Reichert 
Renacci 
Ribble Rice (SC) 
Richmond 
Rigell 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rogers (MI) 
Rohrabacher 
Rokita 
Rooney 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross 
Rothfus 
Roybal-Allard 
Royce 
Ruiz 
Runyan 
Ruppersberger 
Rush 
Ryan (OH) 
Ryan (WI) 
Salmon 
Sa´nchez, Linda T. Sanchez, Loretta 
Sarbanes 
Scalise 
Schakowsky 
Schiff 
Schneider 
Schock 
Schrader 
Schwartz 
Schweikert 
Scott (VA) 
Scott, Austin 
Scott, David 
Sensenbrenner 
Serrano 
Sessions 
Sewell (AL) 
Shea-Porter 
Sherman 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Simpson Sinema Sires 
Slaughter 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Smith (WA) 
Southerland 
Speier 
Stewart 
Stivers 
Stockman 
Stutzman 
Swalwell (CA) 
Takano 
Terry 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi Tipton Titus 
Tonko 
Tsongas 
Turner 
Upton 
Valadao 
Van Hollen 
Vargas 
Vela 
Vela´zquez Visclosky 
Wagner 
Walberg 
Walden 
Walz 
Wasserman Schultz Waters 
Watt Waxman Weber (TX) 
Webster (FL) 
Welch 
Wenstrup 
Westmoreland 
Whitfield 
Williams 
Wilson (FL) 
Wilson (SC) 
Wittman 
Wolf 
Womack 
Woodall 
Yarmuth 
Yoder 
Yoho 
Young (AK) 
Young (FL) 
Young (IN) NOT VOTINGŠ12 Cook 
Dingell 
Flores 
Hinojosa Lynch Markey 
Miller, George 
Polis Smith (NE) Tierney 
Veasey 
Walorski b1514 So (two-thirds being in the affirma-tive) the rules were suspended and the 
bill, as amended, was passed. The result of the vote was announced as above recorded. A motion to reconsider was laid on the table. PERSONALEXPLANATION
 Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, on rollcall No. 121 on the ordering of the previous question 
for H. Res. 175, I am not recorded because I 
was absent due to a death in the family. Had 
I been present, I would have voted ‚‚aye.™™ On rollcall No. 122 on adoption of H. Res. 175, the rule providing for consideration of 
H.R. 1549, I am not recorded because I was 
absent due to a death in the family. Had I 
been present, I would have voted ‚‚aye.™™ On rollcall No. 123 on final passage of H.R. 360, I am not recorded because I was absent 
due to a death in the family. Had I been 
present, I would have voted ‚‚aye.™™ f AUTHORIZING THE SPEAKER TO DECLARE A RECESS ON WEDNES-
DAY, MAY 8, 2013, FOR THE PUR-
POSE OF RECEIVING IN JOINT 
MEETING HER EXCELLENCY 
PARK GEUN-HYE, PRESIDENT OF 
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Madam Speak-er, I ask unanimous consent that it 
may be in order at any time on 
Wednesday, May 8, 2013, for the Speak-
er to declare a recess, subject to the 
call of the Chair, for the purpose of re-
ceiving in Joint Meeting Her Excel-
lency Park Geun-hye, President of the 
Republic of Korea. The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Florida? There was no objection. f CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL LEGISLATION IN HONOR OF VIC-
TIMS OF SIXTEENTH STREET 
BAPTIST CHURCH BOMBING 
PASSES UNANIMOUSLY (Ms. SEWELL asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 minute.) Ms. SEWELL. Madam Speaker, today I just want to thank this body for pass-
ing this profound Congressional Gold VerDate Mar 15 2010 03:24 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00025Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\A24AP7.019H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2276 April 24, 2013 Medal in honor of the four little girls who lost their lives in the bombing of 
the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church. I 
just want to acknowledge my sincere 
appreciation to the leadership of both 
parties in getting this Congressional 
Gold Medal on the floor. We have in our presence two sisters of two of the deceased four little girls. 
I think I speak on behalf of the whole 
State of Alabama and our Alabama del-
egation when I say a profound thank 
you for this body. I know that everyone 
here is mighty appreciative of the sac-
rifices that their families have made in 
order for our great Nation to live up to 
its true ideals of justice and equality 
for all, and I think that it™s befitting if 
we all stand and clap. A unanimous vote is truly a victory for all of us. f TAX CODE LIBERATION DAY (Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
her remarks.) Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Madam Speak-er, the case for tax reform was never 
made more clear when Americans re-
cently struggled to fill out their in-
creasingly complicated income tax 
forms. What we really need now is Tax 
Code Liberation Day. Our convoluted Tax Code has become a major obstacle to individual freedom, 
which must be removed as soon as pos-
sible. It prevents small businesses from 
hiring more workers in what is now a 
nearly dead economic recovery. The burden of preparing your taxes is now nearly as onerous as actually pay-
ing for the taxes. It takes 13 hours for 
the average American to prepare his or 
her taxes. The Tax Code remains al-
most 4 million words, many of which 
are incomprehensible. We must all work together to free small businesses and individuals of the 
most complex regulation of them allŠ 
the Federal Income Tax Code. f KERMIT GOSNELL MURDER TRIAL (Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and 
extend his remarks.) Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I rise today, along with several of my 
pro-life colleagues, to bring attention 
to the ongoing trial of Kermit Gosnell, 
an abortionist from Philadelphia. 
Gosnell is accused of murdering, in the 
third degree, a woman who died during 
an abortion at his clinic, and first de-
gree murder of four infants who sur-
vived abortions and were born alive, 
only to have their spinal cords severed 
by a pair of scissors. In the words of the grand jury report: Gosnell had a simple solution for unwanted babies: he killed them. He didn™t call it that. 
He called it ‚‚ensuring fetal demise.™™ I™m horrified by the lack of respect this doctor has for human life, and I™m appalled by the minimal media cov-erage of the Gosnell trial. I™m hopeful 
that the disturbing images revealed by 
this trial will raise awareness of the 
gruesome practices of the abortion in-
dustry and help to prevent the tragic 
ending of human life that occurs every 
day at abortion clinics across this 
country. f HELPING SICK AMERICANS NOW ACT (Mr. MCKINLEY asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) Mr. MCKINLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the Helping 
Sick Americans Now Act. I cosponsored this legislation because it addresses something that is particu-
larly important to Republicans and 
Democrats alike: providing care for 
those who need it most. I strongly opposed ObamaCare and have supported the efforts to repeal it; 
however, it™s the law of the land. In it, 
the President and Congress made a 
promise to help Americans with pre-
existing conditions. The President has 
broken this promise when he con-
sciously cut off access to the program 
dealing with preexisting conditions and 
left tens of thousands of Americans 
with nowhere to turn for their health 
care. To many Americans, this is typ-
ical of Washington: empty gestures and 
broken promises. This has to stop. We have a chance to help people get the care they were promised by taking 
money from a wasteful slush fund. I in-
tend to uphold the promise the Presi-
dent once made and now has broken. I 
urge my colleagues to do the same and 
vote for this commonsense legislation. f b1520 HELPING SICK AMERICANS NOW ACT (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, the House will begin discussing in the next 
day the legislation called Helping Sick 
Americans Now Act, and I would only 
offer a counter to that that it seems a 
sick way to try and help those who are 
in need. This bill will deplete the healthy pre-ventive care funding that impacts the 
Centers for Disease Control, that im-
pacts the federally qualified health 
clinics that are all throughout our 
community, and it only provides fund-
ing for the sickest of Americans up 
until December 2013. Why don™t we en-
courage the Governors, like Governor 
Perry of Texas, to accept expanded 
Medicaid to help heal 6 million and 
provide health care for 6 million unin-
sured in Texas, the highest number of 
uninsured in any State. This is a temporary fix that is not necessary. We have the Affordable Care 
Act that is being implemented; and, as we speak, millions of Americans are being covered. This is the wrong way, 
misdirected, and I might say it is a 
sick way of trying to help the sickest 
of Americans. I oppose the bill. f NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL STRAT-EGYŠMESSAGE FROM THE 
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED 
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 113Œ20) The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. BARR) laid before the House the fol-lowing message from the President of 
the United States; which was read and, 
together with the accompanying pa-
pers, referred to the Committees on 
Energy and Commerce, Education and 
the Workforce, Veterans™ Affairs, 
Armed Services, the Judiciary, Natural 
Resources, Financial Services, Home-
land Security, Oversight and Govern-
ment Reform, Ways and Means, For-
eign Affairs, Transportation and Infra-
structure, and Intelligence (Permanent 
Select) and ordered to be printed: To the Congress of the United States: I am please to trasmit the 2013 Na-tional Drug Control Strategy, my Admin-istration™s blueprint for reducing drug 
use and its consequences in the United 
States. As detailed in the pages that 
follow, my Administration remains 
committed to a balanced public health 
and public safety approach to drug pol-
icy. This approach is based on science, 
not ideologyŠand scientific research 
suggests that we have made real 
progress. The rate of current cocaine use in the United States has dropped by 50 per-
cent since 2006, and methamphetamine 
use has declined by one-third. New data 
released this year suggest that we are 
turning a corner in our efforts to ad-
dress the epidemic of prescription drug 
abuse, with the number of people abus-
ing prescription drugs decreasing by 
nearly 13 percentŠfrom 7 million in 2010 to 6.1 million in 2011. And the num-
ber of Americans reporting that they 
drove after using illicit drugs also 
dropped by 12 percent between 2010 and 
2011. While this progress is encouraging, we must sustain our commitment to 
preventing drug use before it startsŠ 
the most cost-effective way to address 
the drug problem. The importance of 
prevention is becoming ever more ap-
parent. Despite positive trends in other 
areas, we continue to see elevated rates 
of marijuana use among young people, 
likely driven by declines in perceptions 
of risk. We must continue to get the 
facts out about the health risks of drug 
use and support the positive influences 
in young people™s lives that help them 
avoid risky behaviors. The Strategy that follows presents a sophisticated approach to a com-
plicated problem, encompassing pre-
vention, early intervention, treatment, 
recovery support, criminal justice re-
form, effective law enforcement, and 
international cooperation. I look forward to working with the Congress and stakeholders at all levels VerDate Mar 15 2010 03:24 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00026Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.052H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2277 April 24, 2013 in advancing this 21st century ap-proach to drug policy. BARACKOBAMA.THEWHITEHOUSE, April 24, 2013. f HELPING SICK AMERICANS NOW ACT (Mr. CONYERS asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.) Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I want-ed to begin our discussion with H.R. 
1549, which will be up tomorrow, Help-
ing Sick Americans Now Act. I am not supporting this bill because the bill™s proposals are counterintu-
itive to the anticipated outcome of the 
Prevention and Public Health Fund. 
This legislation strips 4 years of fund-
ing from the prevention fund to pay for 
a very short extension of a new enroll-
ment in the preexisting condition in-
surance plan. Further, the bill insists on a partisan offset that effectively eliminates the 
Prevention and Public Health Fund 
through 2016 to, instead, reopen the 
Federal High-Risk Pool Program pro-
vided by the Affordable Care Act 
through the end of the year. While I support reopening the high- risk pool, I cannot support how this 
bill goes about creating the funding. f ENERGY INDEPENDENCE The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker™s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2013, the gentleman from Ohio 
(Mr. JOHNSON) is recognized for 60 min-utes as the designee of the majority 
leader. GENERALLEAVE
 Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in 
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material 
on the subject of my Special Order. The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Ohio? There was no objection. 
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, it™s good to be in the people™s House 
this afternoon to talk about a topic 
that is of utmost concern to the Amer-
ican peopleŠenergy. What does it mean 
for America? We all put gas in our cars, 
we all heat and cool our homes, busi-
nesses across this country power their 
manufacturing processes. So what does 
energy mean for today and for the fu-
ture of our country? I™m proud to be a member of the House Energy Action Team because we 
understand the critical role that do-
mestic-energy production plays not 
only today, but in the future of our 
country. Let me give an example of 
why this is so important. I remember one of the very first memorable events that occurred in 
March of 2011 in my first term. We were 
addressed here in this Chamber by the Prime Minister of Australia. And in her remarks she commented, she said: 
‚‚I remember being a young girl, sitting 
on the floor of my living room, watch-
ing Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin 
land on the Moon.™™ She went on to 
talk about how America and Australia 
had stood side by side, how America 
had actually stood in front of and pro-
tected Australia during some of the 
darkest days of World War II in the Pa-
cific. b1530 At the end of her speech, she said, ‚‚Back when I was a little girl and 
when I saw that Moon landing, I 
thought to myself, wow, those Ameri-
cans can do anything.™™ She wrapped up 
her comments by saying, ‚‚Today, as 
Prime Minister of Australia, with a lot 
of experience under my belt, I still be-
lieve that Americans can do anything.™™ When you stop and think about the Moon landingŠand I know you™re going 
to say, Well, what does that have to do 
with energy? I™m getting to that. Presi-
dent Kennedy gave us a vision of put-
ting a man on the Moon in 10 years. We 
didn™t make it in 10 years. We made it 
in less than 10 years. The reason that 
we did was that every fabric of our so-
ciety bought into the ideaŠacademic 
institutions, the scientific community. 
Industries cropped up overnight. Mil-
lions of jobs were created. Young peo-
ple lined up to get into academic pro-
grams in which they could major in de-
grees that would prepare them for ca-
reers in space exploration. At the end of the dayŠactually, we™re not at the end of the dayŠwe™re 
still benefiting from the innovation 
and the technological advance that 
came out of that era. It was a time 
when America™s imagination was cap-
tivated by what many thought was im-
possible and by what the rest of the 
world didn™t really think we could do. 
You look at what has happened since 
we started that journeyŠat all of the 
technological innovations that have 
occurred: cell phones, flat-screen TVs, 
GPS, even arthroscopic surgery. We 
had to learn to perform medical proce-
dures on space travelers in a way that 
was noninvasive, and medical experts 
began to think about ‚‚how do we do 
that in outer space?™™ So we learned 
how to dream, and that goal to put a 
man on the Moon captivated America™s 
imagination. I want you to think for a second about what would happen if America 
once again embarked on a journey of 
that magnitude. I believe a journey to 
become energy independent and secure 
in America is just such a journey that 
we could embark on. A vision of energy 
independence and security would not 
only captivate the imagination of the 
American people but it would put 
America back to work at a time when 
our economy is in such desperate need 
of private-sector economic growth. 
Imagine what would happen if we had a 
national energy vision that sounded 
something like this: We™re going to go after the vast vol-umes of oil and natural gas that we 
have. In many experts™ opinions, we™ve 
got more of it than anyone else has in 
the world. We™re going to expand our 
nuclear footprint because nuclear en-
ergy is one of the safest, most reliable 
forms of energy on the planet. We 
brought that to the world, and we 
know how to do it. We™re going to con-
tinue to mine coal, and we™re going to 
learn how to use it environmentally 
soundly because we™ve got enough coal 
to fuel our energy needs for genera-
tions yet to come. We™re even going to embrace alter-native forms of energyŠbiofuels, wind 
and solar. Now, they™re not going to 
meet our heavy lifting energy needs for 
the foreseeable future, but there is a 
role that they play in our overall en-
ergy profile. We™re going to back that 
up with action with the regulatory 
community and tell the regulators at 
the EPA and the Department of the In-
terior and at the Army Corps of Engi-
neers: effective today, you start being 
partners in progress with America™s en-
ergy industries. Rather than being the 
department of ‚‚no,™™ learn how to find 
a way forward. If a particular project 
or if a particular technology presents 
concerns, then let™s address those con-
cerns, but ‚‚no™™ should not be the final 
answer. We™ve learned through the lessons of putting a man on the Moon that, when 
Americans are allowed to dream, when 
they™re allowed to innovate, when 
they™re allowed to compete, there is 
nothing that we can™t solve. Why is energy independence and se-curity so important? First of all, it™s 
important because of national security. 
Right now, today, we are beholden to 
some countries that don™t like us very 
much for our energy resources. Why do 
we want to continue to do that when 
we have the resources right here at 
home to be able to solve that problem? In order to captivate the imagination of the American people, we™ve got to 
help the American people understand 
why this is so important to them. We 
talk about energy in terms of very im-
portant projects like the Keystone XL 
pipeline of which the President, him-
self, said that the environmental con-
cerns were overexaggerated, so let™s get 
the project approved. Yet we talk about it in technical termsŠpipelines, hydraulic fracturing, 
oil rigs, nuclear reactors, uranium en-
richment. What does all of that mean 
to American taxpayersŠto working 
Americans who are just struggling day 
in and day out to make ends meet? Here is what it means: 
Take a manufacturing process, the manufacturing of cereal, Pop-TartsŠ 
you name it, whatever our children 
consume today. When domestic energy 
costs are reduced, those manufacturing 
costs to produce those goods are also 
reduced. When the price of diesel fuel 
goes down and when the cost of the 
transportation to transport those 
goods from the manufacturers to the VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:51 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00027Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\A24AP7.028H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2278 April 24, 2013 grocery stores goes down, those savings are passed on in the costs of the prod-
ucts to the consumers. When working 
mothers and single moms and single 
dads who are trying to make ends 
meetŠwho are trying to figure out how 
they™re going to put kids through col-
lege, how they™re going to buy the next 
pair of tennis shoesŠare balancing the 
checkbooks and when they see that 
their energy costs to heat and to cool 
their homes are going down and that 
they™re paying less to fill up their cars 
to go back and forth to work, that 
translates into economic confidence to 
do the kinds of things that we were 
able to do during that remarkable pe-
riod of putting a man on the Moon. Today, we™ve got a lot of naysayers out there who simply don™t understand 
how important this is, this idea of en-
ergy independence and security to the 
American people, and they™re trying to 
frighten the American people. Hydraulic fracturing, my goodness. We™ve been doing hydraulic fracturing 
in America for over 60 years, over a 
million such operations. A former EPA 
administrator, herself, acknowledged 
there has not been a single incident in 
which hydraulic fracturing has con-
taminated the water table. Yet the 
EPA is working hard to try and insert 
itself into a process that many, many 
States are already doing and are al-
ready doing very well. Take, for exam-
ple, the State of Ohio where I come 
from. Literally, my district sits on top 
of the Marcellus and the Utica shales, 
one of the world™s largest reservoirs of 
oil and natural gas. b1540 The State of Ohio has been regu-lating the oil and gas industry since 
1965. We™re among those States that 
have done a lot of hydraulic fracturing, 
and yet again there is not one proven 
instance where that process has con-
taminated drinking water, yet you™ve 
got those that sit on the sidelines and 
try to frighten homeowners, try to 
frighten those people that live in Appa-
lachian Ohio that their water is going 
to be contaminated. It™s not. It™s a 
proven process. And just over the last 5 years, we™ve developed technology called horizontal 
hydraulic fracturing, where we can go 
down a mile and then go out hori-
zontally another mile, sometimes 
more, and have much more of that 
vital resource of oil and natural gas 
flowing to the surface, resources that 
are going to move America one step 
closer to energy independence and se-
curity. Mr. Speaker, we™ve got an oppor-tunity to put America back in charge 
of our economic destiny and an energy 
vision that is a real all-of-the-above 
energy vision for this country. It™s 
what America needs. At this time, I™d like to yield time to my colleague from South Carolina (Mr. 
DUNCAN). Mr. DUNCAN of South Carolina. Folks in South Carolina are concerned about where we are with energy in this country. Energy independence is some-
thing that™s on the minds of folks back 
home. You know, I drive a diesel truck, and the gentleman from Ohio was talking 
about diesel fuel just recently. When I 
was at the fuel pump recently fueling 
my truck with diesel fuel, I was paying 
about $3.85 a gallon. It dawned on me, 
as I watched the 18-wheelers roll by 
coming from the pumps where they 
filled up, that if we were able to really 
achieve American energy independence 
and we were able to lower the cost at 
the pump for America™s truckers and 
all of America™s familiesŠbut I use 
trucking as an example. If we could 
truly lower the cost of diesel fuel for 
America™s truckers by just $1, if we 
could produce enough American energy 
resources to lower diesel fuel from that 
$3.85 a gallon that I was paying down to 
$2.85 a gallonŠthose 18-wheelers that 
were rolling by I believe had 400-gallon 
diesel tanks. Think about that, America. Think about if that truck or that trucking 
company was able to save $400 per fill- 
up for that 18-wheeler, and think about 
the number of trucks you pass on 
America™s interstates and highway sys-
tems. If we could save that, think 
about the trickle-down effect that that 
would have for consumer products. We™re not just talking about gasoline and diesel fuel. The American hydro-
carbons that are produced when they™re 
refined, they™re refined into a lot of dif-
ferent products. And I would ask folks 
to research what a barrel of hydro-
carbon or fossil fuel, oil, when you put 
that under extreme pressure, the heat 
created, how it separates out and all 
the different products that come from 
a barrel of oil. It™s an amazing compo-
nent that God has given us. In South Carolina, we understand that the Nation can achieve American 
energy independence; but we also un-
derstand that if we can™t have Amer-
ican energy independence, why not an 
all-American energy strategy where we 
work with our neighbors to the north, 
our largest and best trading partner, 
the Canadians, or we work with the 
Mexicans and the folks to the south 
with a transboundary agreement; allow 
that area where the boundary between 
Mexico and the United States is, that 
we can drill in that area and we have 
an agreement for revenue sharing on 
the oil produced there. But let™s go back to our neighbors in the north, our largest and best trading 
partner. The former speaker of the 
house from South Carolina, David Wil-
kins, was Ambassador to Canada under 
the Bush administration. I spent a lot 
of time with Speaker Wilkins, Ambas-
sador Wilkins, and we talked about 
Canada and we talked about the oil 
sands. This was before the Keystone XL 
pipeline. But let™s focus on the Keystone XL pipeline to bring that Canadian oil to 
American refineries that are sitting 
there with the capacity to refine that Canadian oil. What do I mean by capac-ity? It™s idle capacity. It™s capacity 
that could be utilized to refine Amer-
ican resources or Canadian resources 
coming down to those refineries, refin-
ing that into the products that we 
enjoy as America. That™s why the Keystone XL pipeline is so important. Let™s put Americans to 
work. We hear a lot about job creation 
and putting Americans to work. Well, 
this truly would. Mr. Speaker, this 
Keystone XL pipeline would put Ameri-
cans to work in those refineries, refin-
ing that oil into all the chemicals and 
gasoline products and everything that 
we use out of a barrel of hydrocarbons 
or a barrel of oil. The Keystone pipe-
line is something that should happen in 
this country. The opponents on the other side say: Well, that oil is just going to flow from 
Canada. It™s going to flow through the 
United States. It™s going to go to our 
refineries. But those contracts have 
been let, and that oil and those gaso-
line products are going to be used in 
other markets. It will not do anything 
to affect the price at the pump here. That™s what the other side says. 
Here™s a simple economic example: 
It™s supply and demand. Global de-mand is high right now, and the supply 
is low. The supply is low for a lot of 
reasons: the OPEC cartel and other 
things. Policies, moratoriums, and 
other things from this administration 
keep global supply down. Let™s assume that the oil from Can-ada does flow through the United 
States, refined at our refineries, and 
does flow out of this country. So what? 
That increased supply will meet the in-
creased demand. And by meeting that 
demand, that will drive the price down, 
not only for Americans, but for every-
one across the globe. It™s the right thing to do to put Americans to work to refine that oil 
into those products at American refin-
eries. It™s true job creation. While we™re on the subject of job cre-ation, Mr. Speaker, and the gentleman 
that™s heading up the House Energy 
Action Team, which is focused on an 
all-American energy strategy and 
American energy independence, while 
we™re talking about job creation, let™s 
talk about my State of South Carolina. We™ve been excluded in the next 5- year plan, the plan that would allow 
offshore drilling off our coast on the 
Outer Continental Shelf. Right now, 
folks, the whole Atlantic shelf is off 
limits to drilling, with the exception of 
a very proactive State of Virginia, 
which has been able to include Vir-
ginia™s offshore area in the next 5-year 
plan. We™ll see if that comes to fru-
ition. But South Carolina is sitting there saying, with a lot of the other Atlantic 
States, We believe we have some re-
sources off our coast. We believe 
there™s natural gas off the coast of 
South Carolina. Let™s allow South 
Carolina™s offshore area to be included 
in the next 5-year plan. VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:51 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00028Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.055H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2279 April 24, 2013 What does that mean? Does that mean we™re going to rush right out 
there and punch a hole in the Earth 
and start producing? Maybe; maybe 
not. What it does mean is that it al-
lows that exploration. It allows those 
energy companies to say: You know 
what? That area is going to be opened 
up. We haven™t explored out there in 30 
years. It was 30-year-old technology 
when we went out there before. Let™s 
go out there with new technology. 
Let™s find out what sort of resources 
might be off the coast of South Caro-
lina on the Outer Continental Shelf of 
the Atlantic seaboard. Let™s go out 
there. Let™s find out what might be 
there, and let™s start producing that. You know what happens when we do start producing? I just ask you to drive 
down to Louisiana and get on Highway 
90 from Lafayette down to New Iberia 
and down to Houma and Thibodaux and 
those areas. You get on that four-lane 
highway, Mr. JOHNSON, and you ride down that highway, on both sides of 
the four-lane highway, business after 
business after business after business 
after businessŠand I could go on and 
on. These are businesses that aren™t 
out there actually doing the drilling 
because those lease sales were to 
ExxonMobil or Halliburton or some of 
those companies. These are the service 
companies that are servicing offshore 
drilling. Think about this for a minute. Think about the guys that are using the 
barges and the offshore boats that 
carry the service boats that are taking 
the drilling mud and the casing and the 
piping and the diesel fuel for the gen-
erators and the food and the personnel 
and everything else that goes offshore 
out to the platform. Then think about 
this: they™re companies on shore. 
They™re running trucks up and down 
the road that need truck repair; they 
need body repair. We need pipe welders 
and pipe fitters. Like I said, business after business after business there in Louisiana is 
helping the offshore industry. b1550 And South Carolina is sitting there going, Well, you know what? If we al-
lowed drilling offshore and we allowed 
this to happen on the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf, then maybe those busi-
nesses would come to South CarolinaŠ 
the service boats, the drilling mud, the 
providers of the onshore pipe fitters 
and pipe boilers. And you know what? 
Those guys have to eat. And so they 
fill up the local restaurants and they 
shop at the local Piggly Wiggly. And 
guess what. They give to the United 
Way and they give to the local church, 
and it™s a trickle-down economy when 
you™ve got people working and you™ve 
people creating businesses and pro-
viding income to an economy. When we think about an all-Amer-ican, energy-independent energy struc-
ture, we need to think about all of the 
jobs that are created through that 
American energy independence; and it™s not just the guys that are doing the offshore drilling, and it™s not just the 
guys that are doing the hydraulic frac-
turing here. That is a tremendous com-
ponent, and it™s working in Pennsyl-
vania, and should be working in south-
ern New York. It™s working in Ohio. 
It™s producing resources. When we talk about energy, we focus a lot right now on North Dakota. North 
Dakota, my gosh, it™s a microcosm of 
what we could be in this country if we 
truly pursued an American energy pol-
icy. North Dakota, 3 percent unem-
ployment or less. Some say it™s a nega-
tive unemployment. I say, when you 
get off an airplane in North Dakota, 
they give you a job whether you need 
one or not. You talk about a lack of 
housing; they don™t have housing for 
people coming up there to take the 
jobs. If you need a job in America and 
you™re willing to travel to North Da-
kota, you can go up and get $70,000 a 
year driving a water truck. Jobs are 
created. North Dakota, a microcosm of what we could be in this country if we truly 
pursued an all-American energy policy, 
and that includes hydraulic fracturing. 
That includes drilling on Federal land 
that is currently off-limits to energy 
exploration, energy production, but it™s 
also off-limits to wind and solar. Fed-
eral land that you ownŠAmerica. The 
American taxpayers own this Federal 
land, and it ought to be utilized to the 
maximum benefit for American tax-
payers. Folks, we can reduce our fuel prices at the pump. We can reduce your prices 
for electricity at home, and that™s 
through an American energy policy 
that™s truly all of the above. And so I appreciate the gentleman from Ohio leading this leadership hour, 
giving me an opportunity to speak 
about something that I am very pas-
sionate about, and that is an all-Amer-
ican energy policy that produces re-
sources here, lessens our dependence on 
the Middle East, lessens our depend-
ence on the OPEC cartel, truly trades 
with our neighbors to the north and 
the south, and approaches true inde-
pendence. Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. I thank my colleague from South Carolina, and at 
this time I yield to our chairman from 
Texas (Mr. SMITH). Mr. SMITH of Texas. Madam Speak-er, I thank the gentleman from Ohio 
for yielding me time. As chairman of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, I would 
like to focus my remarks on the role of 
science and technology in Republicans™ 
all-of-the-above energy strategy. The Science Committee has over-sight responsibility in two relevant 
areas. The committee oversees $8.5 bil-
lion of the Department of Energy™s re-
search and development funding. If we want to ensure that Americans have access to the affordable and reli-
able energy they need, we must 
strengthen DOE scientific research pro-
grams and EPA scientific integrity principles. And that is what we intend to do this Congress. As part of this process, the Science Committee expects to reauthorize the 
America COMPETES Act. A central 
component of that legislation is $5 bil-
lion to the Department of Energy Of-
fice of Science, which maintains world- 
class research facilities through the 
National Laboratories. The office also 
supports innovative research that will 
help transform how we produce and 
consume energy. We will also pursue energy legisla-tion that improves prioritization and 
management of specific programs, from 
energy efficiency and renewable energy 
to nuclear, coal, oil, and natural gas. The Science Committee recently re-ceived testimony that highlighted the 
massive costs and duplication of Fed-
eral subsidies for alternate forms of en-
ergy. The administration should not 
pick winners and give subsidies to fa-
vored companies that promote uncom-
petitive technologies. This too often 
leads to waste and bankruptcy, as we 
witnessed with Solyndra and other 
companies. Instead, we should focus 
our resources on research and develop-
ment that will produce technologies 
that will enable alternative energy 
sources to become economically com-
petitive without the need for subsidies. Finally, we need to fix the EPA, which continues to levy numerous reg-
ulations that burden employers. Under 
the Obama administration, the EPA 
has aggressively sought to regulate 
nearly every aspect of the energy in-
dustry. It implements rules that bur-
den employers and kill jobs. Insulting 
the taxpayers who fund the EPA, the 
administration refuses to release the 
scientific data upon which these bur-
densome regulations are based. This is 
entirely inconsistent with the Presi-
dent™s stated commitment to lead the 
most open and transparent administra-
tion in history. The committee will 
continue to work to ensure that the 
EPA lives up to the President™s trans-
parency standard. The American people 
deserve to know all the facts, particu-
larly since EPA regulations on the en-
ergy sector have a direct impact on 
their daily lives. For example, the EPA has opposed a technological innovation that provides 
good-paying jobs for many Americans. 
The fracking revolution is changing 
the nature of American energy produc-
tion. Hundreds of communities directly 
benefit from the economic turnaround 
due to energy production made possible 
by the fracking technology. These loca-
tions range from North Dakota to 
Pennsylvania to Texas. These States™ 
household income growth and low un-
employment is a direct result of revo-
lutionary technology developments 
combined with sound energy policy and 
oversight at the State level. Madam Speaker, on the Science Com-mittee, we aim to ensure that Ameri-
cans reap the benefits of this current 
energy technology revolution, and the 
Science Committee will do its part. VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:51 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00029Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.057H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2280 April 24, 2013 Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. Madam Speaker, may I inquire how much time 
we have remaining? The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs. BLACK). The gentleman has 31 minutes remaining. Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. Madam Speaker, at this time I would like to 
yield to my colleague from Virginia 
(Mr. GRIFFITH). Mr. GRIFFITH of Virginia. Thank you so much for yielding as we talk 
about the importance of American en-
ergy independence and using all of our 
fuels and all of the above. I know that 
we all want to use all of the above, but 
there are a lot of people who want to 
put regulations so strict on coal that 
you can™t use it anymore. I hold up for you tonight the com-memorative scissors that I used to cut 
the ribbon, along with a number of 
other people, at the Dominion Re-
sources power plant in Virginia City, 
Virginia. And it wasn™t 10 years ago; it 
wasn™t 5 years ago. It was last Sep-
tember. That plant would not be able to be built today if the regulations proposed 
by the EPA are actually adopted. 
Those would be the regulations relat-
ing to greenhouse gases, including car-
bon dioxide. When that plant was opened, they were so proud, and rightfully so. They 
had spent a lot of money, and they had 
the best technology availableŠthe best 
technology available in the worldŠone 
of the cleanest plants ever opened to 
create electric power at a reasonable 
cost using the natural resources that 
God gave the United States of America, 
to use our coal supply in an appro-
priate, efficient manner. Now, everybody says coal is dirty and we shouldn™t use it; but we can use it in 
clean ways, like they™re doing in the 
Dominion plant. I would also point out 
to you that as we send jobs away, are 
we really making any progress? I note from one of the reports we™ve gotten from the Energy and Commerce 
Committee that at one point in time 
not too long ago the United Mine 
Workers estimated that job losses with 
the EPA targeting coal units due to 
utility MACT and tighter greenhouse 
gas standards could cost us more than 
50,000 direct jobs in the coal, utility, 
and rail industries; and indirectly, a 
figure costing us jobs of more than 
250,000 jobs lost. That doesn™t make a lot of sense be-cause what we™re doing is we™re making 
it impossible to use our coal, where we, 
in fact, have the largest reserves of 
anyplace in the world. We are the 
Saudi Arabia of coal, and we don™t 
want to use it, but many of the other 
nations of the world, including China, 
do want to use coal, and they are using 
coal. What™s interesting about that is, 
when you look at that, looking at a re-
port from the Sustainable Use of Coal 
and Pollution Control Policy in China, 
dated 2009Šand this was a group of 
folks looking at what they can to do to 
continue to use coal in China; it™s an international group trying to figure out what to doŠthey point out that, in 
China, the fraction of power capacity 
with unit scale smaller than 100 
megawatts is 24.8 percent in 2007, while 
it is only 7 percent in the U.S. in 2007. 
The average coal consumption per unit 
powered electricity supply in China is 
11 percent higher than that of Japan. b1600 So what we™re looking at is a situa-tion where they™re using more coal to 
produce the same power than we are, 
by about 24.8 percent for them and 7 
percent in the United States. And when 
you get down to the pollution, you™re 
looking at 30 percent to 150 percent 
higher than that in the United States. Further, they go on to talk about the boilers, related to the maximum 
achievable control technology in boil-
ers. And it says normally the thermal 
efficiency for boilers is between 72 and 
80 percent, which is close to the design 
level of developed countries. But, in reality, most of the actual thermal efficiencies are between 60 to 
65 percent, which means they™re 10 to 15 
percent lower than the identified ther-
mal efficiencies of boilers, which 
means, in effect, they™re 30 to 40 per-
cent less efficient, 30 to 50 percent less 
efficient than boilers in most of the de-
veloped countries. So here™s what we™re doing, folks. We™re taking the jobs from the United 
States; we™re sending them over to 
China and other countries like India and so forth. They™re producing the 
electricity to produce the goods that 
we used to produce in the United 
States. They™re doing it less effi-
ciently; they™re creating more pollu-
tion. And, as a NASA study showed, it 
takes 10 days to get from the middle of 
the Gobi Desert, for that air to trans-
port across the Pacific, 10 days from 
the middle of the Gobi Desert in China 
to the Eastern Shore of Virginia. Folks, we have to be careful with the policies we make here. We all want 
clean air. We all want clean water. But 
we also want jobs, and we have to rec-
ognize the United States cannot solve 
this problem by itself. We must solve it 
with others working with us; and when 
they™re not willing to start down that 
path and to make a good-faith effort, 
we have to recognize that we should be 
as efficient as we can be. But we shouldn™t be killing American jobs based on American energy when 
we know we can do it better and have 
less pollution than they can do it in 
other parts of the world. Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. I thank my colleague. I yield some time now to our 
colleague from Texas (Mr. 
FARENTHOLD). Mr. FARENTHOLD. Madam Speaker, I rise today to point out that afford-
able American-made energy is the key 
to economic growth, economic develop-
ment, and bringing this country out of 
the grips of the tough economic types 
that we™re in. I™m blessed to represent south Texas. The district I represent covers some land that™s part of the Eagle Ford Shale. There™s a big oil and gas play 
going on there. You know, it™s not just the oilmen that are doing well. It™s the res-
taurateurs that are doing well. I™ve 
never seen so many brand-new white 
pickup trucks. Some of this Texas oil 
and gas money is helping out the folks 
in Detroit: General Motors, Dodge, 
Ford. Some of these guys are even buy-
ing the Toyota trucks made in San An-
tonio, Texas. It™s an economic boom where we™re actually struggling to find people to 
work. You can go to work in a fast-food 
restaurant for $15 because they™re com-
peting with the oil and gas industry. And you know what else is hap-pening? The low-cost natural gas that™s abun-dantly available, they™re saying 100 
years™ supply in Texas is creating new 
factories for manufacturing. In Corpus 
Christi alone, we™ve got two different 
steel mills coming in and using that 
gas to fire their plant. We™re looking at 
a new plastics facility coming in. And numerous other industries throughout the entire Texas coast, and 
even further inland, are realizing that 
affordable, American-made energy 
makes the United States competitive 
again. Even with the higher wages that 
we pay our employees in countries like 
China, with our low-cost energy, we 
can beat that. Natural gas in the United States, es-pecially in south Texas, we™re in the $4 
range. If you were to buy that same 
natural gas and have it in Japan, it™s 
$18. We™ve got a huge opportunity here. 
We™ve got a huge economic advantage. House Republicans, myself included, we support an all-of-the-above energy, 
and the technology is going to come. 
We™re going to get the technology for 
wind. We™re going to get the tech-
nology for solar. We™re going to get the 
storage technology in batteries. All that stuff Chairman SMITHwas talking about that™s going on with the 
Department of Energy and the Science 
and Technology Committee, those 
technologies are coming. But as we™ve 
seen with things like Solyndra and the 
tax credit that goes to wind farms, 
they™re not economical today. We have low-cost fossil fuel that will bridge us until those technologies are 
ready for prime time and ready to go. 
We need to take advantage of it. We 
need to open up the infrastructure with 
things like the Keystone pipeline. We 
need to open up Federal land so we can 
charge a royalty to the oil and gas 
companies for producing that on Fed-
eral land. That will bring money into 
the Federal budget that we could use 
for a wide variety of things: lowering 
the deficit, repairing our decaying in-
frastructure needs. We need to be a country of ‚‚yes™™ to all-of-the-above energy, and it will 
solve our economic crisis, and we will have a better life for every single 
American. Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. I thank the gentleman. At this time, we™ll go to my 
colleague from Arkansas (Mr. GRIFFIN). VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:51 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00030Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.059H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2281 April 24, 2013 Mr. GRIFFIN of Arkansas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
importance of natural gas production 
to America™s energy security. Natural gas production is a critical part of a new economy, a new economy 
where energy costs are lower. In fact, 
there have been several articles lately 
that talk about manufacturing plants 
in Europe moving to the United States 
because of lower energy costs, because 
of the lower cost of manufacturing 
products using low-cost natural gas. And, also, recent studies have shown that our greenhouse gases in the 
United States are lower because of 
more natural gas use. My home State of Arkansas is an en-ergy-rich State, and the Fayetteville 
shale play has helped fuel our State™s 
economy. It™s one of the biggest depos-
its of natural gas in the United States. 
It spans approximately 4,000 square 
miles. It™s estimated to contain up to 
20 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. It™s 
considered one of the most productive 
shale plays in the country. But what does that mean for every-day Americans? What does it mean, 
what has it meant for Arkansans? Well, natural gas production is pro-viding high-paying jobs for folks in my 
State and my district. According to the 
University of Arkansas, the average 
annual pay in the oil and gas extrac-
tion industry was $74,000 in 2010. That™s 
good pay. That™s money that pays for 
food on the table, for a kid™s education. 
That™s twice the average pay of all in-
dustry in the State of Arkansas. Further, the Fayetteville shale play supports over 20,000 jobs. It™s added $12 
billion to Arkansas™ economy since 
2008. That impacts families. Across the country, though, you™ve heard some detractors. These individ-
uals have spread exaggerations, in 
some case, falsehoods about the envi-
ronmental impacts of natural gas ex-
traction through fracking. And I want to point out that Presi-dent Obama™s own U.S. Geological Sur-
vey recently produced an important re-
port that highlights the safety of nat-
ural gas production in Arkansas. Now, 
you™re probably not hearing a lot about 
it, but it™s an important study that was 
done in conjunction with Duke Univer-
sity and the University of Arkansas. In January of this year, they pub-lished a study entitled ‚‚Shallow 
Groundwater Quality and Geo-
chemistry in the Fayetteville Shale 
Gas Production Area.™™ What™s the point of this study? The point of this study is that they tested 
groundwater, and they found that 
what™s going on in the Fayetteville 
shale is environmentally safe. The yearlong study examined the water quality of 127 shallow wells in 
the Fayetteville shale play. The report 
concluded there™s no indication of sys-
temic regional effects on shallow 
groundwater. This supports the under-
standing that natural gas production is 
safe for our environment and commu-
nities. And as the father of two young chil-dren, I recognize the importance of en-
suring that our air™s clean and that our 
water™s clean. We must always seek to ensure that energy development is undertaken re-
sponsibly, but this report is an incon-
venient truth for many out there who 
oppose fracking, which has given us so 
much natural gas and a competitive 
advantage. Mr. Speaker, we must support the continuation of environmentally sound 
natural gas production in the United 
States to ensure our energy independ-
ence and further decrease our reliance 
on foreign sources of energy. It is abso-
lutely critical to grow our economy so 
that families across the country can 
put food on the table and pursue happi-
ness in this great country. Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. I thank my friend. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire about how much time we have remaining. The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-tleman has 28 minutes remaining. b1610 Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. I would like to now yield to my colleague from 
Texas (Mr. OLSON). Mr. OLSON. I thank my colleague from the Buckeye State. Ohio has al-
ways been a coal State. Now, with the 
Utica Shale plate, it™s an oil and gas 
State. Mr. Speaker, the HEAT Team is back for the 113th Congress. I™m proud to be 
joining the HEAT TeamŠthe House 
Energy Action TeamŠas we talk about 
a dream: American energy independ-
ence. As part of that goal, I™ll be talk-
ing this afternoon about power genera-
tion and grid reliability. In Texas, bigger is always better. Texas got bigger than any State in the 
last 10 years. We did it for simple rea-
sons: no state income tax; a right to 
work State; commonsense regulations; 
and cheap, reliable energy. To sustain 
that growth, we need five new large 
power plants in the next 2 to 3 years. It 
could be a matter of life and death. If 
we have a power crisis such as the heat 
wave like we had in August of 2011, 
when the entire State was over 100 de-
grees for all 31 days of that month, if 
that happens again, in the next 1 or 2 
years, power may go out over the 
State, with rolling brownouts, rolling 
blackouts. That could be life and death 
for the elderly, the young, the poor. The Obama administration™s obsta-cles to fossil fuels is our greatest chal-
lenge. Radical environmentalists have 
killed two new, large power plants. One 
is the Las Brisas power plant near Cor-
pus Christi, and the second is the 
White Stallion Power Plant, a coal 
plant, near Bay City, where we have 
two nuclear reactors. Las Brisas was 
like coal. It used petroleum coke to re-
fine that to make it energy. Now we™ll 
export that energy source overseas. We need options to make sure that mothballed power plants can come 
back on line if we need them in a crisis. But as we™ve seen in the past, these power plants run the risk of being sued 
for exceeding their environmental limi-
tations from the EPA. I have reintro-
duced a bill, H.R. 271, in this Congress. 
It passed in the last Congress unani-
mously in the Energy and Commerce 
Committee, of which I™m a member. It 
passed unanimously on this floor last 
Congress. It™s coming back in com-
mittee sometime in the next couple of 
weeks. By passing this bill, we send a simple message: if the person or entity that 
runs the power grid tells you to keep 
that power plant up and running, and 
you exceed the EPA limitations, you 
cannot be held liable for exceeding the 
limitations when some government 
agency has told you to keep the power 
plant up and running. That™s common 
sense. I thank my colleague. I™m glad to be here because we have a chance again to 
make our country energy independent. Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. I yield now to my colleague from California (Mr. 
VALADAO). Mr. VALADAO. In addition to our rich agricultural land, California™s San 
Joaquin Valley is also blessed with an 
abundance of oil, natural gas, and re-
newable energy sources. These re-
sources should be utilized to create 
jobs, lower energy costs for American 
families, and reduce our Nation™s de-
pendency on foreign energy. Instead, 
misguided public policy and over-
reaching Federal regulations have cost 
the Central Valley thousands of jobs 
and increased the price at the pump for 
all Americans. Over the last several years, there have been dramatic changes in the en-
ergy policy of the United States. And 
as result, energy prices have signifi-
cantly increased. Cap-and-trade legis-
lation failed to pass the House in 2009. 
However, Washington bureaucrats have 
already implemented several parts of 
cap-and-trade through erroneous EPA 
regulations. These regulations put lim-
itations on carbon emissions, dimin-
ishing oil and gas production in my dis-
trict. Since 1976, the number of environ-mental regulations in the Code of Fed-
eral Regulations has increased 25-fold. 
Regulations developed and enforced by 
the Environmental Protection Agency 
have had a devastating effect on energy 
production in the Central Valley as the 
EPA and other members of the Federal 
environmental bureaucracy continue 
to wage war on energy producers, cost-
ing California thousands of high-qual-
ity, good-paying jobs. By taking advan-
tage of the natural resources in Cali-
fornia, we can provide Americans with 
quality jobs, restore our economy, and 
reduce the struggle families face every 
day due to high energy costs. The most efficient path toward re-ducing our dependence on foreign oil 
and lowering energy costs is an all-of- 
the-above approach that includes con-
ventional sources of energy as well as 
renewable energy sources such as VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:51 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00031Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.061H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2282 April 24, 2013 hydro, solar, and wind power. My dis-trict is home to a growing number of 
wind and solar farms. Developing mar-
ket-based energy sources will help the 
United States meet its energy inde-
pendence goals. However, in order to 
meet our country™s energy demand, we 
must rely on a mix of traditional 
means while we continue to develop al-
ternative energy solutions for the fu-
ture. Promoting energy production from California™s Monterey Shale, located 
directly under my district, could bring 
in 2.8 million jobs and raise an addi-
tional $25 billion in new revenues by 
the end of the decade. This would not 
only strengthen the local economy but 
the State™s economy as a whole. Natural gas is a safe and responsible energy source with high economic out-
put. In 2010, over 22,750 jobs were cre-
ated in California alone. Studies show 
that natural gas production will save 
each American household approxi-
mately $926 per year between 2012 and 
2015. Hydroelectric power accounts for 
63 percent of the clean power in this 
country and 8 percent of total elec-
tricity. Expanding hydropower produc-
tion would further increase our energy 
independence from foreign countries. 
The Central Valley has the available 
workforce to construct and operate hy-
dropower facilities throughout the Si-
erra Nevadas, which would not only 
produce energy to be used by the entire 
country but also provide the Central 
Valley with the ability to store a 
clean, reliable water supply. My home State of California, and the entire United States, has been blessed 
with abundant conventional and renew-
able energy sources. Our constituents 
should not have to make tough deci-
sions regarding their daily energy con-
sumption when our Nation has the 
ability to produce enough energy to 
meet their needs. They should be able 
to water their yards, cool their homes 
in the summer, and drive their children 
to school without facing expensive en-
ergy bills and high prices at the pump. Mr. GARDNER. I thank the gen-tleman from California for his com-
ments today and would point out that 
in just a little bit we™re going to hear 
from one of the sponsors of a hydro-
power bill that will make a significant 
difference in this State. And something 
that we ought to be doing more of is 
taking advantage of that clean, renew-
able energy resource. I would yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from Mis-
sissippi, ALANNUNNELEE. Mr. NUNNELEE. I want to thank the gentleman from Colorado for yielding. America has been blessed with an abundance of natural resources. Be-
cause of private-sector innovations, 
we™ve seen a boom in energy develop-
ment both on private lands and on 
State lands. Sadly, due to the Obama 
administration™s extreme environ-
mental agenda, in these same years 
we™ve seen a decline of energy recovery 
off of Federal lands. The most promi-nent example of President Obama™s prioritizing his radical environmental 
base over American energy develop-
ment is the continued failure to ap-
prove the Keystone XL pipeline. It™s a sad commentary on the state of leadership in the modern-day Demo-
cratic Party compared with the record 
of men like President Kennedy. Presi-
dent Kennedy set out bold goals and 
then laid out ways of achieving those 
goals. He came to this very Chamber 
and challenged the elected representa-
tives that before the decade is out, 
America would land a man on the 
Moon and return him safely back to 
Earth. America achieved President 
Kennedy™s goals. b1620 Now, given our resources from our friendly neighbors to the north, given 
American innovation, we should echo 
the challenge of President Kennedy. We 
should make it the goal of this genera-
tion that before this decade is out we 
become North American energy secure. Now, there are vastly different un-dertakings between landing a man on 
the Moon and becoming energy secure, 
but the spirit required to achieve suc-
cess in those areas is the same. The 
only thing standing between America 
and energy security for the future is an 
executive branch that™s run by environ-
mental extremists that are beholden to 
the wealthy liberal environmentalists. Now, residents of Billionaires™ Row in San Francisco can afford to indulge in 
fantasies of an economy run on wind-
mills and solar panels. Meanwhile, men 
and women in Mississippi that are 
struggling to get to work know that it 
continues to break the better part of a 
$100 bill to fill their car up with gas. We, as elected officials who serve the people in need of affordable energy and 
a thriving economy, must deal with 
that reality. That™s why I support an 
all-of-the-above approach. It does in-
clude renewable energy; but it also in-
cludes recovering American fossil fuels 
like oil, natural gas, recovering Amer-
ican coal that we can now burn cleanly 
without damaging the environment, 
and expanding nuclear energy, includ-
ing small modular nuclear reactors 
used in the production of electricity. If 
we do that, America can be energy se-
cure. Mr. GARDNER. I thank the gen-tleman from Mississippi. I now yield to the gentleman from Colorado (Mr. TIPTON), who has been a sponsor of hydropower legislation to 
make this country stronger in terms of 
energy security. Mr. TIPTON. I thank my colleague from Colorado for the time. Mr. Speaker, we have a very simple question before us as Americans: When 
we™re looking at young families strug-
gling to be able to pay bills, senior citi-
zens on fixed incomes wondering how 
they™re going to be able to make that 
next payment to be able to heat their 
homes, or cool them as summer ap-
proaches, is it an appropriate time for this Nation to seek what Jimmy Car-ter, in this very Chamber in 1976, chal-
lenged this country to doŠto be able to 
achieve energy sufficiency? The answer 
can only be ‚‚yes.™™ The time is now for this Nation to be able to act. We see Americans strug-
gling to be able to pay those bills. 
We™re seeing Americans right now that 
are worried about being able to hold on 
to their jobs. This is an opportunity to 
be able to put Americans back to work 
and to be able to achieve that true en-
ergy self-sufficiency in this Nation. 
And it can be all-of-the-above. In this last year, we passed a bill that I presented, planning for Amer-
ica™s energy future, that enumerated 
that all-of-the-above strategyŠwind, 
solar, hydroelectric energy, as well as 
coal, gas, our natural resources, to be 
able to develop them right here in 
America, to put our people back to 
work, and to be able to create that en-
ergy certainty. When we look at this worldscape in which we currently live, the threats 
that are there, it is appropriate for this 
Nation to truly achieve energy self-suf-
ficiency. Through the bill that we just passed through the House of Representatives 
that my colleague noted, in the State 
of Colorado, through the ditches, the 
pipelines that have been built by the 
Bureau of Reclamation, we can gen-
erate as much electricity just in the 
State of Colorado as the Glen Canyon 
dam with small hydroelectric units. It 
can be that all-of-the-above strategy, 
but we also need to increase the pro-
duction of our traditional fuel sources 
as well. The time is appropriate. We have the resources and we have the technology 
to be able to do that. The question yet 
to be answered is: Will we rise to be 
able to actually meet that challenge? As Americans, let us be committed to developing American energy on Amer-
ican soil, to be able to create American 
jobs, put Americans back to work, and 
to be able to create our own energy 
certainty at this time. The future of 
this country, the future for our chil-
dren rely on those commonsense solu-
tions. We™re going to be putting them 
forward in this House. We™re calling 
the American people and the Senate 
and the President to join us in that ef-
fort. Mr. GARDNER. I thank the gen-tleman from Colorado. May I inquire of the Speaker how much time I have remaining. The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. BENTIVOLIO). The gentleman from Colo-rado has 3 minutes remaining. Mr. GARDNER. I yield to the gen-tleman from New York (Mr. REED), the chair of the Natural Gas and Manufac-
turing Caucus. Mr. REED. I so appreciate the gen-tleman yielding time, my good friend 
from Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I join this conversation tonight coming at it from a perspective 
of being the chair of the Natural Gas VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:51 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00032Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.062H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2283 April 24, 2013 Caucus and cochair of the Manufac-turing Caucus here in Washington, 
D.C., caucuses that have cochairs on a 
bipartisan basis, where we™re working 
together to try to figure out how we 
can become energy independent, but 
more importantly, Mr. Speaker, what 
this issue represents for the average 
American family. What this represents, when we are developing domestic energy sources 
such as the natural gas boom across 
America that™s coming out of our shale 
formations and our tight sands forma-
tion when it comes to oil, what this 
represents to manufacturing is it puts 
American manufacturers in a competi-
tive position so that they can invest in 
manufacturing facilities here on Amer-
ican soil. So what does that mean? What that means to every man, woman, and child 
out there in America right now is that 
we are sitting on the precipice of a 
manufacturing renaissance in America. 
This competitive edge that we are get-
ting from developing our natural gas 
and oil resources here in America 
means that we™re going to build plants. 
They™re going to be putting people 
back to work for today and tomorrow 
and for generations to come. We need to build things in America. That™s what this represents. We have a 
report from PricewaterhouseCoopers: 
by 2025, we are talking 1 million manu-
facturing jobs. There should be no dispute in this Chamber to join hands to make sure we 
develop the energy resource in a safe 
and responsible manner, but develop it 
for the sake of creating those jobs that 
put food on people™s tables, put a roof 
over their heads, and take care of fami-
lies for generations to come. I appreciate my good friend from Col-orado yielding the time to me today. I 
just have to say, American energy 
means Americans™ national security, 
and it means American prosperity for 
Americans of today and tomorrow. Mr. GARDNER. I thank the gen-tleman from New York. Mr. Speaker, the other night when I was driving home from a meeting in 
one of my rural countiesŠit was about 
8 o™clock, 9 o™clock at night, it was 
dark outsideŠI drove by a field of 
windmills. At nighttime, you can see 
that red light flashing across 100 wind 
turbines, and then of course the nat-
ural gas development that™s taking 
place right next to it. So, Mr. Speaker, 
this Nation has an opportunity for en-
ergy security. It™s not next year; it™s 
now. I thank my colleagues for joining this debate on American energy today 
and look forward to continued con-
versations throughout this year. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. Mr. DAINES. Mr. Speaker, thank you, Mr. JOHNSONfor leading tonight™s leadership hour on American energy. This is an issue of great importance to the people of Montana, and I™m 
glad we™re having this discussion tonight. 1678. That™s how many days it™s been since the application to build the Keystone XL pipe-
line was filed. It took Canada seven months to approve the pipeline. President Obama has taken over 
four and a half years. Study after study has shown that not only is the pipeline safeŠbut it said to be the most 
advanced, state-of-the art pipeline ever con-
structed. And the benefits of constructing this pipeline go beyond just transporting oil. Earlier this month, I was in Glasgow, Mon-tana visiting NorVal Electric Co-op. Members 
of the co-op told me that they are going to be 
supplying electricity to pump stations for the 
KXL, allowing them to spread their cost bur-
dens and hold rates steady for customers. If Obama does not approve the Keystone pipeline, their customers will see upwards of a 
40 percent increase in their utility rates over 
the next ten years. This is a great example of how this will im-pact everyday Americans. It will create thousands of jobsŠat least 800 in my home state of Montana alone. And the president still can™t make a deci-sion. Last month, the U.S. State Department issued its Supplemental Environmental Impact 
Statement for the Keystone XL Presidential 
Permit application, which confirmed what we 
already knew. The Keystone XL Pipeline will have no sig-nificant impacts on the environment. In fact, this is the fourth environmental re-view of the Keystone PipelineŠwith a final re-
port still to come. Let me be clearŠthis project means jobs. 
This project could directly create more than 800 good-paying jobs in MontanaŠand thou-
sands more across the nation. It means coming one step closer to North American energy independence. The Key-
stone XL would be able to move up to 
830,000 barrels of oil per day. That™s about 
half the amount that the U.S. presently imports 
from the Middle East. And of the oil moved each day, 100,000 barrels will come from the Bakken formation, 
which spreads across Montana and North Da-
kota. This isn™t about politicsŠRepublicans and Democrats alike support the pipeline. This is about our nation™s security. This is about lowering energy costs for American fam-
ilies. This is about American jobs. After four and a half years of waiting on President Obama to approve the Keystone XL 
pipeline, enough is enough. The American people deserve action on this job-creating project, not more of President 
Obama™s delays. That™s why today, the House Natural Re-sources Committee voted to advance the 
Northern Route Approval Act. This bill makes it possible for the pipeline to be constructed in its entirety by removing the 
need for a presidential permit for the northern 
portion of the Keystone XL pipeline. With this approval, we are one step closer to getting this pipeline approved. The construction of the Keystone XL pipe-line means hundreds of good-paying jobs cre-
ated for Montanans, it means millions of dol-
lars injected into our economy, and it even 
means lower utility rates for MontanansŠwe 
can™t afford to wait any longer. Enough is enough. It™s been 1678 days. 
As a member of the House Energy Action Team, I urge President Obama to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline. And, if he won™t act, we will. f REREFERRAL OF H.R. 763, REPEAL-ING ANNUAL FEE ON HEALTH 
INSURANCE PROVIDERS Mr. GARDNER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that H.R. 763 be re-
referred to the Committee on Ways and 
Means and, in addition, to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce. The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Colorado? There was no objection. f KERMIT GOSNELL (Mrs. BLACK asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.) Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Speaker, I stand here today outraged and deeply sad-
dened by the heartbreaking story of 
the abortion doctor, Kermit Gosnell. 
This is the man currently on trial for 
the murder of eight people, seven of 
whom were newborns who were killed 
after surviving late-term botched abor-
tions in his ‚‚house of horror™™ clinic. But Gosnell didn™t act alone. He had a host of silent co-conspirators who re-
ferred women to his practice knowing 
full well of the horrors that went on 
behind those closed doors. Meanwhile, 
the State boards gave Gosnell a free 
pass for 17 years by failing to inspect 
his clinic. When asked about Gosnell™s crime, our President tells us he has no com-
ment. Where is your outrage, Mr. 
President? Are you too busy preparing 
your remarks for tomorrow night™s 
Planned Parenthood fundraising gala? My heart breaks that our country has reached a point where we are all 
not outraged by a practice that ends a 
beating heart and takes the lives of our 
most vulnerable in our society. May 
God forgive us. f b1630 CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker™s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2013, the Chair recognizes the 
gentleman from New York (Mr. 
JEFFRIES) for 60 minutes as the des-ignee of the minority leader. GENERALLEAVE
 Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days to revise 
and extend their remarks. The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York? There was no objection. 
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, it™s an honor and a privilege to have the op-
portunity to stand here once again and 
to anchor the Congressional Black Cau-
cus Special Order with my distin-
guished colleague from the Silver 
State, STEVENHORSFORD. VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:51 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00033Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.065H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2284 April 24, 2013 For the next 60 minutes, members from the Congressional Black Caucus 
will speak directly to the American 
people about the importance of invest-ing in the education of our children 
and of our young people as a matter of 
utmost importance for the future pros-
perity of this great country. I™ve got the honor and the privilege of representing the 8th Congressional 
District, which includes parts of 
Queens, and it is largely anchored in 
neighborhoods in Brooklyn. And 100 
years ago this month, in April of 1913, 
Ebbets Field opened for the first time. 
Ebbets Field, as the movie ‚‚42™™ has il-
lustrated, is the baseball stadium 
where, on April 15 of 1947, Jackie Rob-
inson broke the color barrier in Amer-
ica™s pastime and became the first Afri-
can American to participate in a Major 
League Baseball game. Now, we know that prior to that mo-ment, African Americans, solely on the 
basis of their color, were prohibited 
from playing Major League Baseball. 
And so you had individuals like ‚‚Cool 
Papa™™ Bell and Josh Gibson, any num-
ber of individuals who were stellar at 
their craft amongst the best who have 
ever played, confined to the Negro 
leagues, unable to ever get onto a 
Major League Baseball field because of 
the color of their skin. That all changed on April 15, 1947, when Jackie Robinson broke the color 
barrier. And I think that holds an im-
portant point for us, what Jackie Rob-
inson illustrated: that if you get an op-
portunity to get on the field of play, 
folks who otherwise have been excluded 
from the mainstream can demonstrate 
that they will perform just as well, if 
not better, than everyone else. And in the context of education in the United States of America, we con-
front a situation where you have one 
group of children in this country 
who™ve got a first-rate education, and 
then you™ve got another group of chil-
dren who are confined to a broken pub-
lic school system that has failed them, 
that has inadequately prepared them 
for the opportunities that otherwise 
would be available in life. We don™t have necessarily, the lit-erature has begun to show, an achieve-
ment gap that relates to capacity or 
ability. Yes, based on different per-
formance measures, Black children and 
White children and Latino children 
score differently in various areas of 
proficiency, but the literature has 
begun to show that™s not really an 
achievement gap. It™s really an oppor-
tunity gap. And what Jackie Robinson dem-onstrated, I think, for all of America to 
see is that, if you just give our children 
the same opportunities available to 
others through the educational sys-
temŠgive them the same bat, give 
them the same glove, give them the 
same cleats, allow them to perform on 
the same fields of human endeavorŠ 
that they can perform just as well, if 
not better, than everyone else. And if you give them that oppor-tunity, if you give all American chil-dren opportunity, it™s good for them, but it™s good for the community and 
it™s good for the Nation. It lifts every-
one™s productivity in a manner that 
will benefit America. That is why the 
CBC believes that investing in edu-
cation is the appropriate and a mean-
ingful and the right way to go, given 
what we confront in our country at 
this moment. We™ve been joined by several distin-guished members of the CBC. Let me 
first yield to my co-anchor, the distin-
guished gentleman from Nevada, Rep-
resentative STEVENHORSFORD. Mr. HORSFORD. To my colleague and dear friend, the Representative 
from the 8th Congressional District of 
New York, it™s good to join you for this 
hour of power to talk directly to our 
constituents and the American people 
about the priorities that we™re focused 
on here in the United States House of 
Representatives and that we hope our 
colleagues on the other side will join 
with us to advance. Today, we bring to the focus of this body the need to invest in opportunity 
through education. A pathway to a col-
lege education is a pathway into the 
middle class. And as a panel that was 
just convened, moderated by Wade 
Henderson, entitled, ‚‚For Each and 
Every Child,™™ they indicated that, 
while a post-high school education is 
not an economic cure-all, it does pro-
vide a steppingstone to a good job and 
stable wages. Now, every parent should be able to count on a good education for his or 
her children. As a father of three young 
children, I™m very focused on what my 
children need in the opportunities to 
advance in their lives and to be suc-
cessful, as every parent is focused on, 
but, unfortunately, it is not always the 
case. We need to refocus the conversation on educational opportunity, as my col-
league, Mr. JEFFRIES, just indicated, and making sure that our children™s fu-
ture is not determined by a ZIP Code. 
Our schools should not be structured 
like a lottery system where some luck 
out and others strike outŠto continue 
with your analogy, Mr. JEFFRIES. Poor kids who are exceptional should be the norm, not the exception to the 
rule. They deserve the resources they 
need to be successful; and that™s what 
we, on behalf of the Congressional 
Black Caucus, are bringing forward 
here today. In order to fix what™s wrong right now, we need to change the way we 
think about our schools, because it™s 
not simply schools that teach our stu-
dents; it™s actually the entire commu-
nity. It is a community effort. In 2011, 78 percent of high school graduates from high-income families 
enrolled in college. The shares for 
middle- and low-income families were 
63 and 55 percent, respectfully. We have 
to work to close this gap and open a 
pathway to college for all students. Now, today, we will hear from our colleagues who share with this need to invest in education. We would like to talk about the particular issue that™s 
affecting our Black men and boys in 
education. We want to focus on the 
need to grow more science and math 
majors. We know we need to invest in 
pre-K, and we want to outline our pri-
orities as they compare to the Repub-
lican budget that™s been offered by the 
other side. And so as we enter into this hour of power to talk about education, I hope 
that we can cover these topics and oth-
ers, and I look forward to this discus-
sion. Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, let me now yield to a great fighter for edu-
cation and for social and economic jus-
tice here in the Congress and in this 
Nation, the distinguished gentleman 
from North Carolina (Mr. 
BUTTERFIELD). b1640 Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Let me thank you, Mr. JEFFRIES, for yielding me this time, and thank you for your leader-
ship here in the House of Representa-
tives. Since you have arrived here in the House, you have just done extraor-
dinary work. You™ve taken the time to 
come to this floor and to educate and 
inform the masses of our people about 
the great, important issues facing our 
Nation. So I want to thank you for all 
of your work. I also thank Mr. HORSFORD, the other gentleman who has taken the time to 
convene this special hour of presen-
tations. I want to thank you for all of 
the work that you do. You are both 
freshmen, but you have the personal-
ities and the abilities of someone who 
has been in this body for many years, 
so thank you very much. The Congressional Black Caucus this evening has chosen to talk about the 
important subject of education. I am a 
strong supporterŠa proponentŠof 
strong public education. Mr. Speaker, 
there is no investment that we can 
make as a country that is more impor-
tant than investing in children and in-
vesting in their education and in their 
higher education. Regrettably, there are some people in this body who think otherwise. They 
may say that they don™t think other-
wise, but their actions demonstrate 
every day that they do not have a 
strong commitment to supporting our 
educational system in this country. 
There are even some Members of this 
Chamber who, regrettably, have said 
from time to time that they want to 
defund and eliminate the U.S. Depart-
ment of Education. They feel that the 
educational responsibility of govern-
ment belongs to the States and not to 
the Federal Government. That is so un-
fortunate, but I want to encourage all 
of us who serve in this body to work to-
gether and stay together and to try to 
promote public education in every way 
that we can. Now, Mr. JEFFRIES, I cannot speak about the State of New York with any VerDate Mar 15 2010 02:04 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00034Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.067H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2285 April 24, 2013 authority or about the borough of BrooklynŠI know you do that very 
well in that you™ve been there for many 
yearsŠbut I can speak to my home 
State of North Carolina. We have a demonstrated record of commitment and excellence in public 
education, both at the elementary and 
high school levels, as well as at the col-
lege level. We started way back in 1868 
when our constitution was enacted. In 
the State constitution, we made sure 
that there was a provision that guaran-
teed a public education for every child 
in our State. Ensuring that our stu-
dents have access to quality education 
has long been a principle of my State 
and of those that I associate with. So I 
have firsthand knowledge of our edu-
cational system. I know about the 
dedicated educators that we have in 
North Carolina, and I want to just en-
courage them and thank them for their 
service, and I urge them to keep on 
doing what they™re doing. Mr. Speaker, I came from a family of educators. My mother was a classroom 
teacher. She taught school for 48 long 
years. Many people want to know how 
a single person could be in the class-
room for that long, but my response is 
that, during those days, you did not 
need a college degree in order to be a 
classroom teacherŠonly a passionate 
commitment and a high school di-
ploma. I understand the importance of edu-cation, but even the most devoted and 
capable educators must have the re-
sources to provide our children with 
quality education. We now face a defin-
ing moment for future generations of 
Americans in which some Republicans 
want to fix this budget by cutting 
funding for our students in schools. At 
the same time, we continue to be out-
paced by other countries that continue 
to increase their educational invest-
ments. In this country, the world™s most prosperous Nation, 25 percent of our 
children do not graduate from high 
school. More than 90 million adults 
have inadequate literacy skills. The 
numbers are even more startling for 
low-income children and African Amer-
ican children, many of whom live in 
my district. Less than 8 percent of stu-
dents in advanced placement math or 
science courses are African American. 
Fewer than half of African American 
students graduate from high school on 
time, and that must change. Despite these statistics, data show that investments in educational pro-
grams like Title I and IDEA and Race 
to the Top and Head Start and TRIO 
are instrumental in preparing our stu-
dents to compete globally, but draco-
nian cuts through sequestration have 
rolled back discretionary Education 
Department funding below the 2004 
level and have gutted many of those 
programs. My State will lose $25 million in funding for primary and secondary edu-
cation this year; 38,000 fewer students 
will be served in my State; and 350 edu-cation jobs will be in danger. The Ron-ald McNair TRIO program for doctoral 
students from disadvantaged back-
grounds, which was cut at Elizabeth 
City State University, is just one ex-
ample. Many State legislatures, includ-
ing that of my State, are cutting State 
education budgets at the same time. 
We must find ways to address our fiscal 
challenges without placing the burden 
on our children and our teachers. While our goal must be to ultimately reauthorize the ESEA and the Higher 
Education Act, there are many ways 
we can help right now. We must pre-
serve the maximum Pell Grant and 
keep interest rates on student loans 
low to enable low-income students to 
attend college. We must sustain fund-
ing for Race to the Top grants. In 
North Carolina, those grants have de-
veloped stronger curriculum in math 
and science, and they are working. 
They have strengthened teacher train-
ing and improved early childhood edu-
cation. FinallyŠand I will closeŠwe must also protect other STEM funding 
streams through funding for NSF and 
NIH, which support innovative re-
search in my district at Duke Univer-
sity, East Carolina University, Eliza-
beth City State University, and at my 
alma mater of North Carolina Central 
University. We must also support bills 
like H.R. 595, the Veterans Education 
Equity Act, which I introduced to re-
solve an inequity in existing law that 
unintentionally allots more education 
funds to veterans who are enrolled in 
private colleges than those in public 
institutions. The bottom line, Mr. Speaker, is that education must be a priority. We must 
seize every opportunity to increase 
support for public education and not 
decrease it. Public education should be 
off-limits to budget cuts. Mr. JEFFRIES. I thank the gen-tleman from North Carolina for his ex-
tremely insightful comments and for 
his leadership on this issue. We have also been joined by another dynamic member of the freshman 
class, who has taken the Capitol by 
storm with her intelligence and ele-
gance. We are thankful for her leader-
ship. Let me yield to the distinguished 
gentlelady from Ohio, Representative 
JOYCEBEATTY. Mrs. BEATTY. I would like to join my other colleagues in thanking my 
freshman class members Mr. JEFFRIES and Mr. HORSFORDfor leading the Con-gressional Black Caucus™ discussion on 
this critical issue. I rise today to be an advocate for im-proving access to quality education for 
minority students and to discuss the 
government™s role in breaking down 
economic barriers for educational op-
portunity. You see, I know firsthand how impor-tant government assistance is for op-
portunity and quality education. I 
know that it makes a difference be-
cause, when my brother and I entered 
collegeŠfirst-generation college grad-uates in our familyŠwe realized early on that we needed to do something 
with public education: it was govern-
ment funding; it was access to a qual-
ity education; but more importantly, it 
was folks like Congressmen JEFFRIES and HORSFORDmaking a difference in our lives. But now we see there is still 
a significant number of hurdles that 
prevent many Americans from obtain-ing a quality education. Financial lit-
eracy, access to financial aid, quality 
education all play a critical role and 
must be a part of this national discus-
sion. I™m from the great State of Ohio. Last year, Ohio ranked seventh in the 
country for student debt, with the av-
erage student carrying $28,683 in debt. I 
also know that the growing student 
loan is a burden in this country and 
makes it more difficult for families to 
achieve future financial security. If 
left unaddressed, it will affect us nega-
tively over our broader economy. Cur-
rently, there are approximately 37 mil-
lion student loan borrowers with out-
standing student loans. These statis-
tics threaten access to quality edu-
cation and must be addressed. One way to improve access to quality education, as I hope you will hear re-
peatedly tonight, is through the Pell 
Grant. Again, I know firsthand be-
cause, you see, when I was going to col-
lege, the Pell Grant in the early years 
was called the Basic Educational Op-
portunity Grant. There is that word 
again. b1650 By receiving that, it gave me that opportunity that propelled me. And 
now, my sisters who follow me are all 
educators. My mother, like Congress-
man BUTTERFIELD™s mother, served many years, until she retired, going 
into public schools as a reading spe-
cialist assistant where she helped so 
many children understand the quality 
of that education and how reading and 
speaking would make a difference. So you see, Pell Grants have been the cornerstone in the lives of many mi-
norities seeking higher education and 
have provided more than $4 billion to 
African American college students 
each year. Without the Pell Grant pro-
gram, hundreds of thousands of minor-
ity students would not be able to afford 
to go to college. I™ve also had the experience of work-ing as a leader in a 4-year institution 
in our great State, the largest single 
campus university in this country, 
Ohio State University. I am proud to 
say that they are strong advocates for 
us making sure that we continue to put 
dollars into the Pell Grant so children 
of all races, ethnicity and color will be 
able to have that quality education. That is why the escalating cost of education acutely affects students of 
all color and their access to a quality VerDate Mar 15 2010 03:24 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00035Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.069H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2286 April 24, 2013 education. We need to also improve quality education by promoting STEM 
programs, STEM programs that build a 
pipeline of a highly skilled workforce 
for today™s high-tech and industrial 
jobs. Last year, African Americans re-ceived just 7 percent of STEM-related 
bachelor™s degrees, 4 percent of mas-
ter™s degrees and only 2 percent of doc-
torates. American colleges and univer-
sities are poised to produce about 3 
million science, engineer, technology 
and math STEM majors over the next 
decade. However, there has only been a 
2 percent to 3 percent increase of Afri-
can Americans in STEM professions 
over the past year. So, you see, we come tonight to ask this body, this Congress to be sup-
portive of making sure that children, 
and especially minority children, Afri-
can American children, be able to be 
our Jackie Robinsons, as we have 
today with our two leaders who stand 
here today as our Jackie Robinsons of 
scholarship. With that, I thank you for allowing me the opportunity to come today. Mr. JEFFRIES. I thank the distin-guished Congresswoman from Ohio. I note the connection to Ohio State University that we share in my family. 
My brother is a professor of history at 
Ohio State™s great institution. Your 
contribution to opening up opportuni-
ties for people of color and all students 
at such a great public university is 
noted. It is important, I think, for this in-stitution to take a look at several of 
the issues that you™ve raised, Congress-
woman, that Representative HORSFORD and I will shortly explore. The debt situation is particularly troublesome, and I™m going to ask the 
gentleman from Nevada if he would 
make a few observations in connection 
to what Representative BEATTYnoted is a student-loan problem that we have 
here in America. Now, the interesting thing is that during the 110-plus days that we all as 
freshmen have been in this Chamber, 
we™ve heard a lot of talk about the 
moral imperative of dealing with the 
debt situation that we confront in 
America. And every time we™re about 
to hit the debt ceiling, there are some 
in this Chamber who have said that we 
should perhaps default to send a mes-
sage that some in this country appar-
ently are reckless with their spending 
habits. Now, parenthetically, this is, of course, a complete mischaracterization 
of what the debt ceiling actually rep-
resents. It™s not a forward-looking ve-
hicle designed to give the President the 
opportunity to spend more. It™s a back-
ward-looking vehicle designed to allow 
this administration, or any administra-
tion, to pay bills that this Congress has 
already incurred. But whenever we talk about the debt, my friends on the other side of the 
aisle raise it as a moral imperative. I 
think the fact that we™ve got student loan debt in America that now exceeds, as the chart illustrates, more than $1 
trillion is really what imperils future 
generations in this country. You™ve got 
young people saddled with, on average, 
in excess of $25,000 per person in debt 
facing a tough job market, with the in-
ability often to find employment in 
their field of endeavor, to start a fam-
ily, to purchase a home, the things 
that traditionally have been associated 
with pursuit of the American Dream. The prescription that has been put forth by the other side, as it relates to 
how to alleviate this debt connected to 
students, is very different than the one 
that, I think, we on this side of the 
aisle have chosen to offer. Let me now yield to the gentleman from Nevada if he might elaborate on 
our CBC vision for how to deal with the 
student loan problem or the education 
of young people in America. Mr. HORSFORD. I say thank you to my colleague from New York. Before I elaborate further, let me say that first you have to understand that 
there is a problem in order to address 
the problem. I think far too often some 
of our colleagues on the other side fail 
to recognize the fact that so many fam-
ilies who are struggling to help their 
students obtain a college degree are 
having to do so through student loans 
and rely greatly on Pell Grants for 
that assistance. Maybe it™s because 
they don™t have that same experience 
that they don™t understand why these 
are important. This is what the House Republican budget would mean for those very pro-
grams that you™re talking about. First, 
the Republican budget freezes the max-
imum Pell Grant for the next 10 years, 
even though Congress already enacted 
and paid for mandatory annual infla-
tionary increases in 2010. With this one 
step, they slash higher education fund-
ing by $83 billion. The House Republican budget allows the interest rate on need-based student 
loans to double this summer. The House Republican budget elimi-nates the income-based repayment pro-
gram, which provides that Federal stu-
dent loan borrowers can cap their loan 
payments at 15 percent, going down to 
10 percent in 2014 of their discretionary 
income each year. The reason that this is so important is because of constituents like the ones 
I spoke to on Sunday in my district. 
We were talking about the immigra-
tion issue. But as we were discussing 
that, many of them came to me and 
said, Well, you know what? I™ve had to 
borrow $30,000, $40,000, $50,000 in stu-
dent loans to acquire this degree, and 
I™m now working in the field I™m in, 
but unfortunately it™s taking $1,000, 
$1,500, $2,000 a month of my income to 
pay back those student loans. At the very time these families are struggling to do that, the Republican 
budget proposes to slash it further. Not 
only does it slash support for individ-
uals and families who rely on student 
loans, as I said, they also freeze the maximum Pell Grant, which so many low-income families and students des-
perately depend on. This is a real issue, and it™s a real dif-ference. That is why we are here today 
to bring attention to the differences 
between the two sides. I hope that as 
we move forward, we can find common 
ground. Mr. Speaker, I want to say some-thing, because sometimes I know when 
we talk about the needs of educating 
Black children, that people will say, 
What about other communities? My 
answer to that is that if we can help 
improve the education for Black chil-
dren in America, we will improve edu-
cation for all children in America, 
whether they be Latino or White or 
Asian. b1700 And so that is why we need to have an investment in education in Amer-
ica, not to defund, not to slash, not to 
reduce or not to freeze funding, but to 
invest in the very things that we know 
work and that will improve the suc-
cesses for young people to succeed in 
life. Mr. JEFFRIES. I thank the gen-tleman from the Silver State for those 
very astute observations. As Rep-
resentative HORSFORDhas pointed out, a budget essentially is a choice and a 
pathway forward that people in this 
Chamber are making decisions on 
based on what they see as best for 
America. And the Republican budget 
that was passed by this House, as Rep-
resentative HORSFORDhas indicated, in total would cut $168 billion in spending 
on higher education. That™s a value 
choice, to walk away from young peo-
ple in America, young people who al-
ready are being saddled with in excess 
of $1 trillion in debt in total. Now, what else does that budget do? Well, it says that we™re going to take 
the top tax rate, which is 39.6 for mil-
lionaires and billionaires, the wealthi-
est and the well off, and we want to 
slash that tax rate down to 25 percent. 
So we™re going to cut education spend-
ing for, among other reasons, to cut 
further the taxes paid by the wealthy 
and the well off in this country. That is 
a choice that is bad for America. It™s 
bad for the middle class. It™s bad for 
working families, and it™s bad for our 
future. We have been joined by the distin-guished gentleman from Virginia, an 
expert in all matters pertaining to the 
budget in this Congress, among other 
things. Representative BOBBYSCOTTis an expert on the CBC budget, in the 
budgets that have come out of this 
House of Representatives, and it is my 
honor and privilege to now yield to 
him. Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. I thank the gentleman for yielding and thank him 
for his leadership on this issue and 
many other issues that he™s been work-
ing on while we™ve been serving on the 
Judiciary Committee together. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to talk about an issue that is important to our VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:58 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00036Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.071H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2287 April 24, 2013 society, and that is access to higher education. Our Nation™s economic com-
petitiveness depends on our ability to 
educate our next generation. We com-
pete with nations all over the world for 
business, and our competitive advan-
tage is in our education. We™re not going to compete on low wages. There are people who™ll work for 
much lower wages than we™ll work for 
in the United States, and so we™re not 
going to win the battle of a race to the 
bottom on wages. We™re not going to win the battle by requiring workers to work near their 
coworkers. If you can work across the 
hall from your coworkers, if you have a 
computer, a modem, a fax machine, a 
cell phone, if you can work across the 
hall, you can work across the globe. So 
there™s no urgency to have people lo-
cated here in the United States. And if you can manufacture goods anywhere in the world, you can have 
them delivered anywhere else in the 
world, so you don™t have to be there to 
be close to your customers. There used 
to be a time where if you wanted to 
build a manufacturing plant, to get fi-
nancing it had to be here in the United 
States. Now we have worldwide bank-
ing. You can build that plant anywhere 
in the world. The reason businesses want to locate in the United States is because they 
know they can get a well trained and 
well-educated workforce, and we need 
to make sure that we don™t fall behind 
because that is our economic competi-
tive advantage. We know that neighborhoods rely on education because those neighborhoods 
that have high investment in education 
are much less likely to suffer from 
crime and pay for social services. We know that individuals benefit from education. There™s an old adage 
that the more you learn, the more you 
earn. The kind of job that you can get 
in America today in our high-tech, in-
formation-based economy depends on 
the education that you get. In fact, ac-
cording to the Department of Labor, 90 
percent of the fastest growing, best- 
paying jobs in the United States will 
require at least some education past 
the high school level. Not necessarily a 
4-year college, maybe community col-
lege or career education, but some edu-
cation past the high school level. And while the benefits of getting an education are important and well 
known, how to get that education is 
becoming a challenge. People have to 
pay for that education. Many people 
apply for financial aid. That includes 
scholarships, loans, grants, and also 
the well known Pell Grant. The Pell 
Grant provides up to $5,500 a year for 
an education. Unfortunately for many 
students, although the Pell Grant used 
to cover the cost of tuition, rarely does 
it provide tuition today. In fact, the 
College Board suggested the average 
cost of tuition is over $10,000. Many 
public colleges charge as much as 
$22,000, so a student has to come up 
with as much as $15,000 over the Pell Grant to be able to afford tuition and room and board. In most circumstances, students can obtain student loans to cover the dif-
ference. It is also critical that students 
know what they™re getting into when 
they take on student loans because 
these are not grants. These are loans 
that have to be paid back with inter-
est. We™ve been helping students with these loans. In fact, when we passed 
the Affordable Care Act a couple of 
years ago, we included $1.5 billion to 
strengthen the income-based repay-
ment program that currently allows 
students to cap their monthly student 
loan payments to 15 percent of their 
discretionary income. We need to do 
more. The College Cost Reduction and Ac-cess Act, which was signed in 2007, in-
cluded a reduction in interest on stu-
dent loans from 6.8 percent down to 3.4 
percent. That expired last year but we 
extended it, and we need to extend it 
again and even make it permanent so 
that the loan interest rate doesn™t go 
up again. There is other legislation spending. Congresswoman KARENBASShas a 10/10 program that will allow payments to 
be made of 10 percent of your discre-
tionary income for 10 years, and the 
rest can be written off. There are other 
things that are pending. But Mr. Speaker, we need to make sure that every student that studies and is prepared for college has that op-
portunity. We need to make sure that 
no student is discouraged from enhanc-
ing their education because they don™t 
believe they can afford it. We need to 
do what we can for student loans, in-
creasing Pell Grants, and making those 
opportunities real. Our Nation depends 
on it. Our neighborhoods depend on it, 
and our next generation depends on it. 
I thank the gentleman for yielding. Mr. JEFFRIES. I thank Representa-tive SCOTT. We both sit on the Judici-ary Committee, and in the context of 
our service on the Judiciary Com-
mittee, we will be presented with an 
opportunity to deal with the issue of 
comprehensive immigration reform. 
Already two hearings have been held 
on this matter. One of the issues that has consist-ently come up is the need to increase 
the number of HŒ1B visas for highly 
skilled immigrants in the STEM fieldŠ 
science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics. b1710 The technology-and-innovation econ-omy and sector in this country have 
taken off, and there are actually oppor-
tunities. Some estimate approximately 
20 percent of the workforce has open-
ings in the technology-and-innovation 
sector that many would like to see 
filled by opening up the opportunities 
for highly skilled immigrants. It™s an 
approach that I think shares bipartisan 
support. But, simultaneously, many of us be-lieve that, as a country, we must also invest in STEM education for our chil-dren and our young people to make 
sure that, moving forward, they have 
the opportunity to develop careers in 
the STEM fields in a manner that will 
benefit themselves, their families, 
their communities and, by extension, 
the country. And so before I yield to the distin-guished gentleman from New Jersey, I 
believe that Representative HORSFORD had an observation or two to make in 
the area of the need to invest in STEM 
education. Mr. HORSFORD. Thank you, Rep-resentative JEFFRIES. And you provided the clear nexus. While the Congressional Black Cau-cus, working with our colleagues from 
the Hispanic Caucus and the Asian Pa-
cific Islander Caucus, supports com-
prehensive immigration reform, includ-
ing provisions that allow the best and 
the brightest from around the country 
to immigrate to the United States and 
to contribute to making our country 
great, we also believe that there should 
be investment here in the United 
States to educate those of us here for 
these careers in the 21st century. Colleges and universities in our coun-try will produce 3 million STEM ma-
jors in the next 10 years. Still, accord-
ing to a 2012 report by the President™s 
Council of Advisors on Science and 
Technology, our economy will demand 
more students graduating with STEM 
degrees than we are currently pro-
viding. So what can we do? 
We need to increase funding in STEM education and follow the lead of many 
of our Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities and Hispanic-serving insti-
tutions which are producing a greater 
share of students with STEM degrees. Among HBCUs, currently, they produce about 19 percent of all STEM 
bachelor degrees, 38 percent of which 
are in the biological sciences, 31 per-
cent in math, 35 percent in computer 
science, 34 percent in the physical 
sciences, and 22 percent in engineering. Now, the Obama administration has requested more investment for STEM 
teachers and additional funds to ex-
pand effective models of teacher prepa-
ration to help train 10,000 STEM edu-
cators per year. That™s what the Presi-dent™s budget proposes. Those are the 
same priorities, they are the right pri-
orities, and they™re the priorities that 
the Congressional Black Caucus agrees 
need to be supported by this Congress. We need to invest in teachers that will train students for jobs in the 21st 
century. But let me be clear: you can™t 
expect students to graduate with de-
grees in science, mathematics, engi-
neering, and technology if we™re not 
doing more to invest in pre-K and to 
help students start with a strong foun-
dation. And that™s why the President 
has a historic level of investment in his 
budget for early childhood education 
and pre-K. We enroll most kids in this country at 5 or 6 years old. We should be start-
ing them earlier; 50 years of research VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:58 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00037Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.073H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2288 April 24, 2013 tell us that critical development and learning happen before the age of five. 
When schooling starts at kindergarten 
or first grade, it denies these young 
people chances to make the most of 
this critical period. Fundamentally reforming our edu-cation system begins with high-quality 
pre-kindergarten programs. In my 
opinion, pre-kindergarten is an anti-
dote for the achievement gap. In cases 
where our kindergarten teachers are 
getting kids who™ve had, in some cases, 
2 years of early education, they™re see-
ing that the achievement gap has 
stopped or been narrowed. That™s why 
we need to invest in programs like 
Head Start so that we don™t have to 
play catch-up later or deny these 
young, bright minds the opportunities 
to go into the fields of the 21st century. So, Mr. Speaker, this is an and/also strategy, not an either/or. We believe 
that we can invest in both early child-
hood education, KŒ12 education and 
higher education, not cut, slash or 
deny these opportunities to America™s 
children. These are our priorities, and 
it™s what we™ll continue to fight for for 
all of America™s children. Mr. JEFFRIES. Thank you, Rep-resentative HORSFORD. And as was noted earlier, the CBC believes that 
there are children all across America, 
in many inner-city communities, cer-
tainly in the neighborhoods that I rep-
resent back home in Brooklyn and 
places like Bedford-Stuyvesant and 
east New York and parts of Coney Is-
land, where the public school system 
has failed them for decades, generation 
after generation after generation sub-
jected to a broken public school sys-
tem, from a very early point, all the 
way through high school. And unless we invest in turning these broken systems around, we™re essen-
tially at risk of dooming young people 
to life sentences of disadvantage and 
despair. That™s why the CBC supports 
the President™s proposal in his budget 
to invest an additional $75 billion over 
a 10-year period, as Representative 
HORSFORDindicated, in early childhood education to make sure that we give 
every American child the opportunity 
to be successful by putting them on an 
even plane with those who get the ben-
efit of a first-rate public or private 
school education. I want to yield to the distinguished gentleman from New Jersey, another 
dynamic member of the freshman 
class, Representative DONALDPAYNE, Jr., who was a leader on education 
issues prior to arriving in the Congress, 
and he™s continued to demonstrate 
leadership in this area and in other 
areas moving forward. Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleagues, Congressman 
HORSFORDof Nevada and Congressman JEFFRIESof New York, for anchoring tonight™s CBC Special Order on improv-
ing access to quality education. The recession, the economy, violence and gun control, the security of our 
Nation, these are the pressing issues being debated across this great Nation today. However, efforts to address the 
issues are being undermined by our Na-
tion™s educational deficit. John F. Kennedy said that ‚‚our progress as a Nation can be no swifter 
than our progress in education. The 
human mind is our fundamental re-
source.™™ True to this statement are struggles that we face as a Nation because of our 
divestment in our human mind and po-
tential. In the past, the U.S. led the 
world in several categories, including 
college graduates and innovation. Un-
fortunately, there has been a rapid de-
cline in our ranking in these areas that 
directly correlates to the strength of 
this Nation. Among these things, the U.S. has dropped considerably in academic 
rankings, compared to other developed 
nations. About 33 percent of our Na-
tion™s fourth-grade students are pro-
ficient readers. Nearly 7,000 students 
drop out of high school daily, and 
about a third of first-year American 
college students are required to take at 
least one remedial course. Globally, our rankings have fallen of our students in reading to 14th; in 
science, to 17th; and in mathematics, 
to 25th. Despite these daunting statis-
tics, the U.S. continues to lead the 
world in competitiveness, patents, 
media, mobile and research univer-
sities. But imagine the leadership that 
we could hold in the world if we 
strengthened our investment in edu-
cation. Our Nation continues to be at a loss due to the untapped potential of our 
students, especially students of color 
and low income. b1720 For this particular population, the statistics are even more daunting, but 
the potential is greater as well. Forty- 
two percent of Black students attend 
schools that are under-resourced and 
performing poorly. Twenty-eight per-
cent of core academic teachers at high- 
minority schools lack the appropriate 
certification. Black children, espe-
cially boys, are more likely to be clas-
sified and placed in special education 
than their white counterparts. Black 
and Hispanic males constitute 82 per-
cent of the youth in special education 
programs. Black boys are 2.5 times less 
likely to be enrolled in talented and 
gifted programs, even if their prior 
achievement reflects the ability to suc-
ceed. Yet despite these demoralizing facts, despite the failure of the American 
education system to properly educate 
these students, nearly 3 million college 
students in America are African Amer-
ican. And only 13 percent of the U.S. 
population, Black students represent 15 
percent of the college student popu-
lation. Currently, these are beating the odds; but imagine how we could de-
velop and succeed as a Nation if we 
changed the odds for these students and closed the opportunity gap. What if we strengthened our education system 
and allowed all children to reach their 
full potential? What if we fostered an 
environment of innovation and leader-
ship for this Nation™s outcomes in all 
communities equally? We have long held the solutions to address these issues, but they aren™t 
coordinated or connected. We have the 
potential to reach new heights as a Na-
tion, but it requires a stronger edu-
cation system as well as effective solu-
tions and resources to change the odds 
for our children in the most distressed 
communities. I will be introducing the Promise Neighborhoods Act soon to do just 
that. The Promise Neighborhoods ini-
tiative represents an unprecedented ef-
fort to work across silos and develop a comprehensive cradle-to-career pipe-
line for children in distressed neighbor-
hoods to holistically address barriers 
to success. The Promise Neighborhoods 
Act would foster continued collabora-
tion on the local level to build similar 
pipelines in communities across this 
country. The pipeline of tightly woven, com-prehensive support for children empha-
sized in the Promise Neighborhoods 
Act would provide, among other things: prenatal education and support for expecting parents; high-quality early childhood edu-cation opportunities, including full- 
day, full-year kindergarten and pre-
kindergarten; high-quality schools that success-fully leverage out-of-school time and 
community engagement; support for the transition to elemen-tary school, between elementary school 
and middle school, and from middle 
school to high school; meaningful family engagement and capacity-building; college and career readiness activi-ties, including college counseling, sub-
sidized employment opportunities, and 
early college programs; neighborhood-based support for col-lege-age students from the neighbor-
hood. This model engages the community to collaborate and end fragmented de-
livery of programs to develop a pipe-
line for programs with demonstrated 
success. This model aims to eliminate 
the opportunity gap for low-income 
children and children of color and set a 
new standard for education and success 
in this country. Though not realized, our Nation holds a great deal of underdeveloped 
potential, and it lies within our human 
capital. Investing in education will 
strengthen our Nation as a whole and 
position us to once again lead the 
world. Education is the single invest-
ment that can unequivocally develop 
our economy and strengthen our fu-
ture. Mr. JEFFRIES. I want to thank the distinguished gentleman from New Jer-
sey for his very astute observations. Mr. Speaker, how much time is re-maining on this Special Order? VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:58 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00038Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.075H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2289 April 24, 2013 The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-tleman has approximately 5 minutes 
remaining. Mr. JEFFRIES. Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Again, I thank the Representative from New Jersey for making it clear 
that all children in this country de-
serve the opportunity to be part of a 
pipeline toward progress and pros-
perity, even though some, unfortu-
nately, have been subjected to cir-
cumstances that often lead to a pipe-
line from the schoolhouse to the jail-
house. That™s not how things should be 
anywhere in America. And that™s why 
we believe a robust investment in edu-
cation is the right way to go in this 
country. I™m going to ask the distinguished gentleman from the Silver State for his 
observations on this chart. The chart 
illustrates that education pays. If you 
invest in education, increase the level 
of degree of attainment, what it does is 
increase the capacity for Americans to 
earn a better living. And so, for example, for Americans who have less than a high school di-
ploma, their average weekly earning is 
$451. But someone with a high school 
diploma earns, on average, $638 per 
week. And someone with a bachelor™s 
degree earns, on average, $1,053 per 
week. If you give an American an ad-
vanced degree, their average earnings 
per week increase to in excess of $1,600. Investing in education pays for the American people. I yield to my distinguished colleague from Nevada. Mr. HORSFORD. Just to elaborate further on this point, education attain-
ment is an economic imperative. Not 
only is it the investment in the indi-
vidual that proves great dividends and 
a return on investment, but the failure 
to invest, based on the bottom line in 
red, for someone with less than a high 
school diploma the likelihood of them 
being unemployed is 14 percent. For 
those with a high school diploma who 
are unemployed, it™s 9.4 percent. If you 
have a bachelor™s degree, the unem-
ployment rate drops in half, to 4.9 per-
cent. And if you have a professional de-
gree, the unemployment rate is 2.4 per-
cent. So the correlation is clear that with education attainment come economic 
prosperity, opportunity, and a return 
on investment that is good for that in-
dividual, their ability to provide for 
themselves and their family, and for 
our entire country. And so, Mr. Speaker, when we talk about investment, we™re not talking 
about investments in programs or sys-
tems. We™re talking about investments 
in people. When we talk about Head 
Start, we™re talking about 3- and 4- 
year-old children. When we talk about 
title 1 funding, we™re talking about 
schools and children that are identified 
as having low-income needs and the 
disadvantaged. When we talk about 
funding for IDEA, the Individuals with 
Disabilities Education Act, we™re talk-ing about individuals. And the more that we can invest in the individuals in 
America, the greater return we will 
have in the productivity of that indi-
vidual, their family, the community 
they live in. And that will make for a 
stronger America for all of us. That is 
what we are aspiring to accomplish in 
this 113th Congress. We want to work with our colleagues on the other side. Where they can meet 
us in the middle to find solutions to 
make these investments, we look for-
ward to working with them. But one 
thing we will not do is to slash, defund, 
or freeze the investment of the Amer-
ican children and the American family. Mr. JEFFRIES. I thank the gen-tleman from Nevada. We will not, as he 
indicated, support any budget that bal-
ances itself on the backs of children or 
young people or college students in 
America. Unfortunately, that is the 
budget that has been put forth by my 
colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle. We support a balanced approach 
to dealing with the economic problems 
that we have in this country that in-
volves the investment in education. 
That is what we stand for. That™s what 
is good for America. I yield back the balance of my time. 
Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it has been over 60 years since 
the Supreme Court™s decision in Brown v. 
Board of Education desegregated our schools. 
Yet an achievement and opportunity gap re-
mains among our minority and low-income 
students. As Members of Congress who represent communities of color, the purpose of today™s 
special order is to highlight an economic and 
social crisis America faces if this problem is 
not confronted and significant measures are 
not taken. Particularly, we must focus our ef-
forts on closing the gap in the STEM dis-
ciplines. As the First Female and First African 
American Ranking Member of the House 
Science, Space and Technology Committee, 
this is an issue that is very serious to me and 
has been one of the pillars of my legislative 
agenda in the United States Congress for over 
20 years. Ensuring minorities are proficient in STEM is more than just a question of equity. We have 
a vast, untapped pool of talent in America, 
and this pool is continuing to grow. It is esti-
mated that, by 2050, 52 percent of the U.S. 
population will be from underrepresented mi-
nority groups. Our ‚‚Nation™s Report Card,™™ by 
the National Assessments of Educational 
Progress, shows that students from underrep-
resented minorities are falling behind in math 
and science as early as 4th grade. At the Post Secondary level, even though students from underrepresented minorities 
made up about 33 percent of the college age 
population in 2009, they only made up: 19 
percent of students who received an under-
graduate STEM degrees Less than 9 percent 
of students enrolled in science and engineer-
ing graduate programs, and; Barely 8 percent 
of students who received PhDs in STEM 
fields. Frankly, all of these numbers are much 
too low. I also must underscore the important role that community colleges play in providing to 
STEM degrees for minority students. 50 per-cent of African Americans, 55 percent of His-panics, and 64 percent of Native Americans 
who hold bachelor™s or master™s degrees in 
science or engineering attended a community 
college at some point. We cannot afford to ig-
nore the role of community colleges. We have to drastically increase the number of African American students from these 
groups receiving degrees in STEM disciplines, 
or we will undoubtedly relinquish our global 
leadership in innovation and job creation. We 
know school administrators, teachers, commu-
nity leaders, public-private partnerships and 
parents all play a critical role in addressing 
this issue. No one person or organization can 
do it alone. We must all work together to le-
verage our respective strengths and resources 
to tackle this challenge. For example, the corporate community was highly involved supporting a bill I co-authored, 
the America COMPETES Act. As many of you 
are aware, I recently introduced the STEM 
Opportunities Act of 2013 this March. The 
STEM Opportunities Act of 2013 will help ad-
dress many of the challenges faced by women 
and underrepresented minorities pursuing 
science, technology, engineering, and mathe-
matics (STEM) research careers by: Requiring the National Science Foundation (NSF) to collect more comprehensive demo-
graphic data on the recipients of federal re-
search awards and on STEM faculty at U.S. 
universities (while protecting individuals™ pri-
vacy); ,Promoting data-driven research on the 
participation and trajectories of women and 
underrepresented minorities in STEM so that 
policy makers can design more effective poli-
cies and practices to reduce barriers; And de-
veloping, through the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy (OSTP), consistent federal 
policies, such as no-cost extensions and flexi-
bility in timing for the initiation of the award, 
for recipients of federal research awards who 
have caregiving responsibilities, including care 
for a newborn or newly adopted child and care 
for an immediate family member who is sick. We™re all in this together, and working to-gether I know we can achieve great success. f REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF 
H.R. 527, RESPONSIBLE HELIUM 
ADMINISTRATION AND STEW-
ARDSHIP ACT Mr. BISHOP of Utah (during the Spe-cial Order of Mr. JEFFRIES), from the Committee on Rules, submitted a priv-
ileged report (Rept. No. 113Œ47) on the 
resolution (H. Res. 178) providing for 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 527) to 
amend the Helium Act to complete the 
privatization of the Federal helium re-
serve in a competitive market fashion 
that ensures stability in the helium 
markets while protecting the interests 
of American taxpayers, and for other 
purposes, which was referred to the 
House Calendar and ordered to be 
printed. f b1730 IMMIGRATION REFORM The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker™s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2013, the Chair recognizes the VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:58 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00039Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.078H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2290 April 24, 2013 gentleman from Iowa (Mr. KING) for 30 minutes. Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, it™s my privilege to be recognized to ad-
dress you here on the floor of the 
House of Representatives. I™ve listened to the dialogue over the last, oh, 30 to 60 minutes and I™m a lit-
tle bit surprised that some of the advo-
cates for the comprehensive immigra-
tion reform bill wouldn™t simply look 
at the impact on a lot of their friends 
and neighbors. We see the highest un-
employment in the African American 
community. That™s the direct competi-
tion that comes in if they grant am-
nesty on the Senate side. I ask the gen-
tleman to reconsider that. The best 
thing that would be would be more jobs 
for people that are here that are Amer-
icans. I see the gentleman from Texas has arrived. Generally, there is a pretty 
good narrative that comes forth from 
the gentleman from the Beaumont 
area, so I would be very pleased to 
yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
POE). PROFESSORRICHARDFALKISINFANTASYLAND
 Mr. POE of Texas. I thank the gen-tleman from Iowa for yielding some 
time. I want to address the House on a 
different issue tonight, but I do appre-
ciate the time and letting me be off the 
subject that he was going to, and will, 
talk about momentarily. Mr. Speaker, as you know, there are people in BostonŠand really around 
the world, and in the United States es-
peciallyŠtrying to recover from the 
terrorist attack that took place in Bos-
ton. The Richard family laid their 8- 
year-old boy to rest, as did other fami-
lies. As a father of 4 and a grandfather 
of 10, no parent or grandparent ever 
wants to see a child die in their youth, 
especially being murdered the way this 
young lad was. But meanwhile, in the halls of aca-demia, Richard Falk, a professor and 
an official with the United Nations 
Human Rights Council, he blamed the 
terrorist attack on what he claims is 
American global dominationŠand on 
the country of Israel, of all things. 
What an absurd comment for this so- 
called ‚‚intellectual™™ to make. The vile 
comments come only 2 years after he 
personally was reprimanded by the 
United Nations for promoting fantasy- 
like 9/11 conspiracy theories. Mr. Speaker, why is Richard Falks still employed by the United Nations 
Human Rights Council? Can someone please explain why the United States also continues to be the 
largest funder of the United Nations, 
which gives radical wingbats like Falk 
a platform to spew their hate and anti- 
American rhetoric? I don™t think the 
United States should be bankrolling 
the United Nations Human Rights 
Council. Let them find somebody else 
to foot the bill for this international 
institute of ingratitude. It™s time for the elitist, uninformed like Mr. Falk to go, and it™s certainly 
time for the United States to stop funding the Human Rights Council. We don™t need to pay people like Professor 
Falk to hate America. People like him 
will do it for free. Meanwhile, let™s try the Boston ter-rorists for their crimes against Amer-
ica; hold them accountable for murder. 
And don™t try to blame America for the 
murder of America™s children. Blame 
the killers. And that™s just the way it is. 
Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gen-tleman from Texas for his message. It™s 
one that I hope, Mr. Speaker, is well 
heard across America: You don™t have 
to pay them to hate us. They hate us 
for free. They hate us for our ideology 
and for our success, for all of those rea-
sons. Mr. Speaker, I came here to the floor tonight to talk about the immigration 
issue here in the United States Con-
gress, primarily that has emerged in 
the United States Senate out of the 
Gang of Eight. We know that there are some of these policies that are being worked through 
in meetings behind closed doors in the 
House of Representatives. They seem 
to admit to those meetings, but they™re 
not very public and we don™t know very 
much about what they™re talking 
about. I just get nervous when I see 
bills written in secret. The Gang of Eight wrote their bill in secret and popped it out last week or 
so, a little more, and we began to look 
through 844 pages. Surprise. Well, 
shortly after the bill was dropped, then 
the chairman of the Judiciary Com-
mittee in the Senate calls hearings and 
begins to do the fastest process that 
they can legitimately get done to try 
to move an immigration amnesty bill 
out of the Senate before it gets so 
many holes poked in it that it sinks of 
its own weight. I take you back, Mr. Speaker, to: How did we get here? What was the sce-
nario? What™s the path of immigration? 
I will go through the fast-forward 
version, backing this up to 1986. In 1986, it became a political issue that we had too many people in the 
United States illegally. There was an 
effort made to resolve the issue and the 
effort was this: Part of the people in the argument said they wanted better border security 
and they wanted better immigration 
enforcement. The other side of the ar-
gument said we™ve got to do something 
to legalize people that are here thatŠ 
I don™t know if they used the language 
then if they were in the shadows or 
not. Those two arguments came to-
gether here in this Congress. And with 
Ronald Reagan sitting in the White 
House, he received significant pressure 
from the people around him that urged 
him to sign the 1986 Amnesty Act. Now, 
that was one of only two times that 
Ronald Reagan let me down in 8 years. 
But he accepted the arguments that 
the only way to get agreement on en-
forcement and to be able to respect and 
restore the rule of law was to make the 
people that were here illegally legal. The tradeoff was amnesty in exchange for enforcement. So, Mr. Speaker, the projection origi-nally was 800,000 people in this country 
illegally that would get instantaneous 
legalization status, and then that num-
ber of course grew to 1 million. Rough-
ly, that was the projected amount at 
the time that the bill was debated in 
Congress. We know that, instead, there 
wasn™t 1 million people. It was 3 mil-
lion people that ended up receiving am-nesty from the deliberations in this 
Congress, the tug-of-war that came to-
gether, and it™s a product of com-
promise. I would point out that com-
promise isn™t always a good thing. This 
would be one of those examples. The compromise was, in exchange for the promise of future enforcement, 
Ronald Reagan would sign the bill to 
instantaneously start the process to le-
galize the people that were illegally in 
the United States. Sounds familiar. 
Well, he signed the bill in ™86. What we 
got was instantaneous legalization of 
the people that were hereŠtriple the 
number that was projectedŠand the ef-
fort to get law enforcement was under-
mined continually. It was undermined 
in a number of ways: through litiga-
tion, through lack of will. As it ground 
forward, the respect for the rule of law, 
especially with regard to immigration 
law, diminished in each year. As we™ve seen, the enforcement of our immigration laws has diminished in 
each administration, from Ronald 
Reagan through Bush 41, to Bill Clin-
ton, to Bush 43, and now to Barack 
Obama. That™s the path that has taken 
place. Just a year ago, the debate was: Would Congress pass the DREAM Act, 
the DREAM Act being the legislation 
that I™ll say the chief advocate for it in 
the Senate has been Senator DURBINof Illinois. He has identified with it more 
than anyone else. But the DREAM Act 
is: those kids that came here, say, be-
fore their 18th birthdayŠand that goes 
up and down to 16, or on up to a little 
older than that. Those that came here 
when they were relatively young, 
maybe due to no fault of their ownŠ 
theoretically, someone who was born 5 
minutes before in a foreign country 
that was brought in by their parents as 
a little baby would get a legal status. 
And, by the way, in-State tuition dis-
counts so they can go to college, get 
legal status, and be able to work in the 
country. In other words, it was amnesty for those young people who presumably 
came into this country not of their 
own will or perhaps not of their own 
knowledge that it was against the law 
to enter the United States illegally, or 
those that might have been brought 
into the country under a visa of one 
kind or another, overstayed their visa 
and didn™t have a legal status anymore. 
In any case, the younger people given a 
path to a legal status and a legal green 
card here in the United States, that™s 
the DREAM Act. A year ago, Mr. Speaker, it was not something that could pass the United VerDate Mar 15 2010 01:58 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00040Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.080H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2291 April 24, 2013 States Congress. They long wanted to get the DREAM Act passed, but they 
could not because we stood on the rule 
of law and we said we are not going to 
reward people who break the law with, 
let™s just say, a de facto scholarship to 
a universityŠand in California, it 
would be a free ride. I made the argu-
ment that how can you legalize people 
that are here illegally, refuse to en-
force the law, the clear directive of the 
law, and have people sitting in a class-
room in, say, California with a free ride 
while someone who has lost their hus-
band or wife in battle in Iraq or Af-
ghanistan, who finds themselves the 
sole breadwinner for their family, 
wants to go to CaliforniaŠI™ll use as 
the exampleŠand have to pay out-of- 
State tuition in a California institu-
tion, who is a widow or a widower of 
someone who has given their life for 
our country, they™re sitting there next 
to someone who is in the United States 
illegally that gets a free ride because 
they™ve been declared a California resi-
dent. b1740 I could never reconcile the huge in-equity, the injustice of that idea, and 
neither could a majority of Americans 
or a majority of the United States Con-
gress. That™s why the DREAM Act 
wasn™t passed. Just a year ago that 
couldn™t be done. The President said on March 28 of 2010, when he was speaking to a high 
school group here in the Washington, 
D.C. area, they asked him: Why don™t 
you just pass the DREAM Act by exec-
utive order, implement that? And the 
President™s answer was: No, I don™t 
have the constitutional authority to do 
so. That is a legislative branch activ-
ity. And he said: You™re smart, you™re 
educated, you know that in the three 
branches of government Congress™ job 
is to pass the laws, my job as Presi-
dent, the head of the executive branch, 
is to carry those laws out and see to it 
that they are enacted and enforced, 
and the judicial branch is to rule on 
their constitutionality to tell us what 
the laws are understood to mean. That was the description that the President gave March 28, 2010. He said 
he didn™t have the authority to imple-
ment a DREAM Act by executive au-
thority. Congress wouldn™t pass it a 
year ago; the President said he 
couldn™t do such a thing constitu-
tionally, March 28, 2010. And here we™ve 
come so far that in June or JulyŠand 
I don™t have those dates in front of me, 
nor committed to memory, Mr. Speak-
erŠthe President went back on his own 
advice, word, oath of office and counsel 
when they issued an executive memo-
randum. He held a press conference at the White House within a couple hours of 
the executive memorandum and said: 
We are going to legalize all of these 
people that are here within these age 
groups that fit the definition of the 
DREAM ActŠan executive edict, not 
exactly an executive order, because it was only a memorandum between the Department of Homeland Security that 
they put outŠand that they would fol-
low this guideline. They created four 
classes of people that were defined by 
age and by status, but four separate 
classes of people created in this memo-
randum. And the President manufactured a work permit out of thin air, Mr. Speak-
er, just simply made it up. All of the 
visas that exist in law, of course, are a 
product of Congress. And it™s our exclu-
sive authority to define immigration 
law. It™s the President™s job to enforce 
the laws that are on the books. Now, the previous President had the opportunity to veto immigration law. 
It™s all signed into law and it is the law 
of the land. The Constitution is the su-
preme law of the land. The President 
violated the Constitution and his own 
definition of congressional executive 
and judicial authority when he issued 
this executive memorandum that 
granted this legal status under the 
DREAM Act principles. That happened, 
I would say, June or July of last year. Now we™ve come a quantum leap. As we go forward, we put together a meet-
ing and organized the effort to take the 
President to court on that issue. You 
cannot have a President that™s going to 
legislate by executive edict. But he did 
do that; and that case, Mr. Speaker, 
has worked its way through the courts. 
And I™m here to announce in the CON-GRESSIONALRECORDthe results. The name of the case is Crane v. Napolitano. This references the lead plaintiff as Christopher Crane, who is 
the president of the ICE union, the Im-
migration and Customs Enforcement 
union. He has been a stellar individual 
on this. He stood boldly and strongly, 
and he™s taken the threats and the buf-
feting that comes from all sides of this 
argument. He™s testified before Con-
gress. He has stood at a press con-
ference and asked to be recognized to 
ask questions of Senators over on the 
Senate side. And he has flawlessly 
walked his way down through this 
thing by standing for the rule of law 
and for the Constitution and his own 
oath to uphold the law, as we have 
taken that oath here in this Congress 
to uphold the Constitution. This decision that came down yester-day from a Federal District Court in 
Houston in the case of Crane v. Napoli-tano, there were 10 points that were made in this litigation, Mr. Speaker. 
Nine of the 10, the judge found clearly 
down on the side of those who support 
the Constitution and the rule of law 
and rejected the executive branch™s ar-
gument that they had prosecutorial 
discretion to decide who to prosecute 
and who not to prosecute. Time after time the judge wrote: When Congress writes in statute the 
word ‚‚shall,™™ shall means shall. It 
doesn™t mean may; it means shall. That 
means that when an ICE officer picks 
someone up and identifies them as 
likely to be in violation of immigra-
tion laws, they shall be placed in de-portation proceedings. That™s a ‚‚shall™™ that™s in the law that was upheld by 
the Court yesterday in their decision 
on this multiple-page decision. So nine 
of the 10 components of the argument, 
several of which I made early on after 
that issuing of the executive edict last 
year, nine of 10 were upheld. The 10th argument was one that the President sent it back to the executive 
branch and said: your argument is so 
illogical and baseless and convoluted 
and tied to footnotes, go back and re-
write your argument. But the implica-
tion or the tone of that is once that™s 
rewritten, he™s probably going to find 
it. I guess I don™t want to put words in 
a judge™s mouth. I™m optimistic about 
how that final component of the ruling 
will be. In any case, it™s almost a 100 percent resounding decision that says: Barack 
Obama and his appointees cannot write 
immigration law out of thin air. They 
can™t do so by executive memorandum, 
they cannot do so by edict, they cannot 
do so by executive order. Congress 
writes immigration laws, Mr. Speaker, 
and the President™s job is to take care 
that those laws be faithfully executed. 
He has not done that. He™s defied his 
own oath of office. The Federal Court 
has ruled on the side of article I, legis-
lative branch of Congress. We will see 
the impact of this decision. I think, Mr. Speaker, that now it™s time for the Gang of Eight to reassess 
as a result of this lawsuit. It™s time for 
the open-border advocates in this Con-
gress to reassess as a result of this law-
suit. They had concluded, the people on 
my side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, ap-
pear to have concluded that Repub-
licans didn™t win the elections they an-
ticipated winning last November. On 
the morning after the election, some of 
our otherwise wise folks on our side of 
the aisle concluded that Mitt Romney 
would have been President-elect if he 
just hadn™t said two words, ‚‚self-de-
port,™™ and so now there has to be an ef-
fort to try to, let™s say, start the con-
versation with select groups of people 
across the country that would require 
that amnesty be passed to ‚‚start the 
conversation.™™ Mr. Speaker, I would urge all of those to reassess the situation and think 
about this. They were seeking to con-
form to the President™s edict on his 
DREAM Act life. They were seeking to 
adjust U.S. law under the premise that 
the President refused to enforce exist-
ing law, and the only way that we 
could get law enforcement would be to 
conform to the President™s wishes and 
rewrite the law and conform it to the 
President™s political agenda. I thought from the beginning it was a ludicrous position to take, to accept an 
idea that the President can, first, write 
a law by executive edict; and, second, 
Congress has to conform. Now, I™ve 
seen it happen and participated in it in 
this Congress, Mr. Speaker, when we 
have a piece of legislation and it finds 
its way over to the Supreme Court and 
the Supreme Court comes down with a VerDate Mar 15 2010 03:24 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00041Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.081H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2292 April 24, 2013 ruling, and then Congress takes a look at the language of that Supreme 
Court™s ruling, and we will bring a 
piece of legislation to conform with a 
directive from the Supreme Court. I 
think that™s an appropriate thing for us 
to do, provided we agree with the Su-
preme Court™s decision and it™s clear, 
logical legal analysis. When we have 
done that, I™ve agreed. An example would be the language on partial-birth abortion that banned it. 
The first time it went to the Supreme 
Court, the Supreme Court ruled that 
the definition of ‚‚partial-birth abor-
tion™™ was too vague. So we went back 
and fine-tuned that language, passed it 
out of the Judiciary Committee, passed 
it out of the House and the Senate, 
President Bush signed it, and it was 
upheld when it found its way back 
again before the Supreme Court. b1750 That™s okay, and it™s an appropriate and proper thing for this Congress to 
doŠto conform our legislation to a Su-
preme Court decision when it™s a prop-
er one. But when the President defies 
the law and the policy established by 
the United States Congress and makes 
up his own as he goes along by execu-
tive edict and press conference and for 
Congress to accept the idea that the 
President of the United States directs 
us, either implied or literally, to con-
form the law to the President™s wishes, 
I would remind all of those people who 
happen to think that, Mr. Speaker, 
that we each have our own franchise. Our oath is to uphold the Constitu-tion. It™s not to conform to the Presi-
dent™s whims or wishes. It™s to rep-
resent the best decisions for this coun-
try and to represent the people in the 
districts that we represent. We owe 
them our best judgment and our best 
effort, but we don™t owe anybody an ob-
ligation to conform to the President™s 
wishes, will, or whim. That has to only 
conform with our best judgment, indi-
vidual best judgment, collectively 
measured here in this CongressŠHouse 
and Senate. So I think that a Congress that would be willing to give up its legisla-
tive authority and let that power go 
over to the executive branch by con-
forming the idea of amnesty that the 
President has brought forward in his 
edict I think our Founding Fathers did 
not imagine. They did not imagine that 
this branch of government would be so 
willing to give up this power. Our 
Founding Fathers imagined that each 
branch of government would jealously 
guard the power that™s granted it with-
in the Constitution in the three sepa-
rate branches of government. They ex-
pected that Congress would assert its 
authority in competition with and in a static tension with the President and 
with the courts. The courts, by the 
way, were designed to be the weakest 
of the three branches of government. 
That™s a longer discussion. The Gang of Eight, though, brought their bill out. What is it, Mr. Speaker? 
It is this: It is amnesty first. It instanta-neously legalizes everybody that™s in 
the country illegally with a few tiny, 
little exceptions, and that™s if we run 
across them randomly and if they hap-
pen to have committed a felony or 
three misdemeanors. Other than that, 
it instantaneously legalizes everybody 
who™s here illegally whether they com-
mitted a crime of illegally crossing the 
border or whether they overstayed 
their visa or whether they committed 
the crime of document fraud. Those 
kinds of things are just simply not en-
forced by this administration. They are 
treating immigration law as if it™s a 
secondary crime. An example of that would be, if you™ve got States that say that you 
can™t pull somebody over for not wear-
ing their seatbelt, but if they™re speed-
ing and if it happens to be they™re not 
wearing their seatbelt, you can write 
the ticket for that. That™s kind of the 
equivalent of what™s going on here. The President essentially issued this edict that, if somebody is guilty of a 
felony and if they™re unlawfully in the 
United States, then we will go ahead 
and deport them; but otherwise they 
would get similar treatment as, oh, 
let™s say, the President™s aunt, who was 
adjudicated for deportation and who 
lived in the country illegally for years 
after that. Finally, she surfaced again, 
and they granted her asylum status. If 
they™d sent her back to Kenya, she 
would have apparently been subject to 
kidnap and ransom, so they gave her 
asylum. I guess it™s an undecided case 
with the President™s Uncle Omar, who 
was picked up for drunken driving. He 
had already been adjudicated for depor-
tation. We would know if he were any-
place other than still in the United 
States of America. The law didn™t apply to the Presi-dent™s relations, and I guess in order to 
conform with that, the President would 
like to exempt everybody from the 
same law that his family has been ex-
empted from. I disagree. Congress 
writes the laws, and the President™s job 
is to carry them out. In this Gang of Eight™s legislation, it™s instantaneous amnesty for almost 
everybody, and that is breathtaking in 
the magnitude of it. They say 11 mil-
lion. I say 11 million, 12 million, more 
likely 20 million. Here is what I would 
guarantee you, Mr. Speaker: if they 
move legislation out of the Senate and 
if it does come to the House, along the 
way, if any of us introduce an amend-
ment that would cap the legalization 
number at their estimated number, 
they will never support such an amend-
ment because they know it™s a lot more 
than 11 million people. It™s instanta-
neous amnesty for 11 to 20-or-more mil-
lion people, but that™s not good enough 
for them. They also had to write into the bill that, if you have previously been de-
ported and if you find yourself waking 
up in a country that you™re legal to 
live in, we still send an invitation 
through this bill that you should apply to come back into the United States because we really didn™t mean it, Mr. 
Speaker. We didn™t really mean it, the 
idea that people were deported for vio-
lating immigration law. If they™d like 
to reapply, unless they have a felony 
conviction or three misdemeanor con-
victions, they™re going to give them a 
path to come back to the United 
States. So this isn™t just amnesty for 
those who are here now. This is am-
nesty for those who have been sent 
home as wellŠan absolute open-door 
policy. And the trade off isŠwhat?Šamnesty first for the promise of enforcement. 
It™s the same thing that came along in 
1986 and multiple times since thenŠ 
amnesty for the promise of enforce-
ment. The promise of enforcement is that Janet Napolitano is to produce within 5 
years a plan to get 90 percent oper-
ational control of the critical sectors 
of the border that she designates, the 
90 percent of those that we see, of 
course, because you can™t count those 
that you can™t see. So they want to be 
able to catch 90 percent of those that 
you can see. We don™t know if they™re 
going to turn their eyes the other way, 
but here is what I know: we are never 
going to see the enforcement side of 
this. It™s amnesty first, a promise of 
enforcement second. That has never 
worked. If they were serious, they would go to work and secure the border, shut off 
the jobs magnet, restore the respect for 
the rule of law. We would know in this 
country if there were respect for the 
rule of law restored, and at that point, 
I™m ready to sit down and talk. I™m 
ready to have that conversation but 
not absent the reestablishment of the 
rule of law, and that means border con-
trol, serious border control. We™ve got 
the resources to do it, Mr. Speaker. It™s 
not that we don™t have it. We™re spending over $6 million a mile on the southern border. You can build 
a four-lane interstate across Iowa corn-
fields for $4 million a mile. You can 
buy the right-of-way; you can engineer 
it; you can design it; you can do the ar-
cheological and the environmental; you 
can grade it; you can put the drainage 
in; you can pave it; you can paint it; 
you can shoulder it; you can seed it; 
and you can put fences on itŠall of 
that for $4 million a mile through Iowa 
cornfields. You cannot convince me 
that we couldn™t take about a third of 
that $6 million a mile and in a few 
years build the finest, most sophisti-
cated barrier along our southern bor-
der. We can take some lessons from the Israelis, for example, who get a 99.9 
percent efficiency rate at their border 
barrier. They do that because their 
lives depend on it. So do ours in a lot 
of ways, Mr. Speaker. It™s not that hard 
to build infrastructure and add to that 
infrastructure the sensory devices so 
that we can actually get the warning 
signals when people do get across such 
a barrier. We can do all of that. We can VerDate Mar 15 2010 02:26 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00042Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.083H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2293 April 24, 2013 do it with the resources that we have. We can do it well up into the 90-some 
percentile of efficiency with the money 
that we have, and we can shut off the 
jobs magnet. All we need to do is pass the New IDEA Act. IDEA, the Illegal Deduction 
Elimination Act. It clarifies that wages 
and benefits paid to illegals are not tax 
deductible. It lets the IRS come in. 
Under their normal auditing process, 
they would run the employees through 
E-Verify. When they™d run the employ-
ees through E-Verify, then we would 
give the employer safe harbor if they™d 
use E-Verify. That™s a nice, comforting 
thing. Each employer would want to 
have that. If the IRS concludes that 
you™ve knowingly, willingly, or ne-
glectfully been employing illegals, 
they would rule that wages and bene-
fits paid to them are not a business ex-
pense. That means, out of your Sched-
ule C, that money comes out and goes 
over into the gross receipts again and 
shows up in the bottom line as taxable 
income, and your $10-an-hour illegal 
employee turns into a $16-an-hour ille-
gal employee, and it becomes a prudent 
business decision on the part of the em-
ployer to use E-Verify to clean up his 
workforce. So there are two simple things, Mr. Speaker: We can provide that border security with the resources that we have by 
adding infrastructure, by adding and 
utilizing technology in addition toŠ 
and I have not said 2,000 miles of border 
fenceŠa fence, a wall and a fence. We 
just build it according to the directives 
of the Secure Fence Act and keep 
building it until they stop going 
around the end. We shut off the jobs 
magnet and restore the rule of law. 
Then let™s have a conversation, Mr. 
Speaker; but until then, I™m going to 
stand on defending the rule of law. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. f b1800 AMERICA™S DEBT The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker™s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2013, the Chair recognizes the 
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. ROKITA) for 30 minutes. Mr. ROKITA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to talk about the most impor-
tant issue of our time in this country, 
and really the world. We are nearly $17 trillion in debt and $100 trillion in debt in unfunded prom-
ises to our children and grandchildren 
that they stand to inherit if we fail to 
act. This is an issue that my colleagues 
and I on the Budget Committee take 
very seriously, and I know that most 
Members of this body take very seri-
ously. To that end, we view our role as not only legislators, but educators. And in 
our great State of Indiana, I talk about 
this issue almost in a nauseating fash-
ion to some, but I think it™s very im-portant that we as people, as Ameri-cans, Mr. Speaker, understand what 
the situation really is because at the 
end of the day, I am very optimistic 
that when given the facts, the people of 
this country, as President Reagan ob-
served several years ago, will right the 
ship, will do the right thing. We™ll start 
to live within our means again, and 
they will take control of the situation. I don™t think ultimately, Mr. Speak-er, that the reform that is needed to 
solve this problem will actually start 
or come from this floor or the floor of 
our colleagues that we have on the 
other side of the rotunda. The reform 
and the solution to this problem will 
come from Main Street, will come from 
the farm fields and the businesses and 
the kitchen tables of the great patriots 
across this land. So it™s in that vein, Mr. Speaker, that I want to make a presentation 
here on the floor of the House. I also 
make this presentation because of the 
current situation that we™re in with re-
gard to our budgeting process. As I speak with you here on the floor tonight, Mr. Speaker, we have a budget 
that passed the House of Representa-
tives, we have a budget that passed the 
United States Senate, and after 2 
months of being late, as it has been 
nearly every year that this current 
President has been in office, we finally 
have a budget from our President. The main differenceŠwell, there are several differencesŠbut the main dif-
ference I want to point out tonight be-
tween these budgets is that the budget 
that came out of this House is the only 
one that balances. Why is that impor-
tant? It™s important because if you 
never present and pass a budget that 
balancesŠand let me remind you that 
a balanced approach isn™t a balanced 
budget. Someone™s opinion of a bal-
anced approach, like our President™s, 
doesn™t mean that the budget balances, 
no matter how many times he or House 
Democrats say that. The reason it™s so important that a budget balances is because it shows 
your intent; it shows your intent to fi-
nally start paying off the debt. Because 
like everyone knows, you can™t pos-
sibly start paying nearly $17 trillion in 
debt until you get to a balanced budget 
so that you have a surplus, hopefully, 
and then, in fact, use that surplus to 
pay down the debt. So if you present and pass a budget that never balances, you intend by 
what you™re saying and doing there to 
never pay off the debt. And I would 
submit that when you do that, you 
can™t call it debt any more because 
what you™re doing is stealing. You™re 
stealing from future Americans. You™re 
stealing from the children of tomor-
row, children that don™t exist yet and 
therefore have no voice in the matter 
because they can™t vote. What an easy 
target they are. So when you pass and you vote for budgets that never balance, that™s 
what you™re doing, you™re stealing. 
Let™s call it what it is, Mr. Speaker. Now, I want to be clear, this isn™t a partisan set of remarks because it™s not 
a partisan issue. In fact, it™s very bi-
partisan, and this chart here shows 
that. Going from beyond KennedyŠbut I just started tracking from President 
Kennedy onŠevery one of our presi-
dents, who represented both parties 
since the 1960s, have accrued increasing 
levels of debt. Even Mr. Clinton, with 
the help of this Republican House who 
had technically balanced budgets, I 
think, four times in his 8 years, still 
overall ran up a very slight debt. I want to be clear that our debt prob-lems did not start on January 20, 2009, 
with the inauguration of President 
Obama. But as this chart also shows, 
our debt problems have been increas-
ingly and drastically exacerbated since 
that time, and we need to get this 
under control. Let™s take a look at exactly how much we™re borrowing and what™s caus-
ing this debt. And I™m grateful tonight 
for the help of my staff member, Zach 
Zagar, who is on the floor with me to 
help get me through these slides a lit-
tle bit quicker. We are borrowing 31 cents of every dollar the Federal Government is 
spending. Now, I™ll admit to you, Mr. 
Speaker, that has actually improved. 
When I started making this presen-
tation about a year and a half ago, 2 
years ago, we were borrowing 42 cents 
of every dollar we spend. But thanks to 
some good revenue forecasts and espe-
cially leadership right here in the 
House of Representatives, we™ve al-
ready been able to make some sensible 
cuts and rein in spending that has de-
creased some of that spending. But 
again, until we stop borrowing, we can-
not begin to start paying down this 
debt: 31 cents of every dollar, Mr. 
Speaker. Let™s also be honest. We™ve been in debt before as a country, and the ques-
tion then arises, why should we worry 
so much now. Well, we should worry 
now. Let me explain why we should 
worry by going back to the last time 
that this country was in this kind of 
debt, when our debt level, if you in-
clude the Social Security trust fund, 
reached nearly and over 100 percent of 
gross domestic product. That time was 
right at the end of World War II. So what makes our situation so dif-ferent now than the last time we were 
in so much debt? Well, number one, the 
cause of our debt back at the end of 
World War II was much different than 
now. The cause of our debt back then 
was, in fact, the war, and it was a one- 
time event. One way or another, even 
back then, we knew it was going to 
end. If it ended well for us, if we won, 
which we did, we would have a good 
economy coming out of that war, we 
would become creditor to the world and 
we would begin paying down that debt. 
In fact, that™s exactly what happened. 
If we had lost World War II, I guess it 
wouldn™t really matter how much debt VerDate Mar 15 2010 02:26 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00043Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.085H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2294 April 24, 2013 we had because we would all be speak-ing perhaps a different language. This 
country might not even exist. The drivers of our debt today, how-ever, have absolutely no intention of 
ending as they currently stand. I™ll get 
to that in a little bit. The drivers of 
our debt today are the social entitle-
ment programs and the interest that 
we continually owe ourselves and other 
countries. The second difference between the last time that we had this level of debt 
and now is who we owe this debt to. 
Back then, during World War II, we 
owed the debt to ourselves, nearly 100 
percent. Remember the war bond post-
ers, Mr. Speaker? Remember when 
Americans stood up, bought those 
bonds and we financed World War II? b1810 Increasingly, as this chart shows, our debt is owed to other countries, the 
largest of which right now is China. 
It™s getting to the point where the debt 
we owe to other countries is nearly 
half our total debt. So we increasingly 
have creditors who, by definition, don™t 
have our best interests at heart, not 
like we did as individual Americans 
buying those war bonds, and that™s a 
problem. It™s such a problem that it 
has become a national security issue, 
and that needs to be addressed as well. Think about this, Mr. Speaker: with the interest that we pay China alone 
on the credit they issue to us by buying 
our Treasury bonds, et cetera, China 
with that interest payment every week 
can buy three new joint strike fighters 
if we let them, if those were in produc-
tion. They can finance their military 
operations just on the money we give 
them. And in this increasingly complex 
world, changing every day, new 
threats, new risks, that is a particu-
larly vulnerable place to be, and we are 
doing it to ourselves because of our re-
fusal to balance budgets and otherwise 
live within our means, to put more on 
our plates now at the expense of our 
national security and at the expense of 
the children of tomorrow, people who 
don™t exist yet and therefore have no 
voice in the matter. I have to tell you, it is hard for me even as a Budget Committee member 
to visualize what $17 trillion really 
looks like, what it means; and I cer-
tainly can™t understand or visualize 
what I said earlier about the $100 tril-
lion that™s on the way, specifically over 
the next 50 to 75 years, representing 
the promises that we™ve made under 
the social entitlement programs. 
That™s what™s coming. In fact, our 
country will be bankrupt, I™m sure, and 
we™ll be off the world™s reserve cur-
rency long before we reach the $100 
trillion, but it™s coming and it™s real. So what I like to do is take actual budget numbers and break off eight 
zeros from them so I get them in a 
more manageable fashion. The Presi-
dent has said, I™ve heard him reference 
the Federal Government as some kind 
of Federal family. Well, I don™t know if I™d take it that far, but let™s assume for purposes of this debt discussion that 
the Federal Government acted as a 
family. Here™s what our Federal budget 
picture looks like. Our annual family income, $25,000. Those are the tax receipts, the revenue 
we get from the people of this country, 
their property that we confiscate to 
run the Federal Government, some of 
it necessary, most of it increasingly 
not necessary. Our annual family 
spending, $36,000. That is eight zeroes 
lopped off, a rounded real number, 
leaving us an annual debt that we have 
to put onto one family credit card of 
$11,000. So we™re a family. We™re making $25,000. We™re spending $36,000, a deficit 
of $11,000. It goes on a credit card, the 
one family credit card that already has 
a balance of $168,000. Future purchases 
on that credit card, the promises that 
we made to the wife and the kids over 
the years, if they were to be put on 
that credit card now, $1 million. But wait a minute. Remember I said borrowing has gone down. We™re spend-
ing a little less. We have this drastic, 
incoherent, ham-fistedŠwhatever the 
adjectives we™re hearing latelyŠse-
quester that simply cut 2 percent out 
of Federal spending. Gee, cutting 2 per-
cent out of Federal spending, can you 
imagine what the other 98 percent of 
government does if all this stuff is sup-
posed to happen on just 2 percent? Any-
way, we save some money. In this ex-
ample, it would come out to $310. Now I will give the microphone, I will yield to any gentleman or gentle-
woman, Member of the House, here to-
night that wants to get up here and de-
fend this and defend these numbers. I 
didn™t think so. That™s all right, Mr. Speaker. I will note for the record that there are very 
few Members here. My next chart, this is what your Fed-eral Government spends its money on. 
Now, I took the liberty of taking two 
pieces of the pie and pulling them out. 
The reason I did that was because I 
want everyone to understand that 
when we vote for budgets, the line 
items we vote on really only represent 
those two pieces of the Federal spend-
ing pie. So our votes every year when 
we pass a budget only concern spend-
ing, quite honestly, on those two 
pieces. That™s non-defense discre-
tionary and defense discretionary. 
That™s why we call it discretionary, be-
cause we actually have discretion on 
dialing up defense or dialing it down, 
or some of the non-defense programs, 
like the 167 agencies or so that are 
under the discretionary budget. That 
would be the Department of Energy, 
Department of Education, and all of 
the ones in between. But if you look at this, Mr. Speaker, most of the pie is mandatory spending, 
meaning it doesn™t really come through 
the normal budget process because it 
can™t, because these were promises that 
were made in the underlying law. They 
cannot be changed unless you change the underlying law. I can™t, as Rep-resentative ROKITA, decide how much Americans who qualify for Social Secu-
rity will get in their Social Security 
check. The law sets that out. I don™t 
get to decide in a budget document 
what services you get under Medicare. 
That™s set in the underlying law. Med-
icaid, the same way. Of course, interest is a contractual agreement. We agree to pay interest to 
our bondholders. That can™t be 
changed. And then a smorgasbord of 
other mandatory spending rounds out 
what really is over two-thirds of our 
spending. So two-thirds of your Federal 
spending is on autopilot. It™s not ad-
justed year to year. It™s not as simple 
as just cutting or lowering budget fig-
ures. If we™re going to get out of debt, 
in order to lower this debt, we have to 
reform the underlying causes of our 
debt, and that™s our social entitlement 
programs. Now, about this time, many Members are about to get up and claim 30 min-
utes in response on behalf of their con-
stituents who say, Wait, I paid into 
those social entitlement programs. 
That™s not the government™s money; 
that™s my money. Week after week, out 
of my paycheck, money went into 
Medicare and money went into the So-
cial Security account, for example. I 
paid in; therefore, I get out. I want to acknowledge here on the floor of the House of Representatives 
that that is true. You have paid in. We 
have paid in. We continue to pay in. 
But it™s not the whole truth, as this 
chart indicates. You see on average, if 
you made $71,000 a year, you and your 
spouse through your working lives, you 
will have paid inŠand this is an exam-
ple for MedicareŠabout 35 percent of 
what you™re getting; 35 percent of what 
you™re getting. And that 65 percent dif-
ference, quite honestly, is paid for by 
the children of tomorrow, almost all of 
it. Again, they don™t have any voice in 
the matter because they don™t exist 
yet. So the moral question that we have as a country is: How much more does a 
future generation have to pay so we 
can have more on our plate now? And 
when you have budgets that do not bal-
ance, you are happy to say, when you 
vote for budgets that don™t balance, 
you are happy to say that we™re letting 
them pay the load. And that™s dif-
ferent. That™s the first time, this is the 
first time in American history as I 
know it, that we have basically said, 
We don™t care. We don™t care that our 
future generations, that the next gen-
eration, will be worse off than us at our 
very expense. But that™s exactly what 
we are doing when we don™t pass bal-
anced budgets. Like I mentioned earlier about the $100 trillion example, it™s not just the 
current debt load that we carry; it™s 
what™s coming. And that™s what is de-
picted by the red line here that you no-
tice is going nearly vertical. VerDate Mar 15 2010 02:26 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00044Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.087H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2295 April 24, 2013 b1820 It™s on a trajectory that we may not be able to arrest, that we might not be 
able to bend back down again if we 
don™t get ahold of it now. This is what happens when 10,000 peo-ple a day retire into programs that go 
unreformed. And that™s a problem. 
That™s a big problem. And that™s why it™s so important to get ahold of this 
problem now, to make these reforms 
now, before we turn into Greece. And 
in our case, when that happens, it will 
be a lot worse, not just for us but for 
the entire world. These figures do not lie. By the way, most of these figures that I present to-
night don™t come from TODDROKITA™s office. They come from the Budget 
Committee. The good Democratic 
members of the Budget Committee 
don™t disagree with the numbers. I 
imagine there™s disagreement, and we 
have seen disagreement certainly on 
the committee about how to solve the 
problems that the data present. I am 
increasingly shocked and awed to hear 
Members on the other side say that 
there really isn™t a problem with the 
data, with the issue that the data 
present, but nonetheless the data is the 
data and the data does not lie. There have been offered some false solutions, I would say, to our problem 
of this debt. I would quickly like to 
dispel some of them, and I™d like a 
point of order asking the Speaker how 
many more minutes I have. The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-tleman has 8 minutes remaining. Mr. ROKITA. Thank you, Mr. Speak-er. The first false solution: We need more tax revenue; we™re not taxing 
ourselves enough, and only if we tax 
more, especially from the, quote-un-
quote, richŠthose who haven™t paid 
their fair share, quote-unquoteŠwe™d 
solve this debt problem. Let me address that for a minute. This is one of the slides that doesn™t 
come from the Budget Committee; it 
comes from the IRS. I have no reason 
to dispute it. I saw it in The Wall 
Street Journal a couple of years ago. 
The bars represent where the money in 
this country is, the taxable revenue, 
where people™s property is, and it™s di-
vided along income groups. If you look 
at the far right of this chart, you™ll see 
that the furthest right bars represent 
Americans who have taxable revenue of 
anywhere from $1 million to $10 mil-
lion. And the largest, the highest bars, 
where the middle is, represent Ameri-
cans who have taxable revenue of any-
where from $75,000 to $500,000 a year. 
The point of this slide is, you can take 
all the millionaires™ money if you 
wanted, really make them pay their 
fair share, take a hundred percent of 
what they earn, and you™ll have to as-
sume two things: that they would con-
tinue producing, which of course they 
wouldn™t, and you™d have to assume 
that they would continue living in the 
country, which I assume they wouldn™t. 
Look at the mass exodus going on in France now with a 75 percent marginal tax rate. But let™s assume for the sake of dis-cussion that you take a hundred per-
cent of what they earn. You™re not 
going to get enough revenue to pay off 
the debt. There are not enough Oprah 
WinfreysŠor when I™m in Lafayette I 
like to say Purdue football coachesŠto 
pay off this debt. If people are saying, 
like our President, that more revenue 
is needed to pay off the debt, they™re 
coming for the middle class. They™re 
coming for where the property is, 
where the money is, and that™s in peo-
ple who make anywhere from $50,000, 
$75,000, to $500,000. The next slide reflects another false solution: let™s just get rid of all that 
foreign aid. And I™m the first to say 
we™ve really got to examine who we 
give foreign aid to. I would say this, 
also: we don™t give foreign aid nec-
essarily to other countries so that they 
can thank us. We do it because there™s 
a strategic reason to do it, like our na-
tional security, but let™s assume we cut 
out all foreign aid. You™re only ad-
dressing about 2 percent of our Federal 
spending. This is not something that 
you can solve the debt problem with. Some say let™s cut out defense. I will also be the first to say, there is tre-
mendous waste, fraud and abuse in the 
military, so much that they can™t even 
be audited, not because there™s a stat-
ute preventing it; they are so big and 
so sloppy and so leaderless in this fash-
ion that they cannot get themselves to 
an audit table, and that is wrong. We 
should be maximizing every dollar we 
can to our warfighters who protect us, 
and we™re not doing that now. But, Mr. Speaker, having said that, defenseŠif we had no defense, if we had 
no militaryŠwould only be a 20 percent 
cut in our overall spending. Not enough 
to balance the budget. Not enough to 
solve this debt problem. We have several solutions to this, starting with the House Republican 
budget: reform Medicare, reform Med-icaid, reform Social Security, not cut 
people who are in or on these programs 
right now because we don™t have to. We 
have the luxury if we act now to re-
form these programs now, Mr. Speaker. 
You can go to rokita.house.gov to 
learn more. Only if you were born in 
1958 or after are we offering a restruc-
tured program so that it™s around for 
you, so that it™s around for all Ameri-
cans, future generations, and so that 
we don™t have to hurt the people that 
are on them now. I™m out of time, Mr. Speaker, to go through all those right now. I™d like to 
come back at some point and pick up 
that discussion. With that, I yield back the balance of my time. f LEAVE OF ABSENCE By unanimous consent, leave of ab-sence was granted to: Mr. COOK(at the request of Mr. CAN-TOR) for today on account of a death in the family. Mr. FLORES(at the request of Mr. CANTOR) for today and the balance of the week on account of attending me-
morial services and funerals for the 
victims of the fertilizer plant explosion 
in West, Texas on April 17. f ADJOURNMENT Mr. ROKITA. Mr. Speaker, I move that the House do now adjourn. The motion was agreed to; accord-ingly (at 6 o™clock and 26 minutes 
p.m.), under its previous order, the 
House adjourned until tomorrow, 
Thursday, April 25, 2013, at 10 a.m. for 
morning-hour debate. f EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS, ETC. Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive communications were taken from the 
Speaker™s table and referred as follows: 1222. A letter from the Management Ana-lyst, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting the Department™s final ruleŠFees for 
Official Inspection and Official Weighing 
Services Under the United States Grain 
Standards Act (USGSA) (RIN: 0580ŒAB13) re-
ceived April 16, 2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Agri-
culture. 1223. A letter from the Director, Regu-latory Review Group, Department of Agri-
culture, transmitting the Department™s final 
ruleŠNoninsured Crop Disaster Assistance 
Program (RIN: 0560ŒAI06) received April 15, 
2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Agriculture. 1224. A letter from the Acting Principal Deputy, Department of Defense, transmit-
ting a letter on the approved retirement of 
Lieutenant General Willian K. Rew, United 
States Air Force, and his advancement on 
the retired list in the grade of lieutenant 
general; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices. 1225. A letter from the Acting Principal Deputy, Department of Defense, transmit-
ting National Guard and Reserve Equipment 
Report (NGRER) for Fiscal Year 2014; to the 
Committee on Armed Services. 1226. A letter from the Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Department of Defense, trans-
mitting the Department™s annual report list-
ing all repairs and maintenance performed 
on any covered Navy vessel in any shipyard 
outside the United States or Guam during 
the preceding fiscal year; to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 1227. A letter from the Chairman and Presi-dent, Export-Import Bank, transmitting a 
report on transactions involving U.S. exports 
to Hong Kong pursuant to Section 2(b)(3) of 
the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, as 
amended; to the Committee on Financial 
Services. 1228. A letter from the Chairman and Presi-dent, Export-Import Bank, transmitting a 
report on transactions involving U.S. exports 
to Mongolia pursuant to Section 2(b)(3) of 
the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, as 
amended; to the Committee on Financial 
Services. 1229. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-fice of Management and Budget, transmit-
ting a report on discretionary appropriations 
legislation within seven calendar days of en-
actment; to the Committee on the Budget. 1230. A letter from the Acting General Counsel, Federal Energy Regulatory Com-
mission, transmitting the Commission™s 
final ruleŠAnnual Charge Filing Procedures VerDate Mar 15 2010 02:26 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00045Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\K24AP7.089H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2296 April 24, 2013 for Natural Gas Pipelines [Docket No.: RM12Œ14Œ000; Order No. 776] received April 12, 
2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce. 1231. A letter from the Director, Office of Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission, transmitting the Commission™s 
final ruleŠEnforcement Guidance Memo-
randum 13Œ002, Enforcement Discretion Not 
to Cite Violations Involving the Use of the 
New American Society of Mechanical Engi-
neers (ASME) Certification Marks Instead of 
ASME Code Symbol Stamps, While Rule-
making Chances Are Being Developed re-
ceived April 16, 2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce. 1232. A letter from the Director, Defense Security Cooperation Agency, transmitting 
a notice of proposed lease with the Govern-
ment of the United Kingdom (Transmittal 
No. 01Œ13) pursuant to Section 62(a) of the 
Arms Export Control Act; to the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs. 1233. A letter from the Acting Assistant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting notice that the Dep-
uty Secretary has issued the required deter-
mination to waive certain restrictions on the 
maintenance of a Palestine Liberation Orga-
nization (PLO) Office; to the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs. 1234. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-ment of the Treasury, transmitting as re-
quired by section 401(c) of the National 
Emergencies Act, 50 U.S.C. 1641(c), and sec-
tion 204(c) of the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Act, 50 U.S.C. 1703(c), a 
six-month periodic report on the national 
emergency with respect to Syria that was 
declared in Executive Order 13338 of May 11, 
2004; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. 1235. A letter from the Executive Director, Access Board, transmitting the Board™s an-
nual report for FY 2012 prepared in accord-
ance with Section 203(a) of the Notification 
and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination 
and Retaliation Act of 2002 (No FEAR Act), 
Public Law 107Œ174; to the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform. 1236. A letter from the Chief Executive Of-ficer, Corporation for National and Commu-
nity Service, transmitting FY 2014 Congres-
sional Budget Justification/FY 2012 Annual 
Performance Report; to the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform. 1237. A letter from the Director, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency 
for the District of Columbia, transmitting 
the Agency™s annual report for FY 2012 pre-
pared in accordance with Section 203 of the 
Notification and Federal Employee Anti-
discrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 
(No FEAR Act), Public Law 107Œ174; to the 
Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform. 1238. A letter from the Chairman, Federal Maritime Commission, transmitting the 
Commission™s report for fiscal year 2012 on 
the amount of acquisitions from entities 
that manufacture articles, materials, or sup-
plies outside of the United States; to the 
Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform. 1239. A letter from the Director, Office of Self-Governance, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting a copy of the Amendment No. 4 
to the 2010Œ2014 Multi-Year Funding Agree-
ment entered into between the Department 
of Interior and the Cooper River Native As-
sociation; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources. 1240. A letter from the General Council, Executive Office for Immigration Review, 
Department of Justice, transmitting the De-
partment™s final ruleŠRegistry for Attor-
neys and Representatives [Docket No.: EOIR 
138F; A.G. Order No.: 3377Œ2013] (RIN: 1125Œ AA39) received April 12, 2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on the 
Judiciary. 1241. A letter from the Deputy Assistant Administrator, Office of Diversion Control, 
Department of Justice, transmitting the De-
partment™s final ruleŠSchedules of Con-
trolled Substances: Placement of Methylone 
Into Schedule I [Docket No.: DEAŒ357] re-
ceived April 15, 2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on the Judici-
ary. 1242. A letter from the Attorney General, Department of Justice, transmitting notifi-
cation that the Department has determined 
not to file a petition for a writ of certiorari 
in R.J. Reynolds V. Food & Drug Adminis-
tration, No. 11Œ5332 (D.C. Cir.); to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary. 1243. A letter from the General Counsel, Executive Office for Immigration Review, 
Department of Justice, transmitting the De-
partment™s final ruleŠForwarding of Asylum 
Applications to the Department of State 
[EOIR Docket No.: 173; AG Order No. 3375Œ 
2013] (RIN: 1125ŒAA65) received April 12, 2013, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary. 1244. A letter from the Secretary, Judicial Conference of the United States, transmit-
ting the Conference™s Article III and bank-
ruptcy judgeships recommendations and cor-
responding draft legislation for the 113th 
Congress; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary. 1245. A letter from the Secretary, Judicial Conference of the United States, transmit-
ting proposed legislation ‚‚Criminal Judicial 
Procedure, Administration, and Technical 
Amendments Act of 2013™™; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 1246. A letter from the Attorney Advisor, Department of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting the Department™s final ruleŠDraw-
bridge Operation Regulation; Green River, 
Small-house, KY and Black River, 
Jonesboro, LA [Docket No.: USCGŒ2013Œ0041] 
(RIN: 1625ŒAA09) received April 18, 2013, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture. 1247. A letter from the Attorney Advisor, Department of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting the Department™s final ruleŠSpecial 
Local Regulations; Patriot Challenge Kayak 
Race, Ashley River; Charleston, SC [Docket 
No.: USCGŒ2013Œ0030] (RIN: 1625ŒAA08) re-
ceived April 18, 2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. 1248. A letter from the Attorney Advisor, Department of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting the Department™s final ruleŠSafety 
Zone; Seafair Blue Angels Air Show Perform-
ance, Seattle, WA [Docket Number: USCGŒ 
2012Œ0903] (RIN: 1625ŒAA00) received April 18, 
2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure. 1249. A letter from the Attorney Advisor, Department of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting the Department™s final ruleŠSafety 
Zone; BWRC Spring Classic, Parker, AZ 
[Docket No.: USCGŒ2013Œ0074] (RIN: 1625Œ 
AA00) received April 18, 2013, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 1250. A letter from the Attorney Advisor, Department of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting the Department™s final ruleŠDraw-
bridge Operation Regulation; Sabine River, 
near Ruliff, LA [Docket No.: USCGŒ2012Œ1065] 
(RIN: 1625ŒAA09) received April 18, 2013, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture. 1251. A letter from the Attorney Advisor, Department of Homeland Security, transmit-ting the Department™s final ruleŠSafety Zone; M/V XIANG YUN KOU and MODU 
NOBLE DISCOVERER; Resurrection Bay, 
Seward, AK [Docket No.: USCGŒ2013Œ0128] 
(RIN: 1625ŒAA00) received April 18, 2013, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture. 1252. A letter from the Attorney Advisor, Department of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting the Department™s final ruleŠSafety 
Zone; St. Patrick™s Day Fireworks; 
Manitowoc River, Manitowoc, WI [Docket 
No.: USCGŒ2013Œ0116] (RIN: 1625ŒAA00) re-
ceived April 18, 2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. 1253. A letter from the Attorney Advisor, Department of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting the Department™s final ruleŠSafety 
Zones; Annual events requiring safety zones 
in the Captain of the Port Lake Michigan 
zone [Docket No.: USCGŒ2013Œ0020] (RIN: 
1625ŒAA00) received April 18, 2013, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 1254. A letter from the Attorney Advisor, Department of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting the Department™s final ruleŠGreat 
Lakes Pilotage Rates-2013 Annual Review 
and Adjustment [Docket No.: USCGŒ2012Œ 
0409] (RIN: 1625ŒAB89) received April 18, 2013, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture. 1255. A letter from the Attorney Advisor, Department of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting the Department™s final ruleŠSpecial 
Local Regulations; Charleston Race Week, 
Charleston Harbor; Charleston, SC [Docket 
No.: USCGŒ2013Œ0081] (RIN: 1625ŒAA08) re-
ceived April 18, 2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. 1256. A letter from the Chief, Publications and Regulations, Internal Revenue Service, 
transmitting the Service™s final ruleŠBegin-
ning of Construction for Purposes of the Re-
newable Electricity Production Tax Credit 
and Energy Investment Tax Credit [Notice: 
2013Œ29] received April 18, 2013, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Ways and Means. 1257. A letter from the Assistant Director, Legal Processing Division, Internal Revenue 
Service, transmitting the Service™s final 
ruleŠBiodiesel and Alternative Fuels; 
Claims for 2012; Excise Tax [Notice 2013Œ26] 
received April 10, 2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 1258. A letter from the Chief, Publications and Regulations, Internal Revenue Service, 
transmitting the Service™s final ruleŠSec-
tion 911(d)(4)Š2012 Update received April 8, 
2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Ways and Means. 1259. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting Medicare-Medicaid Coordination Of-fice Fiscal Year 2012 Report to Congress; 
jointly to the Committees on Energy and 
Commerce and Ways and Means. 1260. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting ‚‚Finalizing Medicare Rules under 
Section 902 of the Medicare Prescription 
Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act 
2003 (MMA) for Calendar Year (CY) 2012™™, 
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1395hh(a) Public Law 
108Œ173, section 902(a)(1); jointly to the Com-
mittees on Ways and Means and Energy and 
Commerce. 1261. A letter from the Inspector General, Railroad Retirement Board, transmitting fis-
cal year 2014 Congressional Justification of 
Budget for the Office of the Inspector Gen-
eral; jointly to the Committees on Appro-
priations, Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture, and Ways and Means. VerDate Mar 15 2010 02:26 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00046Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\L24AP7.000H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2297 April 24, 2013 REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of committees were delivered to the Clerk 
for printing and reference to the proper 
calendar, as follows: Mr. BISHOP of Utah: Committee on Rules. House Resolution 178. Resolution providing 
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 527) to 
amend the Helium Act to complete the pri-
vatization of the Federal helium reserve in a 
competitive market fashion that ensures sta-
bility in the helium markets while pro-
tecting the interests of American taxpayers, 
and for other purposes (Rept. 113Œ47). Re-
ferred to the House Calendar. f PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the following 
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows: By Mr. MCGOVERN (for himself, Mr. WOLF, Mr. CAPUANO, Mr. MCCAUL, Ms. LEEof California, Mr. SCHOCK, Ms. BASS, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. VANHOL-LEN, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. EDWARDS, Mr. CLAY, Ms. MOORE, Mrs. CAROLYNB. MALONEYof New York, Mr. CONYERS, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. CAR-SONof Indiana, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. JOHNSONof Georgia, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. MICHAUD, Mr. RUSH, Mr. MORAN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MCINTYRE, Mr. POLIS, and Mr. WELCH): H.R. 1692. A bill to require the development of a comprehensive strategy to end serious 
human rights violations in Sudan, to create 
incentives for governments and persons to 
end support of and assistance to the Govern-
ment of Sudan, to reinvigorate genuinely 
comprehensive peace efforts in Sudan, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs, and in addition to the Commit-
tees on Financial Services, Oversight and 
Government Reform, and the Judiciary, for a 
period to be subsequently determined by the 
Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned. By Mr. GRIFFIN of Arkansas (for him-self, Mr. CRAWFORD, and Mr. WOMACK): H.R. 1693. A bill to provide an exemption for community banks from the application of 
Basel III capital standards; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services. By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. PAULSEN, and Mr. DUFFY): H.R. 1694. A bill to allow the Secretary of the Treasury to rely on State examinations 
for certain financial institutions, and for 
other purposes; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services. By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself, Mr. MASSIE, Mr. CONYERS, Ms. BASS, Mr. COHEN, Mr. RICHMOND, and Mr. JOHNSONof Georgia): H.R. 1695. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to prevent unjust and irrational 
criminal punishments; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary. By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr. WELCH, Mr. THOMPSONof California, Mr. GIBSON, Mr. GARDNER, and Mr. BLUMENAUER): H.R. 1696. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-enue Code of 1986 to extend the publicly trad-
ed partnership ownership structure to energy 
power generation projects and transpor-
tation fuels, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Ways and Means. By Mr. LUETKEMEYER (for himself and Mrs. KIRKPATRICK): H.R. 1697. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-enue Code of 1986 to allow refunds of Federal 
motor fuel excise taxes on fuels used in mo-
bile mammography vehicles; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means. By Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas (for himself and Mr. BARTON): H.R. 1698. A bill to amend titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to provide for 
12-month continuous enrollment of individ-
uals under the Medicaid program and Chil-
dren™s Health Insurance Program, and for 
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself, Mr. POLIS, Ms. GABBARD, Ms. PINGREEof Maine, Mr. WELCH, Mr. YOUNGof Alaska, Mr. GEORGEMILLERof Cali-fornia, Ms. SLAUGHTER, Mrs. CHRISTENSEN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. MORAN, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. MCDERMOTT, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. BLU-MENAUER, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. LEEof California, Ms. SPEIER, Mrs. NAPOLI-TANO, Mr. NADLER, Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms. NORTON, and Ms. KUSTER): H.R. 1699. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require 
that genetically engineered food and foods 
that contains genetically engineered ingredi-
ents be labeled accordingly; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce. By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mrs. LOWEY, and Mr. PAYNE): H.R. 1700. A bill to require the President to issue guidance on Federal response to a 
large-scale nuclear disaster; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture. By Mr. POE of Texas: H.R. 1701. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of Health and Human Services replacing ICD- 
9 with ICD-10 in implementing the HIPAA 
code set standards; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. By Mr. BARBER (for himself and Mr. THORNBERRY): H.R. 1702. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to make permanent the author-
ity of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
transport individuals to and from facilities 
of the Department of Veterans Affairs in 
connection with rehabilitation, counseling, 
examination, treatment, and care; to the 
Committee on Veterans™ Affairs. By Mr. BOUSTANY (for himself, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. GINGREYof Georgia, and Mr. TIBERI): H.R. 1703. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security Act to permit States to re-
duce the amount of home equity that is ex-
empted for purposes of determining eligi-
bility for long-term care assistance under 
Medicaid and to eliminate the State Med-
icaid maintenance of effort requirement es-
tablished under Public Law 111-148 with re-
spect to eligibility standards to obtain Med-
icaid assistance for long-term care services; 
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce. By Mr. BRALEY of Iowa: H.R. 1704. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-enue Code of 1986 to increase the deduction 
for start-up expenditures for business for 2013 
and 2014; to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. By Mr. BURGESS (for himself and Mr. COTTON): H.R. 1705. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to provide for certain forms of 
physical therapy under the TRICARE pro-
gram; to the Committee on Armed Services. By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Ms. WATERS, Mr. GEORGEMILLERof Cali-fornia, Mr. CONYERS, Mr. WAXMAN, Mr. TIERNEY, Ms. LOFGREN, and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY): H.R. 1706. A bill to establish an Inde-pendent Monitor to maintain oversight of 
the settlement by mortgage servicing com-
panies that were subject to enforcement ac-
tions for unsafe and unsound practices re-
lated to residential mortgage loan servicing 
and foreclosure processing, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
Services. By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. ENYART, Mr. KINZINGERof Illinois, Mr. SCHOCK, Mr. DANNYK. DAVISof Illi-nois, Mr. FOSTER, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. GUTIERREZ, Mr. HULTGREN, Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. SCHA-KOWSKY, Mr. RUSH, Mr. LIPINSKI, Ms. KELLYof Illinois, Ms. DUCKWORTH, and Mr. ROSKAM): H.R. 1707. A bill to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 
302 East Green Street in Champaign, Illinois, 
as the ‚‚James R. Burgess Jr. Post Office 
Building™™; to the Committee on Oversight 
and Government Reform. By Ms. JENKINS (for herself, Mr. CROWLEY, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. ROSKAM, Mr. FRANKSof Arizona, Mr. MULVANEY, Mr. SMITHof Nebraska, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. POLIS, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. WESTMORELAND, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. TURNER, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. MORAN, Ms. BROWNof Florida, Mr. HUIZENGAof Michigan, Mr. MATHE-SON, Mr. WALBERG, Mr. SCHRADER, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. SCHOCK, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. PAUL-SEN, Mr. AUSTINSCOTTof Georgia, Mr. GRIFFINof Arkansas, and Mr. LONG): H.R. 1708. A bill to suspend temporarily the duty on certain footwear, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means. By Mr. LEWIS: H.R. 1709. A bill to authorize the Attorney General to award grants to eligible entities 
to prevent or alleviate community violence 
by providing education, mentoring, and 
counseling services to children, adolescents, 
teachers, families, and community leaders 
on the principles and practice of non-
violence; to the Committee on Education and 
the Workforce. By Mr. LEWIS: H.R. 1710. A bill to authorize the Gandhi- King Scholarly Exchange Initiative focusing 
on peace and nonviolence in global conflict 
resolution, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Foreign Affairs. By Mr. BEN RAY LUJA´N of New Mex-ico: H.R. 1711. A bill to make funds available to the Department of Energy National Labora-
tories for the Federal share of cooperative 
research and development agreements that 
support maturing Laboratory technology 
and transferring it to the private sector, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Science, Space, and Technology. By Mr. MCNERNEY (for himself, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. COSTA, Mr. HONDA, and Mr. JOHNSONof Georgia): H.R. 1712. A bill to prevent foreclosure of home mortgages and provide for the afford-
able refinancing of mortgages held by Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac; to the Committee on 
Financial Services. By Mr. MURPHY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. HECKof Nevada, Mr. MEEHAN, and Mr. GERLACH): H.R. 1713. A bill to establish a procedure to safeguard the surpluses of the Social Secu-
rity and Medicare hospital insurance trust 
funds; to the Committee on Rules, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on the Budget, for a VerDate Mar 15 2010 03:24 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00047Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\A24AP7.004H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2298 April 24, 2013 period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned. By Mr. PETERS of California (for him-self, Ms. WILSONof Florida, Mr. CA´RDENAS, Ms. LINDAT. SA´NCHEZof California, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. MENG, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. RANGEL, Mrs. DAVISof California, Mr. CONYERS, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, and Ms. SINEMA): H.R. 1714. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Hous-
ing and Urban Development to establish a 
grant pilot program to provide housing to el-
derly homeless veterans; to the Committee 
on Financial Services, and in addition to the 
Committee on Veterans™ Affairs, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. By Mr. PETERS of Michigan (for him-self, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. CARNEY, and Mr. POLIS): H.R. 1715. A bill to establish procedures for the expedited consideration by Congress of 
the recommendations set forth in the Cuts, 
Consolidations, and Savings report prepared 
by the Office of Management and Budget; to 
the Committee on the Budget, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Rules, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. By Mr. PETRI (for himself and Mr. POLIS): H.R. 1716. A bill to simplify and improve the Federal student loan program through 
income-contingent repayment to provide 
stronger protections for borrowers, encour-
age responsible borrowing, and save money 
for taxpayers; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and the Workforce, and in addition to 
the Committee on Ways and Means, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the 
Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned. By Mr. PRICE of Georgia (for himself, Mr. LARSONof Connecticut, Mr. THOMPSONof Pennsylvania, Mr. BRALEYof Iowa, Mr. ROEof Ten-nessee, Mr. RYANof Ohio, Mr. TIBERI, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. JOYCE, Mr. MCKIN-LEY, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. BARLETTA, Mr. GRIMM, Mr. AUSTINSCOTTof Georgia, Mr. HARPER, Mr. MARINO, Mr. CREN-SHAW, Mr. KINGof New York, Mr. JOHNSONof Ohio, Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. POSEY, Mr. LANKFORD, and Mr. NUNNELEE): H.R. 1717. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to establish a market 
pricing program for durable medical equip-
ment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies 
(DMEPOS) under part B of the Medicare pro-
gram; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committees on 
Ways and Means, and Appropriations, for a 
period to be subsequently determined by the 
Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned. By Ms. SPEIER: H.R. 1718. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, and title 39, United States Code, 
to provide the United States Postal Service 
the authority to mail wine and beer, and for 
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Government Reform, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on the Judiciary, for 
a period to be subsequently determined by 
the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned. By Mr. STIVERS (for himself, Mr. RYANof Ohio, and Mr. TIBERI): H.R. 1719. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to save the American taxpayers 
money by immediately altering the metallic 
composition of the one-cent, five-cent, dime, 
and quarter dollar coins, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices. By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Mr. GIB-SON, Ms. PINGREEof Maine, and Mr. DESJARLAIS): H.R. 1720. A bill to conduct a pilot program in support of efforts to increase the amount 
of purchases of local fresh fruits and vegeta-
bles for schools and service institutions by 
giving certain States the option of receiving 
a grant from the Secretary of Agriculture for 
that purpose instead of obtaining commod-
ities under Department of Agriculture pro-
grams; to the Committee on Education and 
the Workforce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in 
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. By Mr. CONYERS: H. Res. 179. A resolution recognizing ‚‚International Jazz Day™™; to the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs. f CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY STATEMENT Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers 
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or 
joint resolution. By Mr. MCGOVERN: H.R. 1692. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article I, Section 8, Clause 18Šand Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 By Mr. GRIFFIN of Arkansas: H.R. 1693. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article 1, Section 8. By Mr. ELLISON: H.R. 1694. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article I, Section 8, Clauses 1 and 3. By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia: H.R. 1695. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Con-stitution. By Mr. POE of Texas: H.R. 1696. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 By Mr. LUETKEMEYER: H.R. 1697. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: The Constitutional authority on which this bill rests is the power of Congress to lay 
and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and ex-
cises to pay the debts and provide for the 
common Defense and general welfare of the 
United States, as enumerated in Article I, 
Section 8, Clause 1. Thus, Congress has the 
authority not only to increase taxes, but 
also, to reduce taxes to promote the general 
welfare of the United States of America and 
her citizens. Additionally, Congress has the 
Constitutional authority to regulate com-
merce among the States and with Indian Tribes, as enumerated in Article I, Section 8, Clause 3. By Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas: H.R. 1698. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article 1, section 8, clause 1 
Article 1, section 8, clause 3 
Article 1, section 8, clause 18 By Mr. DEFAZIO: H.R. 1699. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article I of the Constitution. By Mr. ENGEL: H.R. 1700. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article I, Section 1; 
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1; 
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3; and 
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18. By Mr. POE of Texas: H.R. 1701. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Clause 18 of section 8 of Article I of the Constitution which states that Congress has 
the power ‚‚to make all Laws which shall be 
necessary and proper for carrying into Exe-
cution the foregoing Powers, and all other 
Powers vested by this Constitution in the 
Government of the United States, or in any 
Department or Officer thereof.™™ By Mr. BARBER: H.R. 1702. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article I, Section 8, Clause 12 
To raise and support Armies, but no Appro-priation of Money to that Use shall be for a 
longer Term than two Years. Article I, Section 8, Clause 13 
To provide and maintain a Navy. Article I, Section 8, Clause 14 
To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces. Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 
To make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for the carrying into execution 
the foregoing powers, and all other powers 
vested by this Constitution in the govern-
ment of the United States, or in any depart-
ment or officer thereof. By Mr. BOUSTANY: H.R. 1703. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article 1, Section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 By Mr. BRALEY of Iowa: H.R. 1704. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitution. By Mr. BURGESS: H.R. 1705. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: The attached bill is constitutional under Article I, Section 8, Clause 3: ‚‚To regulate 
Commerce with foreign Nations, and among 
the several States, and with the Indian 
Tribes™™ as well as Article 1, Section 8, Clause 
1: ‚‚The Congress shall have Power To lay 
and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Ex-
cises, to pay the Debts and provide for the 
common Defence and general Welfare of the 
United States; but all Duties, Imposts and 
Excises shall be uniform throughout the 
United States.™™ By Mr. CUMMINGS: H.R. 1706. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 (provide for the common Defence and general Welfare of 
the United States) VerDate Mar 15 2010 02:26 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00048Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\L24AP7.100H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2299 April 24, 2013 Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 (To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among 
the several States, and with the Indian 
Tribes) By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois: H.R. 1707. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: The constitutional authority on which this bill rests is the power of Congress to estab-
lish Post Offices and post roads, as enumer-
ated in Article I, Section 8, Clause 7 of the 
United States Constitution. By Ms. JENKINS: H.R. 1708. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Pursuant to the power granted to Congress under Article I, Section 8, Clauses 1 and 3 of 
the United States Constitution. Clause 1: The Congress shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts 
and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for 
the common Defence and general Welfare of 
the United States; but all Duties, Imposts 
and Excises shall be uniform throughout the 
United States; And 
Clause 3: To regulate Commerce with for-eign Nations, and among the several States, 
and with the Indian Tribes; By Mr. LEWIS: H.R. 1709. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: This bill is enacted pursuant to the power granted to Congress under Article I of the 
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and 
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the 
United States. By Mr. LEWIS: H.R. 1710. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: This bill is enacted pursuant to the power granted to Congress under Article I of the 
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and 
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the 
United States. By Mr. BEN RAY LUJA´N of New Mex-ico: H.R. 1711. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article 1, Section 8. By Mr. MCNERNEY: H.R. 1712. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Section 8 of Article 1 of the U.S. Constitu-tion By Mr. MURPHY of Pennsylvania: H.R. 1713. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article I, Section 9, Clause 7. No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in 
Consequence of Appropriations made by Law; 
and a regular Statement and Account of the 
Receipts and Expenditures of all public 
Money shall be published from time to time. By Mr. PETERS of California: H.R. 1714. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the U.S. Constitution By Mr. PETERS of Michigan: H.R. 1715. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article I, Section 5, Clause 2 
Article I, Section 9, Clause 7 
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 By Mr. PETRI: H.R. 1716. Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-stitution. By Mr. PRICE of Georgia: H.R. 1717. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Current law has created a health care pro-gram called Medicare that is operated by the 
federal government. This bill would improve 
the efficiency and fairness of the operation 
of parts of that program, especially the pur-
chase of goods and services, while affecting 
interstate commerce, which Congress has the 
power to regulate under Article I, Section 8, 
Clause 3. By Ms. SPEIER: H.R. 1718. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: This bill is enacted pursuant to the power granted to Congress under Article 1, Section 
8 of the United States Constitution. By Mr. STIVERS: H.R. 1719. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article 1, Section 8Š‚‚To coin Money, regu-late the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin, 
and fix the Standard of Weights and Meas-
ures™™ By Mr. WELCH: H.R. 1720. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis-lation pursuant to the following: Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-gress shall have Power To ... make all 

Laws which shall be necessary and proper for 
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United 
States, or in any Department or Officer 
thereof ... 
f ADDITIONAL SPONSORS TO PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors were added to public bills and resolu-
tions as follows: H.R. 38: Mr. BENISHEKand Mr. JOHNSONof Ohio. H.R. 96: Mr. YARMUTH. H.R. 149: Mr. BARLETTA. H.R. 184: Mr. HONDA. H.R. 207: Mr. POMPEO. H.R. 274: Ms. DEGETTEand Mrs. KIRK-PATRICK. H.R. 292: Ms. SLAUGHTER, Mr. HINOJOSA, and Mr. JOHNSONof Georgia. H.R. 324: Mr. VARGAS, Ms. SHEA-PORTER, Mr. CRAMER, and Mr. DAINES. H.R. 362: Mr. JOHNSONof Georgia. H.R. 363: Mr. JOHNSONof Georgia. H.R. 376: Ms. LORETTASANCHEZof Cali-fornia. H.R. 377: Mr. MCINTYRE. H.R. 411: Mr. WELCH. H.R. 419: Mr. FALEOMAVAEGAand Mr. KEATING. H.R. 474: Mr. HONDA. H.R. 498: Mr. MARCHANT, Mr. GRAYSON, Mr. PAYNE, and Mr. VISCLOSKY. H.R. 508: Mr. KINDand Mr. MULVANEY. H.R. 519: Ms. DELBENE, Mr. NEAL, Mr. ELLI-SON, Mr. CROWLEY, Mr. WALZ, Mr. CUMMINGS, and Ms. EDWARDS. H.R. 520: Mr. HORSFORD. H.R. 543: Mr. BARBER, Mr. HUFFMAN, and Mrs. NOEM. H.R. 578: Mr. LATTA. H.R. 580: Mr. YOUNGof Indiana and Mr. COFFMAN. H.R. 594: Ms. CLARKE. H.R. 596: Mr. COOPERand Mr. WITTMAN. H.R. 627: Mr. COBLE, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. MCHENRY, Mr. YOUNGof Indiana, Mr. NUNES, Mr. ROGERSof Michigan, Mr. NUGENT, Mr. BURGESS, Mr. SAMJOHNSONof Texas, Mrs. BROOKSof Indiana, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. BOU-STANY, Mr. BENRAYLUJA´Nof New Mexico, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. BARBER, and Mr. RUSH. H.R. 630: Mr. JOYCE, Ms. BASS, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, and Mr. HECKof Washington. H.R. 647: Ms. MOORE, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, and Mr. HULTGREN. H.R. 655: Mr. TIBERI. H.R. 657: Mr. STEWART. H.R. 661: Ms. JACKSONLEE. H.R. 664: Mr. GRIMMand Mrs. MCCARTHYof New York. H.R. 684: Mr. COOPERand Mr. SCOTTof Vir-ginia. H.R. 693: Mr. ROEof Tennessee. H.R. 705: Mr. ROONEY, Mr. GOHMERT, and Mr. MURPHYof Pennsylvania. H.R. 719: Mr. NOLAN. H.R. 721: Mr. KLINE. H.R. 755: Ms. ZOELOFGREN. H.R. 783: Ms. NORTON. H.R. 792: Mr. ROGERSof Michigan and Mr. DAINES. H.R. 807: Mr. LANKFORD, Mrs. WALORSKI, and Mr. NUNNELEE. H.R. 842: Mr. KIND. H.R. 850: Mr. BRADYof Texas, Ms. DELBENE, and Mr. SMITHof Washington. H.R. 911: Mr. SIMPSON. H.R. 916: Mr. PETRI. H.R. 929: Ms. WILSONof Florida. H.R. 938: Mr. GARRETTand Ms. FUDGE. H.R. 940: Mr. GOHMERT. H.R. 942: Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. CONYERS, Mr. MORAN, Mr. LATHAM, Mr. ENYART, Mr. TIBERI, Ms. SLAUGHTER, Ms. MOORE, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms. TITUS, Mr. JOHNSONof Geor-gia, Ms. WILSONof Florida, Mrs. MCMORRIS RODGERS, Mr. LANGEVIN, Ms. NORTON, Mr. NOLAN, Mr. MCKEON, Mr. BRALEYof Iowa, and Mr. RUNYAN. H.R. 961: Mr. LARSENof Washington, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. TITUS, Mr. KING of New York, Ms. LEEof California, and Mr. PERLMUTTER. H.R. 979: Mrs. BLACKBURN. H.R. 983: Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr. FARENTHOLD, and Mr. CONNOLLY. H.R. 984: Mr. SWALWELLof California. H.R. 988: Mr. MICHAUD. H.R. 1000: Ms. JACKSONLEE, Mr. GUTIER-REZ, Mr. CARSONof Indiana, and Mr. COHEN. H.R. 1010: Mr. DELANEY, Mr. ISRAEL, Mr. HOYER, and Mr. CARSONof Indiana. H.R. 1014: Mr. DENT. H.R. 1020: Mr. HANNA, Ms. JENKINS, and Mr. TIBERI. H.R. 1026: Mr. POMPEOand Mr. FARENTHOLD. H.R. 1093: Mr. BENISHEK. H.R. 1151: Mr. MULLINand Mr. DAINES. H.R. 1154: Mr. CUMMINGS. H.R. 1175: Mr. CUMMINGS. H.R. 1180: Mr. OWENS, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. LATHAM, Mr. HANNA, and Mr. TONKO. H.R. 1201: Mr. PETERSof California and Mr. CARSONof Indiana. H.R. 1213: Mr. GRIJALVA. H.R. 1215: Mr. HUFFMAN. H.R. 1245: Mr. VELA, Mr. ISRAEL, and Ms. WILSONof Florida. H.R. 1250: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK. H.R. 1290: Mr. WITTMAN. H.R. 1304: Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. OLSON, and Mr. FRANKSof Arizona. H.R. 1313: Mr. RODNEYDAVISof Illinois, Mr. FRANKSof Arizona, Mr. DESJARLAIS, and Mr. GOHMERT. H.R. 1318: Mrs. NAPOLITANOand Ms. DEGETTE. H.R. 1334: Mr. PAYNE. H.R. 1340: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr. COHEN. H.R. 1345: Mr. POEof Texas and Mr. MEAD-OWS. VerDate Mar 15 2010 02:26 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00049Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\A24AP7.013H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE CONGRESSIONAL RECORDŠHOUSE
H2300 April 24, 2013 H.R. 1346: Mr. CONYERS. H.R. 1417: Mrs. BROOKSof Indiana, Mr. FARENTHOLD, and Mr. KINZINGERof Illinois. H.R. 1418: Ms. FRANKELof Florida and Ms. CHU. H.R. 1421: Mr. PETERSof California and Mr. CICILLINE. H.R. 1428: Mr. LEVINand Mr. PAYNE. H.R. 1432: Mr. ROONEY, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. COFFMAN, Mr. DOGGETT, Mrs. CHRISTENSEN, and Mr. REED. H.R. 1500: Mr. CARSONof Indiana. H.R. 1507: Mr. WALZ, Mr. CARSONof Indi-ana, Mr. MICHAUD, Ms. PINGREEof Maine, Mr. GENEGREENof Texas, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. DAVIDSCOTTof Georgia, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. BISHOPof Georgia, Mr. WELCH, Mr. KEATING, and Mr. MCGOV-ERN. H.R. 1518: Mr. CAMPBELL, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. KINGof New York, Ms. SCHWARTZ, Mr. PAYNE, and Mrs. NOEM. H.R. 1523: Mr. BENISHEK, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and Ms. NORTON. H.R. 1528: Mr. ROGERSof Alabama, Mr. WELCH, and Mr. HUELSKAMP. H.R. 1578: Mr. ENGEL. H.R. 1579: Ms. LOFGREN. H.R. 1587: Mr. FARENTHOLDand Mr. JOHN-SONof Ohio. H.R. 1589: Mr. SCHRADER. H.R. 1590: Mr. ISRAEL. H.R. 1593: Ms. BROWNLEYof California, Ms. HANABUSA, Ms. EDDIEBERNICEJOHNSONof Texas, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. MCDERMOTT, Mr. MICHAUD, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PASTORof Arizona, Mr. RUSH, Ms. LINDAT. SA´NCHEZof California, Mr. SCOTTof Virginia, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. WAX-MAN, Mr. CA´RDENAS, Mrs. NEGRETEMCLEOD, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. KUSTER, Ms. MENG, and Mr. SWALWELLof California. H.R. 1595: Mr. KEATING, Ms. CHU, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. SIRES, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. ISRAEL, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. WASSERMANSCHULTZ, and Mr. PERLMUTTER. H.R. 1613: Mr. RADELand Mr. BROUNof Georgia. H.R. 1617: Ms. JACKSONLEE, Ms. NORTON, and Ms. WATERS. H.R. 1621: Mr. BISHOPof Georgia, Ms. SCHA-KOWSKY, Mr. PAYNE, and Mr. CARSONof Indi-ana. H.R. 1622: Mr. ALGREENof Texas. H.R. 1626: Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr. STIVERS, and Mrs. BACHMANN. H.R. 1628: Mr. CRAMER, Mr. MCCLINTOCK, Mr. JONES, Mr. DUNCANof South Carolina, and Mr. WESTMORELAND. H.R. 1638: Mr. MASSIE, Mr. LABRADOR, and Mr. POSEY. H.R. 1642: Mr. CARSONof Indiana. H.R. 1643: Mr. CARSONof Indiana. H.R. 1652: Mr. BECERRAand Mr. TIERNEY. H.J. Res. 24: Mr. TIPTON. H.J. Res. 28: Mr. MARINO. H. Con. Res. 23: Mr. BARR. H. Con. Res. 33: Ms. SINEMA. H. Con. Res. 34: Ms. DELAURO. H. Res. 36: Mr. YOUNGof Alaska and Mr. LANCE. H. Res. 72: Mr. SESSIONS. H. Res. 89: Mr. ALGREENof Texas, Mr. GENEGREENof Texas, Mr. STOCKMAN, Mr. CARTER, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. GRAVESof Mis-souri, Mr. RADEL, Mr. GARRETT, Mr. GINGREY of Georgia, Mr. YOUNGof Alaska, and Ms. NORTON. H. Res. 108: Mr. SERRANO. H. Res. 154: Mr. CA´RDENASand Mr. HUFFMAN. H. Res. 160: Mr. MCKINLEY. H. Res. 173: Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr. SHUSTER, Mr. BUCSHON, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. GOHMERT, Mrs. BLACKBURN, and Mr. MCKINLEY. H. Res. 174: Ms. JACKSONLEE, Mr. RANGEL, Ms. WATERS, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. PRICEof North Carolina, Mr. SCOTTof Virginia, Ms. BASS, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms. SCHA-KOWSKY, Ms. EDWARDS, Ms. FRANKELof Flor-ida, Mrs. CAPPS, Mr. WATT, Mrs. DAVISof California, Mr. HECKof Washington, Mr. BARBER, Ms. HAHN, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. BERAof California, Mr. CON-NOLLY, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. CARSONof Indiana, f CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIM-ITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIM-
ITED TARIFF BENEFITS Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or statements on congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff 
benefits were submitted as follows: The amendment to be offered by Rep-resentative PITTS, or a designee, to H.R. 1549, the ‚‚Helping Sick Americans Now Act,™™ does 
not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff bene-
fits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI. VerDate Mar 15 2010 02:26 Apr 25, 2013Jkt 029060PO 00000Frm 00050Fmt 7634Sfmt 0634E:\CR\FM\A24AP7.021H24APPT1
pwalker on DSK7TPTVN1PROD with HOUSE