Skip to main content           The Guardian - Back to home          Support The Guardian   Available for everyone, funded by readers    Contribute        Subscribe        Subscribe            Search jobs            Sign in          My account      Account overview     Billing     Profile     Emails &amp; marketing     Settings     Help      Comments &amp; replies                  Sign out           Search            switch to the  UK edition     switch to the  US edition     switch to the  Australia edition     switch to the  International edition     current edition:  UK edition      News     Opinion     Sport     Culture     Lifestyle          Show More           News     UK news     World news     Business     Coronavirus     Football     Environment     UK politics     Education     Society     Science     Tech     Global development     Obituaries        Opinion     The Guardian view     Columnists     Cartoons     Opinion videos     Letters        Sport     Football     Cricket     Rugby union     Tennis     Cycling     F1     Golf     Boxing     Rugby league     Racing     US sports        Culture     Film     Music     TV &amp; radio     Books     Art &amp; design     Stage     Games     Classical        Lifestyle     Fashion     Food     Recipes     Travel     Health &amp; fitness     Women     Men     Love &amp; sex     Beauty     Home &amp; garden     Money     Cars               What term do you want to search?
 Search with google        Make a contribution     Subscribe        UK edition     switch to the  US edition     switch to the  Australia edition     switch to the  International edition         Search jobs     Hire with Guardian Jobs     Holidays     Live events     Masterclasses     Digital Archive     Guardian Print Shop     Patrons     Guardian Puzzles app     The Guardian app     Video     Podcasts     Pictures     Newsletters     Today's paper     Inside the Guardian     The Observer     Guardian Weekly     Professional networks     Crosswords          Facebook          Twitter       Search jobs     Hire with Guardian Jobs     Holidays     Live events     Masterclasses     Digital Archive     Guardian Print Shop     Patrons     Guardian Puzzles app            Environment     Climate change     Wildlife     Energy     Pollution      More                                Opinion       Renewable energy              This article is more than 2 years old    How to catch 'wind turbine syndrome': by hearing about it and then worrying         This article is more than 2 years old    Simon Chapman      Social anxiety over new technology have a long history.
 Yet Australia has no commissioner for climate change, but we do have a windfarm commissioner.
 Dr Onthemoon's self diagnosis windfarm syndrome check list!
 | First Dog on the Moon           Read more        “Fake news” has long permeated popular understanding via factoids: unreliable information repeated so often that it becomes accepted as fact.
 Social media has massively facilitated the contagion of factoids.
 Bogus statements passed around face-to-face social networks in the pre-digital era moved at glacial pace compared with the speed at which claims circulate today.
 Windfarm anxiety is a recent entrant to the long history of new technology attracting attacks from those fearful of and hostile toward mephistophelian artifice that offends natural order.
 Linda Simon’s history of electricity, Dark Light.
 Electricity and Anxiety from the Telegraph to the X-Ray notes that by the end of the first world war, 80% of US homes still had no electricity.
 Community anxiety about electricity was widespread, and reading by electric light was believed to cause “photo-electric opthalmia” In 1879 the British Medical Journal reported that the newly popular telephone could cause “nervous excitability, with buzzing noises in the ear, giddiness, and neuralgic pains’’.
 19th century American neurologist George Miller Beard argued the proliferation of a range of symptoms of nervousness were caused by “wireless telegraphy, science, steam power, newspapers and the education of women; in other words modern civilization”.
 We’ve since had evidence-free public anxieties about televisions, electric blankets, microwave ovens, power lines, computers, WiFi, smart meters and solar panels.
 Apocalyptic predictions about mobile phones doing to brain cancer what smoking did to lung cancer came to nothing: the incidence of brain cancer has flat-lined for over thirty years while mobile phone use became almost universal.
 My new book with Fiona Crichton, Wind Turbine Syndrome: A Communicated Disease, reviews why it is clear that adverse reactions to wind turbines are casebook examples of psychogenic illness which spread by exposure to negative publicity.
 I’ve counted 247 different diseases and symptoms in humans and animals attributed by opponents to windfarms.
 These include lung cancer, skin cancer, haemorrhoids, gaining and losing weight and my favourite, disoriented echidnas.
 But most are classic symptoms of anxiety: things that can happen to you when you are very worried.
 The nocebo effect, the evil twin sibling of the healing placebo effect, is documented in a vast research literature.
 When some people are exposed to frightening information about agents or exposures, expectancy effects just as powerful as placebo effects can operate to make people feel sick with worry or anxiety.
 25 scientific reviews since 2003 have concluded there is very poor evidence for any claim that wind turbines are the direct cause of any disease.
 Rather, a herd of uncontested elephants in the room point unavoidably to a conclusion that “wind turbine syndrome” is a communicated disease: you catch it by hearing about it and then worrying.
 We know that:  A few windfarms have a few residents who claim to be affected.
 The direct causation hypothesis would predict that all wind farms should affect some people.
 The great majority of complaints occur in English-speaking nations, despite the proliferation of windfarms globally.
 A disease that only speaks English?
 Farms targeted by opposition groups attract more complaints.
 Just six farms in Australia have had 74% of all complaints.
 Those paid to host turbines rarely complain.
 The drug “money” may be a powerful preventive.
 Claims about only “susceptible” individuals being affected (as with motion sickness), can’t explain why there are apparently no susceptible people in all of Western Australia or Tasmania with records of health complaints.
 Experimental subjects randomised to view negative news footage about windfarm harms and then exposed to infrasound show that prior exposure to anxiety producing messages increases reporting of symptoms, even to sham infrasound.
 And then there are the agitators.
 In 2011, Sarah Laurie from the Waubra Foundation told an Adelaide court that turbines can make people’s lips vibrate 10 kilometres away.
 That’s about from downtown Sydney to the suburb of Chatswood.
 She believes these vibrations are “sufficient to knock them off their feet or bring some men to their knees when out working in their paddock”.
 Mythbusters may find that an interesting claim.
 Laurie also claims some Australians are “so exquisitely sensitised to certain frequencies that their perception of very, very low frequency” can “perceive an earthquake in Chile.” Chile is a mere 11,365 kilometres from our east coast.
 Pharmacist George Papadopolous may be such a person.
 He claims that “the problem had dissipated when arriving at Young about 100km from the closest turbines” Noel Dean, an Victorian objector once told an anti–windfarm meeting, “I’ve had my … mobile phone go into charge mode in the middle of the paddock, away from everywhere.” Apple and Samsung are apparently unconvinced.
 Ann Gardner, perhaps Australia’s most prolific windfarm complainant, believes she is adversely affected by wind turbines even when they are switched off.
 And New Zealander Bruce Rapley warned the 2015 Senate windfarm enquiry, “the health effects of wind turbines will eclipse the asbestos problem in the annals of history.” The WHO estimates that today 125 million are occupationally exposed to asbestos and about half of all occupational cancers are asbestos caused.
 No one has ever died from windfarm exposure.
 This sort of claptrap is what passes for evidence in the confected “debate” that has now caused the Australian and two state parliaments to investigate windfarms five times between 2011 and 2015.
 The 2015 Senate enquiry was a travesty of science, failing to even mention the largest, most important longitudinal study run by Health Canada.
 This study provided no support for the direct cause hypothesis.
 People who blame sickness on windfarms 'may be bypassing doctor'           Read more       Windfarm opponents grasp straws that the evidence that wind turbines are dangerous is poor, and argue we need to invest in research that they just know will validate their concerns.
 There’s also “poor evidence” that UFOs, the Loch Ness monster and leprechauns exist, but no serious scientific body thinks investing research in such claims is sensible, other than the politically pressured NHMRC which in 2015 allocated $2.5mn into wind and health research.
 Social panics over new technology have a natural history.
 Few now fear television sets and microwave ovens.
 They heyday of fearing cell phone towers came and went in the 1990s.
 Wind farm anxiety is now thankfully rapidly receding, with the desultory complaint volumes submitted to the Wind Commissioner showing the phenomenon has all but passed.
 The delays this panic caused in driving Australian renewable energy harvesting were major.
 Our book’s final chapter explores the lessons in how we might avoid the next wave of “modern health worries”.
 View more comments                                                        Show comment      Hide comment                                  Hide comment                Welcome , you’re about to make your first comment!
 Before you post, we’d like to thank you for joining the debate - we’re glad you’ve chosen to participate and we value your opinions and experiences.
 Please choose your username under which you would like all your comments to show up.
 You can only set your username once.
 Username:      Must be 6-20 characters, letters and/or numbers only, no spaces.
 Please keep your posts respectful and abide by the community guidelines - and if you spot a comment you think doesn’t adhere to the guidelines, please use the ‘Report’ link next to it to let us know.
 Please preview your comment below and click ‘post’ when you’re happy with it.
 Post your comment     Cancel                                              Your comments are currently being pre-moderated ( why? )
 Please keep comments respectful and abide by the community guidelines .
 Enter comment         Post your comment     Preview     Hide preview     Cancel          B      i      &#8221;      Link                                                              Most popular                            Environment     Climate change     Wildlife     Energy     Pollution            News     Opinion     Sport     Culture     Lifestyle            About us     Contact us     Complaints &amp; corrections     SecureDrop     Work for us     Privacy policy     Cookie policy     Terms &amp; conditions     Help       All topics     All writers     Modern Slavery Act     Digital newspaper archive     Facebook     Twitter     Newsletters       Advertise with us     Guardian Labs     Search jobs     Patrons       Support The Guardian   Available for everyone, funded by readers    Contribute        Subscribe            Back to top          © 2020 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
 All rights reserved.
