China has flight-tested an upgraded version of its 10,000-km range Dongfeng missile which could reach most of the U.S. and European cities.
 Al-Sweida).
 Well, “hope springs eternal” when hundreds of Russian Marines and dozens of Russian jets enter your country; this was the case in the overcrowded provinces of Latakia and Tartous, as large crowds gathered near the coast to welcome these Russian naval infantrymen and their advanced military hardware.
 Earlier this week, a Chinese naval vessel crossed through Egypt’s Suez Canal and entered the Mediterranean Sea; its destination was unknown, but that did not make a difference to the Syrian people because the news circulating around the country indicated that China’s participation in this brutal conflict was imminent.
 According to a senior officer in the Syrian Arab Army that is stationed inside the coastal province of Latakia, “the Chinese will be arriving in the coming weeks.” When asked to elaborate, the officer responded that Chinese military personnel were expected to join the Russians Marines stationed around Syria’s western countryside.
 The officer could not provide anymore details regarding their deployment; however, he did state that the Chinese military personnel were expected to arrive at Tartous’ ports in the next six weeks.
 All comments that are not spam or wholly inappropriate are approved, we do not sort out opinions or points of view that are different from ours.
 Be Civil   This is a Civilized Place for Public Discussion Please treat this discussion with the same respect you would a public park.
 We, too, are a shared community resource — a place to share skills, knowledge and interests through ongoing conversation.
 These are not hard and fast rules, merely guidelines to aid the human judgment of our community and keep this a clean and well-lighted place for civilized public discourse.
 Make it better   Improve the Discussion Help us make this a great place for discussion by always working to improve the discussion in some way, however small.
 If you are not sure your post adds to the conversation, think over what you want to say and try again later.
 The topics discussed here matter to us, and we want you to act as if they matter to you, too.
 Be respectful of the topics and the people discussing them, even if you disagree with some of what is being said.
 Now the hard part!
 Be Agreeable, Even When You Disagree You may wish to respond to something by disagreeing with it.
 That’s fine.
 But remember to criticize ideas, not people.
 Please avoid:  Name-calling Ad hominem attacks Responding to a post’s tone instead of its actual content Knee-jerk contradiction  Instead, provide reasoned counter-arguments that improve the conversation.
 7 Comments          Most Voted   Newest Oldest       Inline Feedbacks View all comments              Ziad Welds     2015-09-27 03:23              yeeehaaawwww comon usa you gonna go up against syria,russia,china,iran,hezb ?
 hahahahahahah good luck ,you morons just need to pull out now and dont even bother with some face saving solution ,you got no time for that ,,you gonna get huge egg on the face soon ,,im loving it       0      TranslateShow all Original               Kevin Rice     2015-09-27 18:14              I like eggs!!
 From my head down to my legs!!
 0      TranslateShow all Original               Connor McMahon     2015-09-30 12:51              Go Putin Go!
 0      TranslateShow all Original               Michael Og     2015-10-06 23:52              if you would’ve told me Id be rooting for Russia and China 15 years ago Id call you insane….
 now you are a very sane person for thinking I am rooting for them our government has made us become the bad guys       0      TranslateShow all Original               Dennis Richardson     2015-10-08 16:18              Now is the time for the American military to act and arrest Barack Obama for treason.
 His actions created these events that have killed many innocent people.
 Try him before many interested witnesses from many other countries.
 Then execute him for treason.
 0      TranslateShow all Original               Jason Watkins     2015-10-08 20:31              Oh good.
 Now we can leave and let someone else fight this “forever war.” But seriously, if you’re do desperate to hate the US that you think the Russians and Chinese are acting out of good will here then you have deluded yourselves.
 They’re following their own self interests just as we have done for years.
 0      TranslateShow all Original               Paul Silbert     2015-11-14 06:57              This story is bullsh*t. Al-Masdar, an Israeli website, has no boots on the ground in Syria, so why does it write as if it does?
 As a retired teacher, I give this an F for Fiction.
 By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
 To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: 		 		Cookie Policy	  Do Not Sell My Personal Information       ABOUT USAl-Masdar Al-'Arabi (The Arab Source / المصدر نيوز) is dedicated to providing the latest news and analysis from the Arab world.
 We know advertisements are annoying, but that is how we are financing bringing you breaking and relevant news.
 Please consider whitelisting this site in your ad blocker or make a donation instead!
