Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 Claim:   Muslim refugees are demanding that the city of Munich, Germany, ban Oktoberfest.
 FALSE Example:   [Collected via email, September 2015] Is this true?
 Muslims demands Munich end ‘anti-Islamic’ Oktoberfest?
 Origins:   On 11 September 2015, a petition was started on the web site Change.org, ostensibly by (and on behalf of) Muslims, requesting that the city of Munich, Germany, cancel its upcoming Oktoberfest celebration because the event is “anti-Islamic”: Dear City council of Munich, I am writing this letter to bring to your attention something that I and many Muslims believe is unfair and requires attention.
 I would like to inform you that the Oktoberfest is an Intolerant and Anti-Islamic event.
 We tried to ignore the event, but there too many Un-Islamic acts done at the Oktoberfest.
 Such as alcohol consumption, public nudity etc.
 We understand that the Oktoberfest is a yearly German tradition, but we, Muslims, can not tolerate this Un-Islamic event, because it offends us and all Muslims on the earth.
 We are requesting the immediate cancellation of the upcoming Oktoberfest event.
 We also believe that the Oktoberfest might also offend all the Muslim refugees coming from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan.
 The cancellation of the Oktoberfest event will help refugees not to forget their Islamic history.
 Thank you for your attention to this matter.
 Sincerely, Morad Almuradi While the petition was “real” in the sense that someone actually posted it to Change.org, it was not written by “Muslim refugees” in Germany as implied by some publications.
 The author of the petition, Morad Almuradi, listed his location as The Netherlands:  The intentions of the author were also unclear, but even if the petition were written in earnest, it would represent one person’s opinion and not that of all Muslim refugees.
 Additionally, the viewpoint expressed by the petition appears to be a minority opinion, as the petition has only managed to muster a few hundred signatures, and the majority of those appear to have come from people who signed in order to add hateful comments:  Those comments lead us to believe that this petition may was created by an Internet troll in order to foment outrage.
 The fact that this petition was posted on 11 September, a day on which items critical of Islam tend to reach fever pitch, supports this hypothesis.
 It should also be noted that anyone can start a petition on Change.org for any reason.
 The web site is currently hosting petitions asking Beyonce to make another Destiny’s Child album, for President Obama to allow a high school student to have a party after homecoming, and for WaWa to bring back roast beef sandwiches.
 Just because something appears on Change.org doesn’t mean that it was written in earnest, that it represents a majority opinion, or that it should be taken seriously.
 Last updated:   16 September 2015 Originally published:   16 September 2015       Snopes.com   Since 1994     Help Supercharge Snopes For 2020  				We have big plans.
 We need your help.
 Become a member!
 By   Dan Evon     Filed Under   ban oktoberfest   munich   muslim               				smg.ads.load( 'post-footer-1' ); 			    Editors' Picks         Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 Did DHS Secretly Watermark Ballots in an Election Fraud Sting Against Dems?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Discussing election mechanics is easier when you actually know how elections work.
 Can State Legislatures Override the Choice of Presidential Electors?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   The electoral college is a unique system for indirectly electing the president of the United States.
 Has Starbucks Sold a ‘Christmas Blend’ Since 1984?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Since at least 2015, the popular coffee chain has faced accusations of being "anti-Christmas."
 Snopes Fact-Checks the 2020 US Election, Live    															5 November 2020													  							Collections						   Lies don't wait — and neither does Snopes.
 Did a Fox 2 Detroit Report Expose Voter Fraud in the 2020 Election?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   An image graphic detailing an assortment of potential election crimes was shared on social media the day after the 2020 presidential election.
 Was the 2020 U.S. Presidential Election Winner Announced Yet?
 7 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   For days, the world waited to see who American voters want to serve as the 46th president of the United States — Donald Trump or Joe Biden.
 Were Trump Ballots Marked with Sharpies Disqualified in Arizona?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Arizona was one of several states apparently won by Joe Biden in 2020 that were targeted by election-related conspiracy theories.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			     Snopes.com needs your help.Become a member today.
 Learn How          				smg.ads.load( 'side-3' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 See the whole collection.
 Support Us       					You rely on Snopes, and we rely on you.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
