NewsNBC News NOWNightly NewsMeet the PressDatelineMSNBCTODAYPresidential resultsElections live blogFull coverageShare this —SearchSectionsCORONAVIRUSU.S.
 NewsPoliticsWorldLocalBusinessHealthInvestigationsCulture MattersScienceSportsTech &amp; MediaDecision 2020In FocusPhotosWeatherShoppingTVTodayMSNBCNightly NewsMeet The PressDatelineFeaturedNBC NEWS NOWTHINKBETTERNIGHTLY FILMSNBC LEFT FIELDASIAN AMERICANBC LATINONBCBLKNBC OUTSTAY TUNEDSPECIAL FEATURESNEWSLETTERSPODCASTSMore from NBCCNBCNBC.COMNBC LEARNPeacockNext Steps for VetsParent ToolkitNBC ArchivesKnow Your ValueCOUPONS Follow NBC News SearchFacebookTwitterEmailSMSPrintWhatsappRedditPocketFlipboardPinterestLinkedin2016 ElectionBernie Sanders Reverses Course on Gun Immunity VoteDemocrats Prepare to Square Off in Last Debate Before Iowa CaucusesJan.
 17, 201601:22Jan.
 17, 2016, 2:26 AM UTC / Updated Jan. 17, 2016, 2:26 AM UTCBy Alex Seitz-WaldCHARLESTON, South Carolina — On the eve of the final Democratic presidential debate here, Sen. Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign announced he would support a bill to strip legal immunity from gun manufacturers, a status they gained from a 2005 bill for which Sanders voted.Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton has made a major issue of Sanders' vote, arguing that he did the bidding of the National Rifle Association and the gun lobby.Sanders has said he was open to reconsidering the law, but said last week his vote was "not a mistake.
 "Democrats Prepare to Square Off in Last Debate Before Iowa CaucusesJan.
 17, 201601:22Related: How 2016 Is Not Like 2008 for Hillary Clinton — It's WorseBut in a statement Saturday night, Sanders said he would support legislation recently introduced by Connecticut Sen. Richard Blumenthal and California Rep. Adam Schiff to repeal key parts of the 2005 law, which shielded gun manufacturers and sellers from lawsuits relating to damage caused by guns they make or sell.
 "I’m pleased that this legislation is being introduced,” Sanders said in a statement.
 "As I have said for many months now, we need to look at the underlying law and tighten it up.
 "Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta said on Twitter that the rival team was pleased with the change, and suggested it was a flip-flop.
 "The Clinton campaign welcomes Senator Sanders’ debate-eve conversion, reversing his vote to immunize gun manufacturers," he said.Sanders campaign manager Jeff Weaver rejected the idea that Sanders had changed his position on the legislation.
 "This is not a flip flop, this is consistent with the position he held earlier in the campaign," he told MSNBC.Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders gear up for Sunday’s DebateJan.
 16, 201601:48Related: How the Primary Is Splitting the Democratic BaseThe Sanders campaign said it would also introduce an amendment to Blumenthal and Schiff legislation aimed at protecting small gun sellers.The amendment would instruct the Department of Commerce to monitor the impact of the repeal on rural stories.
 ","seo":"Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton are in a virtual dead heat as they get ready to rumble in the last debate before the Iowa Caucus.
 WXIA's La'Tasha Givens reports.
 African American men are 50 percent more likely to get prostate cancer and early screening is critical to saving lives.
 With the holidays approaching, health officials warn families should limit or cancel indoor gatherings.
 WLBT's Chelsey Sellars reports.
 KUSA's Katie Eastman reports.
 “What we are witnessing is the highest act of public service,” he says.
 This comes as police are now stepping up training for mental health situations and purchasing more tasers.
 There has been no proof of fraud, despite the president’s allegations.
 The virus is taking a deadly toll on front line health care workers.
 WPTV's Meghan McRoberts reports.
 Responding to viral online allegations, election officials say the use of Sharpie pens at polling stations was planned, and won't invalidate ballots.
 rally through New York","social":"Arrests follow angry Everybody Out!
 Now with a close vote count, President Trump’s campaign is requesting a recount.
 As many focus on election results, front line workers are struggling to keep up with a surge in cases.
 Joe Biden supporters were swayed in part by the toll of the coronavirus pandemic in the state.
 NBC’s Gabe Gutierrez speaks with voters about the impact of the pandemic on their decision.
 He voted for a bill granting immunity in 2005.
 ","seo":"The Sanders campaign said he supports a bill that would strip legal immunity from gun manufacturers.
 He voted for a bill granting immunity in 2005.
 Read breaking headlines covering Congress, Democrats, Republicans, election news, and more.
 Now comes the unimaginably hard part.
 Read headlines covering the presidential debates, polls, results, and more.
 Read them here.
 Read headlines covering the presidential debates, polls, results, and more.
 Read breaking headlines covering Congress, Democrats, Republicans, election news, and more.
 But this year could be different.
 ","seo":"Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton are in a virtual dead heat as they get ready to rumble in the last debate before the Iowa Caucus.
 WXIA's La'Tasha Givens reports.
 African American men are 50 percent more likely to get prostate cancer and early screening is critical to saving lives.
 With the holidays approaching, health officials warn families should limit or cancel indoor gatherings.
 While Clinton once looked unbeatable, she's now facing a very stiff challenge from the Vermont Senator.
 For TODAY, NBC’s Kristen Welker reports.
 ","seo":"In the Democratic race for President, Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders are getting ready for a crucial debate Sunday night on NBC.
 While Clinton once looked unbeatable, she's now facing a very stiff challenge from the Vermont Senator.
 For TODAY, NBC’s Kristen Welker reports.
 Weekend TODAY looks back at the key moments of the historic week.
 ","tease":"Why does the 2020 election feel similar to the 2000 election?
 ","social":"Why does the 2020 election feel similar to the 2000 election?
 Reporting for Weekend TODAY, NBC’s Kerry Sanders takes a look back and highlights the similarities and differences between the two elections.
 ","tease":"Will we know who becomes the next US president on Saturday?
 ","social":"Will we know who becomes the next US president on Saturday?
 Meet the Press moderator Chuck Todd joins Weekend TODAY with a look at the numbers, what it would take to make an official call and why it seems to be taking so long.
 As of early Saturday morning, there’s a gap of over 29,800 votes between Biden and Trump, with Biden leading.
 Trump would need about 60% of the 70,000 ballots to close or surpass the gap.
 Please check your URL or return to","default":"We appreciate the gravity of this situation.
 Please check your URL or return to","globalcitizen":"Something doesn’t look right.
 Please check your URL or return to","knowyourvalue":"Juggling a few things right now!
 Please check your URL or return to","leftfield":"That shot just doesn’t look right.
 Please check your URL or return to","think":"Looks like you got twisted and turned around.
 Please check your URL or return to","today":"We’re having a ’ruff’ time finding this page.
 ":"How can we improve this page?
 ","Images":"Images","Interests":"Interests","Invalid email":"Invalid email","Jan.":"Jan.","July":"July","June":"June","Just now":"Just now","Key Updates":"Key Updates","LIVE COVERAGE":"LIVE COVERAGE","LIVE NOW":"LIVE NOW","Latest":"Latest","Latest Video":"Latest Video","Less":"Less","Live":"Live","Live Blog":"Live Blog","Load More Posts":"Load More Posts","Loading":"Loading","Loading ...":"Loading ...","Local news around you":"Local news around you","MORE":"MORE","March":"March","May":"May","More":"More","NEW":"NEW","Next":"Next","No":"No","Non Broadcast Live Video":"Non Broadcast Live Video","Nope":"Nope","Nov.":"Nov.","Now Playing":"Now Playing","Oct.":"Oct.","Off":"Off","On the show":"On the show","Opinion":"Opinion","Options":"Options","PAID CONTENT":"PAID CONTENT","PHOTOS":"PHOTOS","POST":"POST","POSTS":"POSTS","Paid Content":"Paid Content","Pinned":"Pinned","Play All":"Play All","Prev":"Prev","Price":"Price","Privacy Policy":"Privacy Policy","READ LESS":"READ LESS","READ MORE":"READ MORE","Rate your overall experience":"Rate your overall experience","Read":"Read","Recommended":"Recommended","Result":"Result","SEE":"SEE","SEE ALL":"SEE ALL","SEE NEW":"SEE NEW","SHOP":"SHOP","SHOPPING CONTENT BY STACKCOMMERCE":"SHOPPING CONTENT BY STACKCOMMERCE","SPONSORED":"SPONSORED","SUBSCRIBE":"SUBSCRIBE","Search":"Search","See All":"See All","See All From The Show":"See All From The Show","See local affiliates":"See local affiliates","See story":"See story","Sept.":"Sept.","Share this":"Share this","Sign Up":"Sign Up","Sign Up For Updates":"Sign Up For Updates","Slideshow":"Slideshow","Source":"Source","Spanish":"Spanish","Sponsored By":"Sponsored By","Submit":"Submit","Tap to Unmute":"Tap to Unmute","Terms of Service":"Terms of Service","The page design helps me find other stories I’m interested in":"The page design helps me find other stories I’m interested in","The page design helps me find other videos I’m interested in":"The page design helps me find other videos I’m interested in","The page design helps me find the content I’m interested in":"The page design helps me find the content I’m interested in","The page design helps me understand the news":"The page design helps me understand the news","The page design makes the article easy to read":"The page design makes the article easy to read","The page design makes the video easy to watch":"The page design makes the video easy to watch","This content was paid for by an advertiser and created by the NBC News Brand Studio.
 The NBC News editorial organization was not involved in its creation or production.
 This content represents the views and opinions of the advertiser, who is responsible for all of the material contained therein.
 Links are not endorsements by NBC News.
 ":"This content was paid for by an advertiser and created by the NBC News Brand Studio.
 The NBC News editorial organization was not involved in its creation or production.
 This content represents the views and opinions of the advertiser, who is responsible for all of the material contained therein.
 Links are not endorsements by NBC News.
 ","This site is protected by recaptcha":"This site is protected by recaptcha","Top Moments":"Top Moments","Top Stories":"Top Stories","Trending":"Trending","Trending Gift Guides":"Trending Gift Guides","UP NEXT":"UP NEXT","Updated":"Updated","VIEW":"VIEW","Videos":"Videos","View the story on Storify":"View the story on Storify","View this graphic on":"View this graphic on","Want a response?
 ":"Want a response?
 ","Watch":"Watch","Watch More":"Watch More","We apologize, this video has expired.
 ":"We apologize, this video has expired.
 ","We apologize, we were unable to find your local news.
 Please try another location.
 ":"We apologize, we were unable to find your local news.
 Please try another location.
 ","What\u0026apos;s this?
 ":"What\u0026apos;s this?
 ","What's this?
 ":"What's this?
 ","Who":"Who","Yea":"Yea","Yes":"Yes","You have been successfully added to our newsletter":"You have been successfully added to our newsletter","Your Email Address":"Your Email Address","Your Video Begins in":"Your Video Begins in","Zip code here":"Zip code here","copied!
