Skip to main content          Resource Navigation               opens in new window    Toggle Mobile Search     Close Search             Centers for Medicare &amp; Medicaid Services       Main header   About Us   Newsroom   Data &amp; Research                    Newsroom     Newsroom_Navigation   Press Kit   Data   Contact   Blog   Podcast                         Select search language:   English Español EN ES    Search    - Any -Site's default language (English)Interface text language selected for pageEnglishSpanishNot specifiedNot applicable   Date    And    Sort by Newest FirstBest Match   Order AscDesc   Items per page 1020304050View All                         Fact sheet Fact Sheet: Short-Term, Limited-Duration Insurance Proposed Rule   	           Feb 20, 2018    Coverage Legislation     Share      opens in new window        opens in new window        opens in new window           Fact Sheet: Short-Term, Limited-Duration Insurance Proposed Rule   Proposed Policy Changes  In October, President Trump issued an Executive Order instructing the Departments of Health and Human Services, Labor, and the Treasury to consider proposing regulations or revising guidance to promote healthcare choice and competition by expanding the availability of short-term, limited-duration insurance.
 As a direct result of this, the Departments issued a proposed rule on Tuesday, February 20, that would change the maximum duration of such coverage to less than 12 months, as opposed to the current maximum duration of less than three months.
 Short-term, limited-duration insurance is a type of health insurance coverage that is designed to fill temporary gaps in coverage when an individual is transitioning from one plan or coverage to another form of coverage.
 This type of coverage is exempt from the definition of individual health insurance coverage under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and is therefore not subject to the ACA provisions that apply to individual health insurance plans.
 The proposed rule includes measures to help consumers who purchase short-term, limited-duration policies understand the coverage they are getting.
 The proposal would require one of two versions of a notice to appear in the contract and in any application materials that the plan is not required to comply with ACA provisions.
 Providing Relief from Higher Rates and Limited Choice   Under the previous Administration, the Departments published a final rule in October 2016, which restricted short-term, limited-duration insurance to less than three months, further limiting consumer choice in a market where too many Americans cannot find affordable coverage that meets their health care needs.
 Average premiums have more than doubled from 2013 to 2017 in health plans on the Federal Health Insurance Exchange, and half of U.S. counties have only one insurance carrier to choose from.
 Short-term, limited-duration insurance is generally more affordable than ACA-compliant plans.
 In the fourth quarter of 2016, a short-term, limited-duration policy cost approximately $124 a month compared to $393 for an unsubsidized ACA-compliant plan.
 Based on enrollment trends prior to the October 2016 final rule, the Departments project that approximately 100,000 to 200,000 additional individuals would shift from an ACA-compliant individual market plan to short-term, limited-duration insurance in 2019.
 Only about 10 percent of these individuals would have been subsidy-eligible if they maintained their Exchange coverage.
 Expanding Access to More Affordable Options:  Today’s proposed changes are intended to provide additional, often much more affordable coverage options, while also ensuring consumers understand the coverage they purchase.
 Individuals and families who would benefit from this policy may include those:  who are between jobs or other sources of coverage; who find ACA coverage too expensive or have seen their health insurance choices diminish; and whose doctors are not in network under ACA plans.
 Longer limited-duration plans would also reduce the risk of a gap in coverage for people with short-term coverage who become seriously ill while covered.
 Under current rules, a person who becomes ill would likely not qualify for another plan less than three months in duration because of the illness and would then need to wait without coverage until the next year to gain coverage in the individual market.
 CMS will accept comments on the proposed rule for 60 days.
 The proposed rule is available here: https://www.federalregister.gov/public-inspection.
 The press release can be viewed at https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2018/02/20/trump-administration-works-give-relief-americans-facing-high-premiums-fewer-choices.html.
 ### PreviousNext          Related Releases        Fourth COVID-19 Interim Final Rule with Comment Period (IFC-4)Oct 28, 2020  Trump Administration Acts to Ensure Coverage of Life-Saving COVID-19 Vaccines &amp; TherapeuticsOct 28, 2020  New CMS Proposals Streamline Medicare Coverage, Payment, and Coding for Innovative New Technologies and Provide Beneficiaries with Diabetes Access to More Therapy Choices Oct 27, 2020  CMS Offers Comprehensive Support for Oregon due to Wildfires Sep 17, 2020  CMS Proposes Updates to Coverage Policy for Artificial Hearts and Ventricular Assist Devices (VADs)Aug 12, 2020          Contact us    CMS News and Media Group Catherine Howden, Director Brian Leshak, Deputy Director Jason Tross, Deputy Director Media Inquiries Form 202-690-6145                    Get email updates Sign up to get the latest information about your choice of CMS topics in your inbox.
 Also, you can decide how often you want to get updates.
 SIGN UPopens in new window             CMS &amp; HHS WEBSITES   Medicare.govopens in new window   MyMedicare.govopens in new window   Medicaid.govopens in new window   InsureKidsNow.govopens in new window   HealthCare.govopens in new window   HHS.govopens in new window       HELPFUL LINKS   Acronyms   Archive   Contacts   Glossary   Privacy policy   Privacy settings       RSS FEEDS   Newsroom   Blog   Podcast               opens in new window     opens in new window          A federal government website managed and paid for by the U.S. Centers for Medicare &amp; Medicaid Services.
