so we'll open up the floor for me to answer any questions also want you to know that we do have a Spanish interpreter that will be interpreting my responses and your your question.
 so after I speak so I want to make sure that we take the time to get that information to the entire community.
 So Justin, if you wanna start sure thank you we will start with Andrew Freeman from Spectrum News Andrew Hi Mayor.
 How are you I was just wondering as far as you know.
 Governor Cuomo made some comments today.
 What are what are you?
 What are we seeing locally here in Rochester?
 Do you think Rochester is be how badly is Rochester being impacted, especially minority population of Rochester.
 I know that this is something that the County executive and I have spoken about for the last week and today.
 I have not released the data yet they will be releasing it soon, so I won't take away from the Commissioner of Health.
 Michael Mendoza is Doctor Mendoza 's report, but we are not seeing at a high rate the level of disparity right now, we do believe that if we do not change the social distancing.
 if we do not stay at home, we will see the level of disparities that we see across the country.
 there are many.
 Reasons as to why this is the case going on but today we are basically on par a little bit up from where the population the population numbers.
 but we don't see that disparity as much here in Monroe County as we are seeing across the country, but we have to be diligent and changing people's habits and behaviors during this time or we will.
 Thank you Mark we'll take our next question from Janet Channel 13 James Hold on hold on Justin the Spanish interpreter was going to interpret what I said for the Hispanic community.
 Okay, go ahead.
 You have to unmute, oh sorry.
 See the Rochester so impact impact and they can see them.
 Como hasta ahora o reducirlas gracias I'm sorry can you repeat the question it came in.
 Now that we know the data and we are going to work with the County executive and I know that a Deputy County executive current across still fuck with our deputy mayor earlier today about making sure that those community health organizations in our community, get the test and have access to test where many of the African American Hispanic black and Brown people have been going to get their health care on a regular basis, they are familiar with these community-based health organizations and so we're going to.
 Partner with them, but we also know that currently we don't have enough test in the community across the board to test everyone so they will have guidelines as well until we are able to get more test and I know that this is something that Doctor Mendoza has been working on and we wanna make sure that we are providing the quality of care that all of our community deserves and we save as many lives as possible.
 Justin you have to unmute him.
 Celebrate different.
 I'm cleaning.
 Gracias Good afternoon Mayor Warren Patrick Mason at from News 10 underlying health illnesses and lack of medical care has been an issue in these communities.
 Are you seeing that as a reason why black and Brown members of our community are disproportionately affected by this pandemic So absolutely the issue of the underlying health conditions when it comes down to hypertension diabetes, other obesity and Concerns play into why this can be fatal to people of color, but there is also something that in the beginning of this virus outbreak where there was a message that was given and that was portrayed throughout the community that people still have, and that was that black and Brown people cannot catch this this virus we know from the data that we're receiving from all over the country looking at what the data that New York City's mayor released today was 70 percent of African-American Latino Asian people being the ones that have died.
 From this virus and also in Chicago, Milwaukee and North Carolina New Orleans, we are seeing that we know that the the underlying conditions play a factor in this, but also that the message has gotten to our community late when it comes down to social distancing and the message has not necessarily resonated with communities of color and that is why here in Rochester.
 we're going to be working diligently.
 With some of our community partners, as well as with the County Maroc to make sure that we're providing the right information and education to the community that we have to protect our circles, we have to protect our family and we have to stay home because if someone with some of these underlying conditions actually contract this virus, the likelihood of them it being fatal to them, especially to African-American malls as we're seeing is a significant.
 Higher and that message needs to get out to the community and we will be doing that over the next couple of days so that we can save as many lives as possible.
 So Latina Afro Latina so look at.
 Young Así es.
 Decir Fire Department for DHS as well, so we provide mask we provide gloves.
 We also provide hand sanitizer as well as cleaner for the the vehicles of course many of our employees wanted to clean their own vehicles and they wanted to make sure that once they got into the car that they that it was a sanitized as possible from from user to user, we will continue to provide the.
 PPE, right, now we have enough PPE for all of our employees to utilize the PE one of the things is to make sure that they are utilizing it.
 You know I I did get some concerns from citizens and cause and I was able to speak with the Union President as well as achieve about and just making sure and encouraging our officers.
 We know that they're on the front lines.
 It's a little bit different to have to put on a mask to turn on a body camera to put on glass gloves in order to get out of the.
 But we want them to be as safe as possible.
 We want their families to be safe in our community, be safe as well.
 So, Siguiendo los métodos preventivos para reducir la contracción de este virus.
 Ay OK ya And can you speak a little bit to what you're what you've been made aware of as far as the extent of the concern so we have spoken with Doctor Mendoza as well as the County executive and I know that on a car earlier, a doctor Mendoza released some antidotal data.
 I'm not going to go into the specific numbers because I don't have them in front of me and I'm sure that the County executive and his team will be releasing that.
 Information in a nutshell we don't see at high-level a disparity in the death rate when it comes down to people of color in our community yet what we do know is that if we do not exercise social distancing as well as stay home, then we will see those numbers increase and we will see what's happening across the country happened right here in Rochester and that is why we are.
 To change some of our messaging and really push out messaging specifically to communities of color around what has the potential to happen if we don't change our behaviors around this particular virus.
 what we do know is that people that are in the ICU that people of color are in ICU at a higher rate than other folks and there may be several reasons that that's the case.
 I'll leave that to Doctor Mendoza.
 To address when he addresses this this issue the largest thing that is coming out for me here in in what we see is that that if we don't do something what is happening across the country will be replicated right here in Monroe County, we can do something about it by working together by staying home by protecting our circles and we have to make sure that communities of color get the right message as I stated earlier at one point in time.
 We believe that African Americans Latino people color cannot contract this virus, and I think that that myth had permeated the community and so people at the time was not taken it as seriously as we should have.
 then now, we know that actually people of color across this country are dying at alarming rates because of it, especially African-American males and therefore we need to do something and we need to make sure that we're educating the community properly so that they can have the right.
 To make the best decision possible for them and their families.
 Médico y están en las clínicas en los hospitales, por más tiempo podemos hacer algo quedándonos en las casas y siguiendo las reglas a las personas afroamericanas y los latinos tienen que tomar este virus más en serio y seguir las recomendaciones que están a la ciudad de Rocha y el doctor Mendoza está proporcionando la ciudad gracias.
 Ahí está el agua What is happening among the African American community from the numbers you've seen is the impact on the Latino community in any way to put that in context, if that is of an equal full number.
 I'm based on so the rates based on population size are around the same and so as I said we don't see the overall army alarming disparity that you see in other communities like what was released today in New York City, but we also have to recognize that we are at the very beginning stages of this virus in our community whereas this has impacted them rapidly.
 we know the County executive made a point of just yesterday.
 Annika that our social distancing two weeks ago was based I was rated at an A based on some of the Web developers that are that's tracking that data into date.
 We are now graded at a Sea and so we need to make sure that we continue to exercise the social distancing across the board but what we're seeing here with the African-American and Latino community.
 Is this on track with our population size, however, it will get worse based on what we're seeing in the data today, as well as what we're seeing across the country.
 Latina and Incrementando En That the the County Department of Communications will be releasing some messaging this weekend.
 we will be working with community influencers around our community to do a lot of new digital campaigning as soon as they have that available, we will be so participating on a different radio outlets that communities of color.
 Listen to we will also make sure that.
 We are elevating those community ambassadors those trusted voices in the community, our ministers, our community members members of that for profit organizations our health care workers and in in institutions to make sure that we are delivering that message clearly and in a way that people understand you know yesterday, I was on a call with some local African-American elected officials and they said.
 Well, you know it's a double.
 Standard We're saying, keep six you know when you go out have six feet distance between you and the other person, however, you know, but you also staying stay home and so people feel like okay well if I stayed home a week and I go visit my grandma and and on Saturday or over the weekend that that will be okay because I was home, but the the fact that the matter is that you can be home and be a symptomatic but go.
 Your grandmother's House and actually have her contract this virus and she could possibly die from it.
 and so I think that we have to be very clear about the social gathering people hanging out in their circles.
 Many people get together, They're having car parties that are maybe having sleepovers with children.
 They may be also going to visit people in their circle and they feel that it's safe because they might have stayed home for a significant period of time.
 We need to make sure that we're giving a message that in this particular case, it can be fatal if you are going to visit people especially those people that are elderly those people that have these underlying conditions and those people of color in particular that have these underlying conditions.
 So for equality.
 Queremos dejarle saber también que hay personas que piensan que si visitan a sus familiares o las personas que están dentro de su círculo social porque no tienen ningunos síntomas hasta el momento, piensen que es seguro, pero nuevamente queremos dejarle saber no es seguro manténganse en su casa, practiquen el distanciamiento social porque aunque no tenga síntomas el visitar a familiares o exponerse a grupo, más de más de diez personas va en contradicción a todo lo que se le exhorta a la comunidad que haga.
 Jaime Going to utilize them in the best way that we know how and that's through them preparing videos through their their phone.
 they we are going to utilize the the tools that we have available to deliver those messages and if we need to do some direct phone, dialing and in a robot darling to people to to get that message.
 if we start to see the numbers tick up the way that we possibly believe that it will hear we we will.
 Those types of things we're gonna utilize every message that we can or every method that we can to deliver the message to the community that we have to do something different here in order to save lives and I know that this is very very hard for our folks because we're used to gathering we used to gathering with our family and our friends and but but we want to tell them that in even that scenario.
 Where you know this is your circle.
 These are your people that you can actually kill them if you're not careful and so it is our responsibility to save each other in this situation and that message needs to be clearly delivered by trusted ambassadors.
 Whichever way we have possible to deliver those messages because our goal in all of this is not just a flatten.
 The curve is to actually save lives.
 Hello everyone.
 Asegurarse de que reciban la información, la meta no es tan solo aplanar la curva del virus, sino asegurarse que estemos salvando vidas.
 Hi Mayor Andrew Freeman from Central News I add we saw that your uncle passed away from Covered 19.
 We're so sorry for your loss.
 Would this be something you feel comfortable addressing?
 My uncle in in New York City and he contracted this this virus he was actually in a in a home and he suffered from he was differently, abled and this is really hurt my grandmother who's who's 90 - three a years old because we had been trying to get her to move to warmer climate climate.
 another things for many years but.
 She remained in New York City to be very close to him because of his his abilities and her love for him and so having no many families that have suffered a great loss with this virus and it is rapidly moving throughout communities and people are not given the time to say goodbye many families loved ones are dying by themselves and you know I'm talking to her.
 Last night and in hearing that the pain in her voice because not knowing if she would even be able to access the body there is something tragic.
 That is, of course, you know what the governor has been talking about happening in in New York City and many families are being impacted 70 percent of those families being people of color and already suffering from impoverished conditions and disparities.
 So for for me having had someone that you know you love and family member that lost his life to this virus someone that couldn't defend themselves and was you know subjected to this because of the the place that he resided in, I I can tell you that I appreciate all of our health care workers.
 I appreciate everyone that's putting their lives online to to help into provide.
 Services to all those that are in need right now, the best thing that we all can do to protect our loved ones is to listen to the medical advice that is being given and that is to stay home to if you have to go out to stay within a six foot distance from the next person tonight gather when you hear a 90 - three -year-old woman just say you know to you you And she said that to me 15 times yesterday, Andrews Gun Andrew's gun, and I don't know if I'm going to be able to get his body that breaks your heart because there's nothing that I can do to to help her and we will all be in this situation given the rapid spread of this virus when it comes down to the end of this if we do not listen what will happen is we will all lose a loved one or people in our.
 Circle that will suffer and circumvent to this disease and so I'm asking people to listen to understand that this is not something that we're playing about or joking about this is something that is taken lives all over this country.
 We have an obligation to the people that we love to the people that we care about to make sure that we do everything possible to save their lives to go home.
 Our families and make sure that we're delivering that message to every person that we care about because we want them to be on the other side of this and we can and that's the one thing that's so very, very important about this, we can make it to the other side of this virus if we do what it takes today to save lives tomorrow.
 You have a number of choices using the tools described below.
 Some cookies are required in order to use Facebook.
 One of the ways Audience Network shows relevant ads is by using your ad preferences to determine which ads you may be interested in seeing.
 This helps us do things such as give you a more personalised experience on Facebook.
 As of 5 October 2020, you may find additional information about the controls offered by popular browsers at the links below.
 Certain parts of Facebook Products may not work properly if you have disabled browser cookies.
 You can review your cookie controls at any time.
 Check your connection and try again.
