Unemployment insurance gives money the whole period of time the crisis exists at your present salary level and covers just about everyone,” Schumer said.Sen.
 Debbie StabenowDeborah (Debbie) Ann StabenowPeters fends off challenge in Michigan Senate race Top Senate GOP super PAC makes final .6M investment in Michigan Senate race Democratic senator votes against advancing Amy Coney Barrett nomination while wearing RBG mask MORE (D-Mich.), who participated in an initial round of talks with Senate Republican chairmen on Friday morning, argued that direct payments will not be as effective as expanded unemployment benefits.“In the Republican package there was nothing on unemployment insurance,” Stabenow said.
 “Those numbers don’t make any sense.“One-time payments are not what people need.
 What people need is a paycheck.
 They need ongoing income until this is done.
 That’s what they need,” she said.The rebate checks would begin phasing out for individuals who earned more than $75,000 in 2018 and married couples who made more than $150,000.People who pay little to nothing in income taxes but earned at least $2,500 would get a minimum rebate of $600.Sen.
 "Stabenow, however, argued that the administration could speed up unemployment benefits if Trump decides to make it a priority.“There are disagreements on that.
 This is one where there’s a will there’s a way,” she said.Several Republicans, including Sens.
 Lindsey GrahamLindsey Olin GrahamMcConnell, Graham warn GOP Senate majority on the line in Georgia Graham: Biden 'deserves a Cabinet' if he wins Graham: Senate may confirm Trump judges into 2021 MORE (S.C.) and Rand PaulRandal (Rand) Howard PaulRepublican Bill Hagerty wins Tennessee Senate race Georgia Republican Drew Ferguson tests positive for COVID-19 Could Blacks and Hispanics hand Trump a November victory?
 MORE (Ky.), have voiced a preference for delivering aid in the form of unemployment benefits instead of checks to individuals and families regardless of whether they are forced to miss work.“I’d rather take that $250 billion and put it in a system that will give people sustainable income,” Graham said Thursday.
 “Direct payments make sense when the economy is beginning to restart, makes no sense now because it’s just money.
 "“What I want is income, not one check.
 I want you to get a check you can count on every week, not one week,” he added.
 “Here’s what I’m focused on: You have unemployment insurance that is totally inadequate, let’s beef it up."
 This is how she got it back.
 Changing America      More From The Web  Sponsored                Don't miss a brief.
 Sign up for our daily email.
