This is to counter that.
 It was standing-room only, with about a dozen people standing in the back of the room.
 "It's an interesting time (in Washington)," Grothman said.RELATED:  Grothman: Obamacare repeal still possibleRELATED:  Wisconsin's Glenn Grothman helps GOP health bill survive key voteRELATED:  Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner talks health care, Donald Trump at respectful town hallThe 61-year-old second-term congressman said preexisting conditions and tax subsidies will be covered in future health care legislation.
 Grothman threw his support behind March's scrapped health care bill, known as the American Health Care Act.
 "It would not surprise me if I vote on that plan in the next two weeks," he said about the latest iteration of an Obamacare replacement package.Grothman called the federal government "very broke" and said the country's debt will soon hit $20 trillion.
 He promised not to cut Social Security, confirmed his support for a controversial border wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, called Planned Parenthood the "biggest abortion provider in the country," said the country's welfare system "discourages" work and marriage and said he would be surprised if the Environmental Protection Agency "doesn't take some sort of (budget) cut.
 ""Just about every agency is going to take some sort of cut," Grothman said when asked about the proposed 31 percent cut to the EPA.It was the latest in a series of town halls for Grothman since early April, who has recently held town halls in Sheboygan, Redgranite and Berlin.
 And like other town halls held by Republicans nationwide since November's election, it has sometimes turned disorderly.
 "In general, I'm old enough to remember the 1970s when they talked about global cooling," Grothman said to a question about climate change, which drew groans from the crowd. "
 ... We'll be looking at it.
 "Grothman said people want to see Trump's unreleased tax returns because they want to see if they would show conflicts of interest.
 "I can understand why some politicians perhaps don't want to release them," he said.Evie Reddin of Menasha asked Grothman his position on Planned Parenthood.
 She said he couldn't use abortion in his answer.
 "Planned Parenthood is the biggest abortion provider in the country," Grothman said, drawing more groans. "
 ...
 They're also an outspoken advocate for what I could call some controversial programs.
 "Menasha's Roger Kanitz asked Grothman if he would support the Climate Solutions Caucus, a growing bipartisan group of congressional leaders who seek solutions for climate change.
 Grothman said he will "look at" supporting it.Another person asked Grothman if he would promise not to vote for a tax cut if it increases the deficit.
 Grothman said the goal of a tax cut is to "energize the economy.
 ""I think, right now, the tax code currently has provisions in it which disproportionately favor the rich.
 I also think the tax code is very generous to people who might not be working as hard as they could.
 "Grothman said he will "do what he can" to make sure Trump's budget doesn't eliminate funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative.
