Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 3 January 2019													  							Fact Check						   If true, this is our chance to see what happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object.
 Did Trump Instruct Acting Secretary of State to Nullify Oaths Taken on Qurans?
 10 December 2018													  							Fact Check						   It's a challenge to 'nullify' something that didn't happen in the first place.
 Has a Michigan ‘Sharia Zone’ Banned Bacon and Required the Wearing of Burqas in Public?
 10 August 2018													  							Fact Check						   More false claims about Islamic sharia law taking over in the state of Michigan originated with a so-called "satirical" web site.
 Did Congresswoman Ateesha Nubbins Put an Upper-Age Limit on Voting?
 10 July 2018													  							Fact Check						   A meme created by a satirical Facebook page convinced some viewers that a fictional congresswoman was attempting to pass a non-existent law.
 Was a Child Expelled From School for Wearing a Donald Trump Costume?
 25 June 2018													  							Fact Check						   A story about a six-year-old getting in trouble for his choice in superhero attire came from a site that only publishes satire.
 Did a New Hampshire Congressman Deface Donald Trump’s Limousine?
 18 June 2018													  							Fact Check						   A prolific producer of fake news publishes yet another false meme about an 'Arnim Zola'.
 Did ABC’s Senior Vice President of Programming Mutafa Ka’Plese Decide to Cancel ‘Roseanne’?
 31 May 2018													  							Fact Check						   ABC Senior Vice President of Programming Mutafa Ka'Plese did not cancel the rebooted sitcom because ABC Senior Vice President of Programming Mutafa Ka'Plese does not exist.
 Did Elementary School Principal Muhammad Al-Salad Forcibly Implement a Halal Menu?
 10 April 2018													  							Fact Check						   A satirical Facebook page used a food-based pun to spread fake news about a fictional school principal.
 Did an Explosion at Al Franken’s Montana Ranch Kill 6 People?
 Fact Check						   The fake news article misuses an image of a New York City building fire.
 Did Oregon’s Anti-Gay Cake Bakers Win the Lottery?
 5 January 2018													  							Fact Check						   A story about two bakers who won a big lottery payout just after being slapped with a fine came from a site that only publishes satire and fake news.
 Was a Room Full of Servers and Hard Drives Destroyed in a Clinton House Fire?
 5 January 2018													  							Fact Check						   A fire at a property owned by Bill and Hillary Clinton in New York state sparked a veritable inferno of fake news.
 Were ‘Black People in Birmingham’ Caught Voting Multiple Times With Fake IDs?
 Fact Check						   A so-called "satire" site published a story falsely claiming black voters committed fraud in Alabama's special election.
 Did a Fox 2 Detroit Report Expose Voter Fraud in the 2020 Election?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   An image graphic detailing an assortment of potential election crimes was shared on social media the day after the 2020 presidential election.
 Was the 2020 U.S. Presidential Election Winner Announced Yet?
 7 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   For days, the world waited to see who American voters want to serve as the 46th president of the United States — Donald Trump or Joe Biden.
 Were Trump Ballots Marked with Sharpies Disqualified in Arizona?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Arizona was one of several states apparently won by Joe Biden in 2020 that were targeted by election-related conspiracy theories.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
