1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays    1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays     Menu                 Watch Live Watch   Alerts      Live Watch 0     Close x   Live Watch    Alerts        Go         COVID-19 News and Resource Center        The Rebound Richmond    We're Open  Virginia Together  Getting Back To Work  Making Ends Meet  Managing the Pressure  Doing What’s Right  Keeping You Safe       Weather    Forecast  Interactive Radar  Map Center   Weather Alerts  Skytracker Cams  School Closings &amp; Delays  Weather News       Traffic    Gas Prices       News    WTVR CBS 6 Originals  Breaking News and Alerts  Local  National  International  Virginia Politics  National Politics  Election 2020  Consumer  Financial Fitness  Don't Waste Your Money  Crime and Justice  Entertainment  Military and Government  Offbeat  Weather News  Watch Live Newscasts   Watch Videos       CBS 6 Problem Solvers    Contact the Problem Solvers  Problem Solvers Investigations  Working On Your Bill   Shelby Brown  Laura French  Melissa Hipolit  Bree Sison        Beyond the Roster       Building Better Minds    Rob Cardwell       CBS 6 Gives       Heroes Among Us    Greg McQuade       I Have a Story    Greg McQuade       Our RVA     Rob Desir       Wayne's World    Wayne Covil       Health    Buddy Check 6        Sports    Beyond the Roster  Final Score Friday  Olympics       Community    A List Events with Antoinette Essa  Events Calendar  Battle of the Brains  Paws for Pets  Community Advisory Council       Eat It, Virginia    Food and Drink News  Scott Wise   Robey Martin        Virginia This Morning    Jessica Noll  Bill Bevins   Virginia This Morning on Facebook   Virginia This Morning on Instagram        Contests       TV Listings        About Us    Contact WTVR CBS 6   Staff Email Directory  Meet the WTVR CBS 6 News Team  Jobs at WTVR  Internships at WTVR CBS 6  WTVR CBS 6 Speaker Request Form  Advertise on CBS 6 and WTVR.com   Closed Captioning Info   Public File  EEO Reports   TV Listings      Sign InNewsletters Sign OutManage Emails Apps Careers            News       Local       Originals       National       Politics       Virginia Politics       Entertainment       Offbeat       Sports       Weather       Quick links... News Local Originals National Politics Virginia Politics Entertainment Offbeat Sports Weather     1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays            Joe Biden will win election and become 46th president of the United States, AP projects            NewsLocal News   Actions    Facebook    Tweet   Email        Officer Katie Thyne killed during traffic stop: ‘All she did was smile’                                                             By:     Web Staff             Posted at 11:06 AM, Jan 24, 2020  and last updated 2020-06-15 11:38:39-04  NEWPORT NEWS, Va. -- Fighting back tears, Newport News Police Steve Drew addressed the community following the death of Newport News Police Officer Katie Thyne.
 Thyne was killed during a traffic stop at about 6:47 p.m.
 Thursday.
 "Katie was a true hero and she served this community," Chief Drew said.
 "She was very active in the community.
 If you ever saw her, all she did was smile.
 She was always smiling."
 Thyne and her partner were investigating reports of drug activity when they approached a car along the 1400 block of 16th Street, Newport News Police said.COMPLETE COVERAGE: Hundreds gather to honor slain Newport News officer at funeral: ‘She was loved’Police chief gives emotional account of incident that killed Virginia officer: 'A true hero'Processional honors slain Newport News officer: ‘She’s our sister’Man accused of killing Newport News police officer expresses regretHundreds run to honor Newport News officer killed in line of dutySketch artist draws portrait of fallen Newport News officer to keep her memory alive    During the course of the investigation, the driver sped off, dragging Thyne for about a block, Chief Drew said referencing the officer's body camera footage recorded at the scene.The car hit a tree and Officer Thyne was pinned between the tree and the car's door, Chief Drew said.
 Thyne was rushed to Sentara Norfolk General Hospital where she was pronounced dead.The Navy veteran leaves behind a two-year-old daughter.
 The New Hampshire native joined Newport News Police in 2018.
 "She wanted to be in law enforcement and she wanted to do it in this city," Chief Drew said.The driver of the car, identified as Vernon Green II, was taken into custody and charged with felony homicide, evading and eluding, and possession of narcotics.In her free time, Thyne helped coach basketball at the Boys &amp; Girls Club.
 37.087082-76.473012   Copyright 2020 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved.
 This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
 Sign up for the Headlines Newsletter and receive up to date information.
 now signed up to receive the Headlines Newsletter.
 News       Weather       Traffic       Problem Solvers       TV Listings        About &amp; Contact        Support          Site Map       Do Not Sell My Info       Privacy Policy       Terms of Use       EEO       FCC Public File       FCC Application       Public File Contact Us       Closed Captioning Contact        Social  CBS6News  cbs6  cbs6      Scripps Local Media© 2020 Scripps Media, Inc
