 















































































                    
           
        
     
        Contents 
Introduction 
1˝ Executive summary 
3˝ Part One Œ Who is subject to charges? 
Chapter 1. Exempt services and individuals 
10˝ 
Chapter 5. The health surcharge: how to deal with and recognise someone ˝
Chapter 8. When to provide hospital treatment to those not entitled to it free ˝
Chapter 10. How to deal with those under reciprocal healthcare agreements ˝
Chapte
r 2. T
he law in England 
13˝ 
Chapter 3. Ordinary residence 
27˝ 
Chapter 4. Detailed list of services which are exempt from charges 
31˝ 
who has paid or is exempt from paying 
36˝ 
Chapter 6. Former UK residents, armed forces members and war pensioners 
51˝ 
Chapter 7. Vulnerable patients and those detained 
54˝ 
of charge 
65˝ 
Chapter 9. How to deal with those with EU rights and exemptions 
70˝ 
and other international obligations 
82˝ 
Part Two Œ How to implement the charging rules effectively 
Chapter 11. Collaborative working and separation of duties: the role of staff ˝
in cost recovery 
88˝ 
Chapter 12. Working with the Home Of˜ce 
101˝ 
Chapter 13. Financial matters 
103˝ 
  1 Introduction˝ 
This manual of guidance supersedes and replaces all previous guidance on the 
implementation of the Charging Regulations. 
This guidance seeks to provide help and advice on the implementation of the National 
Health Service (Charges to Overseas Visitors) Regulations 2015. However, it cannot 

cover all circumstances and is not intended to be a substitute for the Regulations 

themselves, which contain the legal provisions. Relevant NHS bodies are advised to 

seek their own legal advice on the extent of their obligations when necessary. 
Not everyone is entitled to free NHS hospital treatment in England. This guidance explains 
what should happen when an overseas visitor needs NHS treatment provided by an NHS 

hospital in England. It is for staff at relevant NHS bodies, including clinicians, senior managers 

and clerks, and in particular for staff with a responsibility to identify and charge overseas 

visitors. The Department of Health strongly recommends that relevant NHS bodies have 

a designated person/s Œ hereafter referred to as an 
Overseas Visitor Manager (OVM)
 Œ to oversee the implementation of the Charging Regulations. All staff, including clinicians 

and managers, have a responsibility to ensure that the charging rules works effectively. 

The success of the charging rules also depends on the trust NHS staff being aware and 

supportive of the role of the OVM. 
They should be given the authority to ensure that the 

charging rules can be properly implemented in all departments. 
  2 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Frequently used abbreviations 
EHIC Œ the European Health Insurance Card (previously E111). 
PRC Œ Provisional Replacement Certi˜cate, issued to eligible citizens in cases where an ˝
EHIC cannot be produced.˝ 
S1 Œ issued to pensioners, posted or frontier workers. The term ‚pensioner™ includes those 
in receipt of a qualifying long-term bene˜t. If an original form is presented to an OVM, this 

should be sent to the Overseas Healthcare Team in Newcastle for registration (the holder 

may also have a copy for personal use). A1 Œ the portable form issued to a posted worker con˜rming cover by the issuing state. ˝The A1 accompanies a valid EHIC for qualifying posted workers.˝ S2 Œ payment guarantee from the issuing country for planned treatment (previously E112). 
EEA Œ refers to visitors and migrants from inside the European Economic Area countries.   
A summary of these countries can be found in Chapter 9. Throughout this guidance, 

reference to EEA states or EEA nationals should be understood to include a reference to 

Swizerland or Swiss nationals as appropriate, except in relation to the operation of the 

cross-border healthcare directive (discussed in Chapter 9) which has not been applied to 

Switzerland. Non-EEA Œ refers to visitors and migrants from any countries which are outside the ˝
European Economic Area.˝ 
              3 Executive summary˝ 
1. A person will be 
ﬁordinarily resident of a trustﬂ
 in the UK when that residence is 
lawful, adopted, voluntary, and for settled purposes as part of the regular order of their life for 
the time being, whether of short or long duration. Nationals of countries outside the European 

Economic Area (EEA) must also have inde˜nite leave to remain in the UK in order to be 

ordinarily resident here. A person who is ordinarily resident in the UK must not be charged for 

NHS hospital services. 
2. The Charging Regulations place a 
legal obligation
 on NHS trusts, NHS foundation 
trusts and Local Authorities in the exercise of public health functions
1 in England, to establish 
whether a person is an overseas visitor to whom charges apply, or whether they are exempt 
from charges. When charges apply, a relevant NHS body 
must
 make and recover charges 
from the person liable to pay for the NHS services provided to the overseas visitor. A list of 

exempt services and exempt categories of overseas visitor is provided in Chapter 1, with a 

more detailed list of exempt services at Chapter 4. 
3. Signi˜cant changes have been made to the exemption categories by these Charging 
Regulations. An exemption for temporary migrants coming to the UK for six months or 
more from outside the EEA/Switzerland has been introduced. They are required to pay the 

immigration health charge (referred to as the health surcharge), are exempt, or payment is 

waived. Payment of, or exemption or waiver from the health surcharge entitles the person to 

free NHS services on the same basis as an ordinarily resident patient while their visa remains 

valid, which means they must not be charged. More on this group and how to recognise them 

can be found in Chapter 5. 
4. The 
general position
 for non-EEA and Swiss nationals is that those who have inde˜nite 
leave to remain in the UK and are ordinarily resident here, and those who have paid or are 
exempt or waived from paying the health surcharge, are entitled to NHS services on the same 

basis. This means that while their visa remains valid they 
must not be charged
. 5. Non-EEA/Swiss nationals who are visiting the UK for six months or less including 
on a multiple entry VISA, or who are in the UK without permission, 
must be charged
 for 
services they receive at the point of accessing care, unless exempt from charges under other 

categories of the Charging Regulations. 
6. 
The 
general position
 for British citizens/EEA/Swiss nationals is that those who are 
ordinarily resident here 
must not be charged
. 1 Referred to as ‚relevant NHS bodies™ or ‚relevant NHS body™ in the Charging Regulations, as the context 
requires. 
                   4 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
7. British citizens living in another EEA country/Swiss nationals living in another EEA country 
here on a temporary visit or course of study, and who are insured by their resident state, should 
present a valid European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) from that member state to access free 

medically necessary treatment. The UK will recover the cost of that healthcare from the other 

member state. 
8. British citizens/EEA/Swiss nationals who are visiting and who do not have a valid 
EHIC or Provisional Replacement Certi˜cate (PRC) and who are not covered under another 
exemption category under the Charging Regulations, must be charged for services they 

receive at the point of accessing care. 
9. The way in which a person quali˜es as insured varies depending on their country of 
residence. However, in every case where someone is insured they will have, or will be entitled 
to hold, an 
EHIC
 from the EEA state/Switzerland in which they are insured. Each family 
member, including children, will have their own EHIC. 
10. 
If they cannot show their EHIC, they may instead produce a 
PRC
 to prove entitlement 
under the EU Regulations. It should be for the patient or their representative to arrange the 
issue of the PRC from the EEA state/Switzerland that would issue their EHIC, but the OVM may 

assist with this if needed. The relevant document in the OVM toolbox can be accessed here: 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/help-for-nhs-to-recover-costs-of-care-from-visitors-and
migrants 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-on-overseas-visitors-hospital-charging
regulations 
11. 
The information above sets out the 
general
 position only. These general principles 
do not apply in all cases
, and relevant NHS bodies must ensure that they understand the full 
scope of the Charging Regulations when making and recovering charges from overseas 
visitors. 
12. 
A relevant NHS body also has human rights obligations, so chargeable 
treatment 
which is considered by clinicians to be immediately necessary must never be withheld 
from an overseas visitor
, even when that overseas visitor has indicated that they cannot pay. 
This does not mean that the treatment should be provided free of charge. Charges will still 

apply, and, if not yet recovered, should be pursued after the treatment is provided. Treatment 

which is not immediately necessary, but is nevertheless classed as urgent by clinicians, as it 

cannot wait until the overseas visitor can return home, should also be provided regardless of 

the patient™s ability to pay. Every effort should be made to obtain payment or a deposit in the 

period before treatment starts. 
Non-urgent, or elective, treatment should not begin until 
full payment has been received
. See Chapters 11 and 13 for more important information 
about how and when to ask for payment from chargeable overseas visitors. 
13. 
All relevant NHS bodies, as public authorities, must comply with the public sector 
equality duty in the exercise of their functions. More details on this, and on resources which 
can be used to assist NHS organisations to do this, can be found in Chapter 11. 
 Executive summary 5
14. 
When a relevant NHS body treats a visitor or student from another EEA member state 
or Switzerland, they must inform the Overseas Healthcare Team at the Department of Work 
and Pensions of details of the 
EHICs
/S2 documents held by that person. 
This information 
is necessary to allow the UK to recover the cost of treating EEA/Swiss residents
. See 
Chapter 9 for more information.
15. 
This guidance does not cover treatment provided by a 
general practitioner (GP)
, dentist or optician, although there is some comment on GP registration in Chapter 11. Nor 
does it concern charging arrangements in 
Wales
, Scotland 
and
 Northern Ireland
 as 
these are governed by separate legislation under the jurisdiction of their respective devolved 

administrations.
16. 
A relevant NHS body 
in England
 may seek help and advice from the Department of 
Health about any aspect of the Charging regulations and this guidance.  They should do 
so by using the OVM online community, or emailing 
overseasvisitors@dh.gsi.gov.uk
,2 about 
any aspect of the Charging Regulations and this guidance.
3 Ultimately, the decision that 
a patient is liable for charges legally rests with the relevant NHS body providing the 

treatment
. In cases where a patient™s circumstances are unclear, unusual or appear not 
to be provided for in this guidance, relevant NHS bodies should seek legal advice as to the 

application of the Charging Regulations to the patient.
17. 
This guidance may be amended on occasion to re˜ect changes to the Charging 
Regulations. Relevant NHS bodies should ensure that they refer to the latest version.  
Up-to-date advice and information is also available on the Department of Health website at 

www.dh.gov.uk/overseasvisitors
 the Department of Health has also published a toolbox at 

www.gov.uk/government/publications/help-for-nhs-to-recover-costs-of-care-from-visitors-and-

migrants
 and
 www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-on-overseas-visitors-hospital-
charging-regulations
. The aim of the toolbox is to help trusts discharge their cost recovery 
duties more effectively and contains a wide range of documents including standardised best 

practice preattendance forms for all patients to ˚ll in when being admitted. Relevant NHS 

bodies should check the website and toolbox regularly for information which may update 

and augment this document. A table of subsequent changes made to this guidance will be 

compiled as they arise, and will appear in any updates. A list of other relevant materials is set 

out below.
2 If you would like an invitation to be part of the forum, please email nhscostrecovery@dh.gsi.gov.uk.
3 NB: Questions cannot be answered about GP registrations Œ GP practices should contact the Local Area 
Team of NHS England with any queries.
   6 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Documents/materials available to assist 
OVM
s in carrying out their role˝ 
Document/item name Type 
Location Visitor & 

Migrant NHS 
Cost Recovery 
Programme Plan 

Implementation 
2014Œ16 Policy document www.gov.uk/government/publications/r

costs-of-nhs-healthcare-from-visitors-and-migrants 
The Overseas 
Visitor Manager 

Toolbox 
Policy document www.gov.uk/government/publications/help-for

to-recover-costs-of-care-from-visitors-and-migrants 
www.gov.uk/gover
overseas-visitors-hospital-charging-regulations 
The Overseas 
Visitor Manager 

Online 
Community Web forum 
https://dhexchange.kahootz.com/connect.ti/system/ 
home Visitor & 

Migrant NHS 
Cost Recovery 
Programme™s 

Twitter feed 
Social media https://twitter.com/nhscostrecovery 
Visitor & 

Migrant NHS 
Cost Recovery 
Programme™s 

blog Social media https://nhscostrecovery.blog.gov.uk/ 
Sustaining 
Services, 
Ensuring Fairness 

Œ The NHS 
Cost Recovery 
Programme 
Webinar 
www.hfma.org.uk/hfma-tv/webinars/webinar-detail. 

html?id=101&pageSection=2 Improving 

systems for 
cost recovery 
Webinar 
https://www.brighttalk.com/webcast/7323/146139 
  Executive summary 7 
Contents of the Overseas Visitor Manager Toolbox 
Policy Documents Equality Analysis: Immigration sanctions for those with unpaid debts arising from 

NHS (Charging to Overseas Visitors) Regulations 2011 
Equality Analysis: Overseas visitors Charging Regulations and guidance 2015 Government response to the consultation on migrant access and ˜nancial 
contribution to NHS provision in England 
Guide to EHIC Incentive Scheme How to complete the NHS debtors spreadsheet 

How to report EEA treatment on the OVT Portal 

Implementing the overseas visitor Charging Regulations (The Guidance) 
Information about the cross-border healthcare directive 
Contents of the Overseas Visitor Manager Toolbox 
Policy Documents 
(cont) Information sharing with the Home Of˜ce: guidance for overseas patients 
Tool: Determining if a person is properly settled in the UK in order to establish if 
they are ordinarily resident here 
Templates 
Example pre-attendance form 
Example undertaking to pay form 
Immigration information request form 

Letter: Advice to doctors and dentists 
Letter: Document acknowledgment Œ patient chargeable 
Letter: Document acknowledgment Œ patient non-chargeable 
Letter: No documents received Œ patient chargeable 

Letter: Payment request 

Letter: Reminder for patient information 
Letter: Request for advice from doctors/dentists form 

Letter: Request for patient information   8 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Contents of the Overseas Visitor Manager Toolbox 
Other useful resources 
EEA countries and contact points EEA member state ˚ags 
How to recognise a European Health Insurance Card 

Overseas Visitor Manager code of conduct 

Poster: Map of EEA countries 
Poster: Map of countries with reciprocal agreements 

Poster: Show your EHIC poster 
Useful contacts for NHS Overseas Visitor Managers 

Vulnerable groups signposting contact list 
 Part One Œ Who is subject to charges? 
        
 
  
 
 
     10 Chapter 1. Exempt services and individuals˝ 
This chapter lays out details of all services which are free of charge to patients, and of 
all individuals who are entitled to receive healthcare on the same basis as an ordinarily 

resident person 
1.1 
The following services are free at the point of use to everyone to all people. A charge 
cannot be made or recovered from any overseas visitor for: 

accident and emergency (A&E) services, this includes all A&E services provided at an 
NHS hospital, e.g. those provided at a walk-in centre or urgent healthcare centre. This 

does 
not
 include those emergency services provided after the overseas visitor has been 
accepted as an inpatient, or at a follow-up outpatient appointment, for which charges 

must be levied unless the overseas visitor is exempt from charge in their own right; 
services provided outside an NHS hospital, unless the staff providing the services are 

employed by, or working under the direction of, an NHS hospital; 
family planning services (does not include termination of pregnancy); 
diagnosis and treatment of speci˜ed infectious diseases (listed at Chapter 4) 
diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted infections; 
treatment required for a physical or mental condition caused by: 
Œ˙ torture; 
Œ˙ female genital mutilation; 
Œ˙ domestic violence; or 
Œ˙ sexual violence, 
except where the overseas visitor has travelled to the UK for the purpose of seeking that 
treatment. 
Exempt categories of person 
1.2 
The following categories of overseas visitor are exempt from charge: 
Those who have paid the health surcharge or are covered by transitional arrangements 
Any non-European Economic Area (EEA) national, subject to immigration control, is 
exempt from charge if one of the following applies to them while their leave to enter/remain 

is still valid: 
             
   Chapter 1. Exempt services and individuals 11 
Œ˙ they have paid the surcharge; or 
Œ˙ they are exempt from payment of the surcharge or have had the requirement waived 
or reduced, or have had part (but not all) of the surcharge refunded to them; or 
Œ˙ they would have been covered under one of the above, but for the fact that they 

applied for leave to enter or remain in the UK before the start of the surcharge (this 

will include those already resident here without inde˜nite leave to remain, and a small 

number of people arriving after 6 April 2015). 
A child born in the UK to an exempt person is also exempt from charge up to the age of 

three months. 
Those with an enforceable EU right to free healthcare 
Anyone insured for healthcare in another EEA member state or Switzerland and who, for 
medically necessary treatment, presents either a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) 

from that member state or a Provisional Replacement Certi˜cate (PRC) (see Introduction 

for de˜nitions) for that card, or, for elective treatment, presents an S2 document for that 

treatment (see Chapter 9 for more details). 
Any UK state pensioner resident in another EEA member state or Switzerland who has 

registered an S1 document in that state. The person™s spouse/civil partner and children 

under 18 are also exempt when lawfully visiting the UK with them, unless they are entitled 

to hold a non-UK EHIC (see Chapter 9 for more details). 
The spouse/civil partner and children under 18 of the above are also exempt when lawfully 

visiting the UK with them, unless they have an enforceable EU right in their own right.
4 Vulnerable patients and those detained 
Refugees, (those granted asylum, humanitarian protection or temporary protection by the 
UK). 
Asylum seekers, (those applying for asylum, humanitarian protection or temporary 

protection whose claims, including appeals, have not yet been determined). 
Individuals receiving support under section 95 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 

(the 1999 Act) from the Home Of˜ce. 
 Failed asylum seekers receiving support under section 4(2) of the 1999 Act from the 

Home Of˜ce or those receiving support under section 21 of the National Assistance Act 

1948 from a Local Authority. 
 Children who are looked after by a Local Authority. 
Victims, and suspected victims, of human traf˜cking, as determined by the UK Human 

Traf˜cking Centre or the Home Of˜ce, plus their spouse/civil partner and any children 

under 18 provided they are lawfully present in the UK. 
4˙ That is, the exemption only applies where EU law does not provide them with a right to an EHIC or PRC 
of their own Œ in practice this is likely to be only when their same-sex marriage or civil partnership is not 
recognised by the insuring member state. 
    
   
        12 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Anyone in whose case the Secretary of State for Health determines there to be 
exceptional humanitarian reasons to provide a free course of treatment. This exemption 

will also apply to their child and/or companion who is authorised to travel with them, for 

whom the exemption is limited to treatment that cannot await their return home. 
Anyone receiving compulsory treatment under a court order or who is detained in an NHS 

hospital or deprived of their liberty (e.g. under the Mental Health Act 1983 or the Mental 

Capacity Act 2005), who is exempt from charge for all treatment provided, in accordance 

with the court order, or for the duration of the detention. 
Prisoners and immigration detainees. 
UK Government employees and war pensioners 
UK armed forces members, plus their spouse/civil partner and children under 18 provided 
they are lawfully present in the UK (even if they are on a visit visa). 
UK Crown servants who were ordinarily resident prior to being posted overseas, plus their 

spouse/civil partner and children under 18 provided they are lawfully present in the UK. 
Employees of the British Council or Commonwealth War Graves Commission who were 

ordinarily resident in the UK prior to being posted overseas, plus their spouse/civil partner 

and children under 18 provided they are lawfully present in the UK. 
Those working or volunteering in employment overseas that is ˜nanced in part by the 

UK Government, who were ordinarily resident in the UK prior to being posted overseas, 

plus their spouse/civil partner and children under 18 provided they are lawfully present in 

the˛UK. 
Those receiving war pensions, war widows™ pensions or armed forces compensation 

scheme payments, plus their spouse/civil partner and children under 18 when these family 

members are lawfully visiting the UK with the recipient of this pension/payment. 
Those covered by reciprocal healthcare agreements, other international obligations 

and employees on UK-registered ships 
Anyone entitled to free healthcare in the UK under the terms of a reciprocal healthcare 
agreement with a country outside the EEA (usually limited to immediate medical 

treatment); see Chapter 10 for more details. 
Nationals of states that are contracting parties to the European Convention on Social and 

Medical Assistance or the European Social Charter and who are lawfully present here and 

without suf˜cient resources to pay. Free treatment is limited only to that which cannot wait 

until the overseas visitor can return home for it, and if the person did not come to the UK 

for the purpose of seeking treatment. 
NATO personnel, when the services required cannot readily be provided by armed forces 

medical services, plus their spouse/civil partner and children under 18 provided they are 

lawfully present in the UK. 
Employees on ships registered in the UK (even if they are here on a visit visa). 
          
 
  13 Chapter 2. The law in England˝ 
Statutory provisions 
2.1 
Section 175 of the National Health Service Act 2006 (the 2006 Act) allows the Secretary 
of State for Health to make regulations for the making and recovery of charges in relation to 
any person who is not ordinarily resident. It also gives the Secretary of State the power to 

calculate charges on any appropriate commercial basis. 
2.2 
The power to charge for NHS services in section 175 has so far only been used in relation 
to NHS hospital services. The Charging Regulations 2015 are made under those powers. 
The Charging Regulations 
2.3 
The Charging Regulations apply to England only, and replace previous regulations on 
charges to overseas visitors. A relevant NHS body must only make and recover charges when 

it determines that the patient is not entitled to free NHS hospital care, either on the basis of 

being ordinarily resident, or because the person is exempt from charges under the Charging 

Regulations. The obligation to undertake reasonable enquiries is an important part of the duty 

to make and recover charges from overseas visitors, and: 
ensure that patients who are not ordinarily resident in the UK are identi˜ed; 
assess liability for charges in accordance with the Charging Regulations; 
charge those liable to pay in accordance with the Charging Regulations; and 
recover payment from those liable to pay. 
2.4 
Relevant NHS bodies must undertake the following steps to identify and charge 
chargeable overseas visitors: 
Step 1: Determine if the patient is insured by another member state 
The UK is able to recover the cost of treatment provided to any patient who is insured by 
another European Economic Area (EEA) state or Switzerland, including those patients who are 

ordinarily resident in the UK or covered under another exemption category. All patients should 

be asked if they have a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC), S1 or S2 (see Introduction for 

de˜nitions). It is possible that a patient may be ordinarily resident in the UK but still continue to 

be insured by another state. Chapter 9 provides further information about identifying persons 

who have an EU right to free healthcare in the UK and the process for recovering the cost of 

their healthcare from the insuring member state. 
If the patient is not insured by another member state, proceed to step 2. 
       14 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Step 2: Determine if the patient is ordinarily resident in the UK 
All patients must be assessed against the test for ordinary residence in the UK. More 
information on how to determine whether a patient is ordinarily resident in the UK, including 

suggested questions to be asked, can be found in Chapter 3. If the patient is ordinarily 

resident in the UK they must not be charged. 
If the patient is not ordinarily resident in the UK, proceed to step 3. 

All relevant NHS bodies must comply with their legal duties when asking questions of 
treating patients. In particular, they must avoid discriminatory measures or practise 

racial pro˜ling to identify chargeable patients or cherry-pick which patients to 

question
. Further information on the legal duties of relevant NHS bodies is set out in 
Chapter 11. 
Step 3: Determine if the patient is covered by an exemption in the Charging 
Regulations or if the patient is liable for charges 
Patients who are not ordinarily resident in the UK and are not insured by another EEA state or 
Switzerland need to be assessed against the exemptions in the Charging Regulations. 
Step 4: Make and recover charges from chargeable overseas visitors 
Where treatment is non-urgent or elective, this means that the relevant NHS body should 
obtain payment or collect a deposit in advance of providing treatment. For more information 

about when and how to collect payment from chargeable patients, see Chapters 11 and 13. 
The Immigration Act 2014 
2.5 
The Immigration Act 2014 made changes to the charging rules. These changes are two
fold. First, section 39 of the Act changes the meaning of ‚ordinary residence™ in section˛175 

of the National Health Service Act, as it relates to non-EEA nationals who are subject to 

immigration control. Such individuals, in addition to satisfying the existing test for ordinary 

residence, must also now have inde˜nite leave to remain in the UK in order to be ordinarily 

resident here. This has effect from 6 April 2015. Chapter 3 provides more information about 

ordinary residence. 
2.6 
Second, section 38 of the Immigration Act authorises the Home Secretary to introduce 
an immigration health charge (known as the health surcharge) to be paid by non-EEA 
nationals, subject to immigration control, who apply to reside temporarily in the UK for six 

months or longer. The health surcharge will be paid at the same time as a visa applicant 

pays their visa application fee. There will be exemptions from paying the health surcharge for 

certain people, and the Home Secretary has the discretion to reduce, refund or waive all or 

part of the health surcharge. The health surcharge is payable for new visa applicants who 

make an application for a visa on or after 6 April 2015. Chapter 5 explains how to identify and 

process people who have paid, are exempt, or are waived from paying the health surcharge. 
            
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Chapter 2. The law in England 15 
Other statutory obligations that apply to relevant NHS bodies 
2.7 
In addition to their obligations under the Charging Regulations, relevant NHS bodies 
are also subject to other legal duties when exercising their functions to impose charges on 
overseas visitors. The duties set out below are key legal duties, with which relevant NHS 

bodies must comply, and which are relevant to the implementation of the charging rules. 

It is not an exhaustive list of legal duties to which relevant NHS bodies may be subject. 
The Human Rights Act 1998 
2.8 
Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is incorporated into UK 
law in the Human Rights Act 1998, prohibits discrimination against a person in the exercise 
of their rights under the Convention, on any ground such as sex, race, colour, language, 

religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, association with a national minority, 

property, birth or other status. Article 14 is not free-standing and can only be invoked in 

relation to other convention rights (e.g. Article 8 Œ the right to private and family life) which 

can be engaged when a person seeks healthcare. Not every difference in treatment is 

discriminatory, provided that it can be shown that there is a ‚reasonable and objective 

justi˜cation™ for the difference in question. 
The Equality Act 2010 
2.9 
Under the Equality Act 2010, relevant NHS bodies, as public authorities, have a general 
equality duty 
in the exercise of their functions to have due regard of the need to: 
eliminate discrimination, harassment and victimisation and other conduct prohibited by the 
Act; 
advance equality of opportunity between people who share a protected characteristic and 

those who do not; and 
foster good relations between people who share a protected characteristic and those who 

do not. 
2.10 
The protected characteristics are: 
age; 
disability; 
gender reassignment; 
marriage and civil partnership; 
pregnancy and maternity; 
race; 
religion or belief; 
sex; and 
sexual orientation. 
2.11 
The Equality Act 2010 prohibits: 
direct discrimination (section 13); 
                   
 16 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
indirect discrimination (section 19) unless the discrimination is a proportionate means of 
achieving a legitimate aim; 
harassment (section 26); and 
victimisation (section 27). 
2.12 
A relevant NHS body would be discriminating against a person if, because of a 
protected characteristic, it treated that person less favourably than it would treat others. 

For example, the use of racial pro˜ling (e.g. targeting a person for questioning as a potential 

overseas visitor on the basis of their being a racial minority) is discriminatory and is prohibited 

by the Equality Act. See Chapter 11 for further information about how to avoid discrimination. 
2.13 
A relevant NHS body must also take care that, when questioning or engaging with 
patients with a protected characteristic, the conduct of staff does not create an intimidating, 
hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for that patient. 
2.14 
Detailed guidance on the Equality Act 2010 is available at: 
www.gov.uk/equality-act-2010-guidance
. Overlap with other legal provisions 
2.15 
There are occasions where patients may be affected by other legal provisions: 
Injuries as a result of criminal actions:
 in these cases, the patient may be eligible 
to claim compensation from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority. It will be for 

the patient to pursue such a claim and, although the relevant NHS body can advise 

the patient to contact the Authority, the possibility of compensation does 
not
 affect the 
patient™s liability for charges as an overseas visitor. The recovery of NHS charges from the 

patient should not be suspended pending the outcome of a claim. 
Injuries as a result of a road traf˜c accident and personal injury:
 the requirement 

on insurers to pay a relevant NHS body for services provided to an overseas visitor, 

where charges have been made and recovered for those services through the Charging 

Regulations, is zero. This provision was inserted with effect from 1 April 2009, and now 

appears in the Personal Injuries (NHS Charges) (Amounts) Regulations 2015 (SI 2015/295) 

made under the Health and Social healthcare (Community Health and Standards) Act 

2003. 
Regulation 2 Œ Interpretation 
2.16 
This regulation provides de˜nitions of the words and terms used in the Charging 
Regulations. The de˜nitions which will be most useful on a daily basis are as follows: 
Child
 Œ for the purposes of the Charging Regulations, a child is someone under the age 
of 18. 
Overseas visitor
 Œ means any person of any nationality not ordinarily resident in the UK. 
Parental responsibility
 Œ has the meaning given in section 3 of the Children Act 1989. A 
person with parental responsibility has all the rights, duties, powers, responsibilities and 
            Chapter 2. The law in England 17 
authority which by law a parent of a child has in relation to the child and their property. 
This does not include a person who is responsible for the child on a temporary basis, 

such as a teacher. This will be a matter of fact in each case. 
Relevant services
 Œ means accommodation, services or facilities provided under the 
National Health Service Act 2006, other than primary dental services, primary medical 

services or primary ophthalmic services, or equivalent services provided under that Act. 
Treatment the need for which arose during the visit
 Œ means treatment needed where 
the diagnosis of a condition is made when the ˜rst symptoms arise during a visit to the 

UK. It also applies where, in the opinion of a doctor or dentist employed by the relevant 

NHS body, treatment is needed quickly to prevent a pre-existing condition increasing in 

severity, e.g. dialysis. It does not include routine monitoring of an existing condition such 

as diabetes, nor does it cover treatment that the overseas visitor travelled to the UK for the 

purpose of seeking, or treatment that can await the overseas visitor™s return home. 
Those people covered by EU Regulations, however, are entitled to 
‚all medically necessary 

treatment™ for the duration of their visit (more details can be found at Chapter 9). Those 

covered by reciprocal healthcare agreements are all subject to their own speci˜c terms 

(more details can be found at Chapter 10). 
Regulation 3 Œ The making and recovery of charges 
2.17 
This regulation states 
when
 and 
how
 a relevant NHS body should make a charge for 
treatment and how it should recover the money; it places a 
legal obligation
 on an NHS 
body to determine whether the Charging Regulations apply to an overseas visitor. Where a 

person is not ordinarily resident, the relevant NHS body must make reasonable enquiries into 

the circumstances of that person to determine whether they meet one of the categories of 

exemption or are liable to pay charges. The enquiries must be reasonable with regard to all 

the circumstances of the individual case, including the person™s illness or injury. If the patient 

is chargeable, this regulation 
requires
 the relevant NHS body to make and recover a charge 
for any treatment provided. There is no option, nor is there the authority, to waive the charge 

on the part of the NHS body. There are limited circumstances when persons granted asylum 

or temporary protection or humanitarian protection, or persons who are identi˜ed as victims 

of human traf˜cking, must be treated as exempt for services they received before acquiring 

that status. In such cases, any prior charges made must not be pursued, or if charges were 

recovered they must be repaid. More information can be found at Chapter 3. 
2.18 
Where a patient is claiming an exemption from charges, it is their responsibility to prove 
they are entitled to that treatment without charge. The relevant NHS body is entitled to ask 
for documentary evidence to support a claim for free treatment. However, they must take into 

consideration the individual circumstances of each case, and that it will be easier to provide 

evidence in some circumstances than in others. 
2.19 
If, in the light of its enquiries, the relevant NHS body decides that the person is not 
eligible for treatment without charge, or that the person has not provided suf˜cient evidence 
to support their claim, then the relevant NHS body must levy a charge and take all reasonable 

measures to recover it from that person. 
      18 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
2.20 
The relevant NHS body must give the person paying the charge a receipt for the amount 
paid. 
2.21 
Certain categories of overseas visitors who are receiving a course of free treatment 
on the basis that they are exempt from charge, cannot be charged for the remainder of that 
particular course of treatment if their exempt status changes to chargeable part-way through 

the course of treatment. It 
does not
 apply to those who are exempt under Regulation˛10˛or˛11 
(surcharge and transitional arrangements) or Regulation 25(3) (children born to them in 

the UK). It only applies if the overseas visitor has been properly assessed as exempt from 

charge to begin with, and where the overseas visitor did not provide fraudulent or misleading 

information to the relevant NHS body. It applies 
only
 until the overseas visitor ˜rst leaves 
the UK. It is a clinical decision as to what constitutes a particular course of treatment. This 

provision (Regulation 3(5)) is sometimes referred to as the ‚
easement clause
™. 
Regulation 4 Œ Liability for charges 
2.22 
The person liable to pay charges for treatment provided to an overseas visitor will in 
most cases be the overseas visitor themselves. There are only three exceptions: 
 where the overseas visitor is present in the UK in the course of employment on board 
a ship, the liable person is the owner of that ship (note that this applies only to non-UK 

registered ships; those employed on UK-registered ships are exempt from charges Œ see 

Chapter 10); 
 for air crew present in the UK in the course of employment on an aircraft, the liable person 

is the employer of that person; and 
 for a child to whom no exemption applies, the liable person is the person with parental 

responsibility for that child. 
Regulation 5 Œ Repayments 
2.23 
There are certain circumstances where a relevant NHS body must repay charges 
recovered under the Charging Regulations when it receives a claim for repayment. If the 

person was not a chargeable overseas visitor at the time the services were provided, or if 

they did not receive the services. There are also limited circumstances when repayment must 

be made in respect of charges recovered from refugees or victims of human traf˜cking, for 

which see paragraph 2.24. The person making a claim for repayment must provide a receipt, 

a signed declaration in support of the claim, and such evidence in support of the claim which 

the relevant NHS body requires. Where these conditions are met, any charges recovered 

must be repaid to the patient. The trust should alert the relevant commissioner to ensure  any 

non-EEA incentive is repaid and costs for a charge-exempt overseas visitor are applied. 
      Chapter 2. The law in England 19 
Regulation 6 Œ Recovery of charges in respect of refugees and victims 
of traf˜cking 
2.24 
There are limited circumstances in which a relevant NHS body must cancel or repay 
charges made, or recovered, for treatment provided to an overseas visitor who goes on to: 
acquire refugee status (i.e. exempt under Regulation 15(a)); or 
be identi˜ed as a victim, or suspected victim, of human traf˜cking (i.e. exempt under 
Regulation 16). This provision is set out in more detail in Chapter 7 under the relevant 

sections for refugees and traf˜cking victims. 
  Changes to exemptions from charge to begin from 6 April 2015˝
Exemptions which have not changed and continue from 6 April 2015
Anyone entitled to services under or by virtue of EU Regulations, an EU agreement or other EU right (e.g. by having an 
EHIC)Anyone covered by a reciprocal healthcare agreement with the UK
Anyone granted asylum or temporary or humanitarian protection in the UK (e.g. refugees)

Anyone who has applied for asylum or temporary or humanitarian protection, until their application, including appeals, is 
decided (e.g. asylum seekers)Serving NATO personnel
Anyone who receives a UK war pension, war widows™ pension or armed forces compensation scheme payment

Members of the regular and reserve forces

Employees on ships (but the exemption for family members has been removed)

Anyone lawfully in the UK and covered under the European Social Charter or European Convention on Social and Medical 
Assistance with insuf˜cient resources to pay (‚needs arising™ treatment only)
Anyone who is detained in prison or by the Immigration Authorities in the UK (but the exemption for family members hasbeen removed) 
20 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
         Chapter 2. The law in England 21 
Expanded exemptions from 6 April 2015
Category of person Previous exemption up until 
6 April 2015 Exemption as of 6 April 2015Anyone receiving s4 

or s95 Home Of˜ce 

support (Immigration
and Asylum Act 1999) Exempt from charge for all treatment 
(i) To include all failed asylum seekers who receive s21 
support from a Local Authority (National Assistance 

Act 1948)(ii) To limit the exemption in respect of s4 recipients 
to failed asylum seekers only (s4(2)), as originally
intended; s95 recipients unchanged
(iii) S95 recipients unchanged
Children taken into 

Local Authority care 
Exempt from charge for all treatment. 

The exemption applies to children 

in Local Authority healthcare (those 

children who are the subject of a 

healthcare order by a court) 
Expanded to cover children accommodated by the 

Local Authority in the exercise of any social service 

functions (known as ‚looked after children™ in the 

Children Act 1989) 
UK state pensioners
residing in the EEA 

or Switzerland if they
have lived lawfully
in the UK, or been
employed as a
Crown servant, for 10 

continuous years or
more (‚needs arising™ 

treatment only) 
Exempt from charge if the need 

arises during visits to the UK (i) Exemption removed and replaced with a new 

exemption for UK state pensioners living in EEA
countries or Switzerland which includes all care, 

including elective. UK state pensioners living in EEA
countries and with an S1 document registered in 

that country will be exempt under a new exemption
which replicates the effect of the UK joining Annex˛IV 

of EC Regulation 883/2004 and extends the
entitlement of UK state pensioners residing in the 

EEA to elective healthcare on the NHS in England. 

There is no requirement for former residence or 

employment, merely receipt of a state pension
(ii) The exemption is removed in respect of UK state 
pensioners living outside the EEA/Switzerland    22 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Limited exemptions from 6 April 2015
Category Previous exemption up until 
6 April 2015 Exemption as of 6 April 2015Exceptional
humanitarian reasons 

(determined by the
Secretary of State only 

with qualifying criteria) Exempt from charge for approved 

course of treatment 
The regulation has been redrafted to take account of 

the immigration route that such a person would take to 

enter the UK Government workers 

(Crown servants, 

UK Government 

˜nanced employment,
British Council and
Commonwealth War 

Graves Commission
staff) who are required 

to work abroad 
Exempt from charge for all treatment 
Introduce a requirement to have been ordinarily resident 

in the UK prior to going overseas to take up such a post Anyone who is
detained in prison
or by Immigration
Authorities in the UK They and their family members
exempt from charge for all treatment 
Family members of prisoners/detainees will no longer be
exempt from charge 
An employee on a ship
registered in the UK 
They and their family members
exempt from charge for all treatment 
Family members of employees on ships will no longer be
exempt from charge 
    Chapter 2. The law in England 23 
Removed exemptions from 6 April 2015
Category Previous exemption up until 
6 April 2015 Exemption as of 6 April 2015UK state pensioners
residing 6 months in 

UK/less than 6 months
in EEA country or
Switzerland, but not
registered as resident 

there 
Exempt from charge for all treatment 
Removed (persons falling under this category are 

considered ordinarily resident in the UK and so are 

already entitled to free healthcare on that basis) 
Diplomatic agents
posted to the UK Exempt from charge for all treatment 
Removed (diplomats posted to the UK are considered 

ordinarily resident in the UK and so are already entitled 

to free healthcare on that basis)
Former UK residents 

of 10 continuous
years or more who 

are now working 

abroad (including self-

employed) Exempt from charge for all treatment 

for up to ˜ve years Removed Former UK residents 

(with 10 years as a UK
resident) now living 

in EEA countries,
Switzerland or a
Reciprocal Health 

healthcare Agreements 

country. 
Exempt from charge if the need 

arises during visits to the UK Removed. Should rely on non-UK EHIC or reciprocal 

agreement instead 
Missionaries
acting overseas
for organisations
established in the UK Exempt from charge for all treatment 
Removed. Some will still be ordinarily resident here and 

entitled to free healthcare on that basis 
   24 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Removed exemptions from 6 April 2015
Category Previous exemption up until 
6 April 2015 Exemption as of 6 April 2015The family members
(spouse/civil partner
and dependent
children) of exempt 

groups 
Exempt on similar basis to main
exempt overseas visitor. For some 

groups the exemption applies to 

the family member even if the main
person is not in the UK with them, for
others only if the person is in the UK
on a lawful and permanent basis with
them Removed for groups where the exemption is 

super˚uous. We will retain the exemption for those 

not required to be here permanently, i.e. armed forces 

members, Crown servants etc. and victims of traf˜cking. 

Therefore, no real change in practice to most family 

members, except for family members of prisoners/
detainees and employees on ships, the exemption for
whom is removed 
    Chapter 2. The law in England 25 
Exemptions replaced by the immigration health surcharge as of 6 April 2015
Category Previous exemption up until 
6 April 2015 Exemption as of 6 April 201512 months™ lawful
residence in the UK 
Exempt from charge for all treatment 
Replaced Taking up permanent 

residence in the UK 
Exempt from charge for all treatment 
Replaced Working in the UK for 

a UK-based employer Exempt from charge for all treatment 
Replaced Being self-employed in
the UK Exempt from charge for all treatment 
Replaced Volunteering in the 

UK for a voluntary
organisation providing 

services similar to
health or social service Exempt from charge for all treatment 
Replaced Studying full time
in the UK on a
course of at least 6
months™ duration or
substantially funded by
the UK Government 
Exempt from charge for all treatment 
Replaced    26 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
New exemptions as of 6 April 2015Category Previous exemption up until 
6 April 2015 Exemption as of 6 April 2015Victims of violence 

(relating to domestic 

violence, sexual
violence, torture 

and female genital
mutilation (FGM)) Does not exist. Currently, all NHS 

secondary healthcare provided to 

chargeable overseas visitors subject
to such violence is chargeable To exempt speci˜c treatment provided to victims 

of violence. This will function similarly to current 

exemptions for infectious diseases. Only the treatment 

needed to treat conditions caused by the violence is 

exempt from charge, rather than all treatment for the 

patient Anyone who has paid,
or who is exempt
from paying, the 

immigration health
charge or for whom
the charge is waived,
reduced or partially 

refunded, while their 

leave to remain is 

extant, including for
any children born 

to that person for a
period of 3 months Does not currently exist 
Exempt from charge for all treatment. Implements 

the health surcharge by providing entitlement to NHS 

healthcare on the same basis as an ordinarily resident 

patient Migrants who apply
for leave to enter
or remain for over 

6 months prior to
the surcharge being 

introduced but who 

cannot pay the
surcharge until their 

next application for
leave Does not currently exist 
This is a transitional arrangement for individuals who
made a visa application before the surcharge came into 

force, but who would have paid it had it been in force at 

the time           27 Chapter 3. Ordinary residence˝ 
3.1 
The UK™s healthcare system is a residence-based one. This contrasts with many other 
countries which have insurance-based healthcare systems. 
3.2 
The test of residence that the UK uses to determine entitlement to free NHS healthcare 
is known as ‚ordinary residence™, as this is the term used in the National Health Service 
Act 2006. An overseas visitor is de˜ned in the Charging Regulations as anyone who is not 

ordinarily resident in the˛UK. 
3.3 
The concept of
 ordinary residence 
should not be confused with permanent residence, 
usual residence, habitual residence or other phrases denoting residence in a place used in 
other domestic or European legislation. This chapter explains how the concept of ordinary 

residence should be applied to British citizens, European Economic Area (EEA)/Swiss 

nationals and non-EEA nationals. 
3.4 
In practice, it may not be necessary to consider the question of ordinary residence, for 
instance where a patient presents a valid non-UK European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) or 
Provisional Replacement Certi˜cate (PRC). In this case it will already be clear that the patient 

is entitled to free medically necessary care. But where that is not the case, the question of 

ordinary residence will be the most fundamental issue to resolve when operating the charging 

rules as a whole. This is because 
if a patient is classed as ordinarily resident in the UK 

then the Charging Regulations cannot apply to them
, even if the patient has only been 
in the UK for a few days or weeks.
 The Secretary of State has no powers to charge 

someone for NHS hospital treatment who is ordinarily resident in the UK. 
Meaning of ordinary residence 
3.5 
A person is 
not
 ordinarily resident in the UK simply because they have British nationality; 
hold a British passport; are registered with a GP; have an NHS number; own property in the 

UK; or have paid (or are currently paying) National Insurance contributions and taxes in the 

UK. 
3.6 
‚Ordinarily resident™ is not de˜ned in the National Health Service Act 2006. The concept 
was considered by the House of Lords in 1982 in the case of 
Shah v Barnet LBC
5 and 
although the case being considered was concerned with the meaning of ordinary residence 
in the context of the Education Acts, the decision is recognised as having a wider application 

and applies to the National Health Service Act 2006 and the Charging Regulations. 
5 Shah v Barnet London Borough Council and other appeals [1983] 1 All ER 226. 
    ˚          28 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
3.7 
When assessing the ordinary residence status of a person seeking free NHS services, a 
relevant NHS body will need to consider whether they are: 
living lawfully in the United Kingdom voluntarily and for settled purposes as part 
of the regular order of their life for the time being. 
3.8 
The concept of ‚settled purpose™ has been developed by the courts: 
There must be an identi˜able purpose for their residence here, there can be one 
purpose or several, and it may be for a limited period. The purpose for living 

in the UK must have a suf˜cient degree of continuity to be properly described 

as ‚settled™. 
Ordinary residence can be of long or short duration. 
3.9 
A person can be ordinarily resident in more than one country at once. 
3.10 
It is important to note that, since 6 April 2015, non-EEA nationals who are subject to 
immigration control are now no longer able to be considered as ordinarily resident in the UK, 
unless they also have the immigration status of ‚inde˜nite leave to remain™ (ILR) at the time 

of treatment; or, in other words, have the right to live here permanently. They must also still 

meet the other requirements of the test set out at paragraph 3.11; having ILR on its own is not 

suf˜cient, since that person may no longer be residing in the UK on a properly settled basis, 

and may only be visiting. 
Determining ordinary residence 
3.11 
Whether a person is ordinarily resident in the UK is essentially a three-fold test (four-fold 
for non-EEA nationals) assessing whether that individual: 
(i) is lawfully in the UK; 
(ii) 
is here voluntarily Œ it will be rare for a person not to be in the UK voluntarily; and 
(iii) 
is properly settled here for the time being; and 
(iv) 
in the case of non-EEA nationals subject to immigration control, has ILR in the UK. 
Being lawfully in the UK 

3.12 
British citizens have automatic right of abode in the UK, so are always here lawfully. EEA 
nationals are almost always here lawfully. Non-EEA nationals usually need permission to be 
in the UK, except in some circumstances when they are not subject to immigration control, 

e.g.
˛due to their relationship to an EEA national who is resident here, or when a diplomat. 
Being properly settled in the UK for the time being 
3.13 
While non-EEA nationals must also have the immigration status of ILR (the 
right
 to live 
here on a permanent basis), there is no requirement for any person to actually be living here 
permanently or inde˜nitely in order to meet the ordinary residence test. There is no minimum 

period of residence that confers ordinarily resident status. 
      Chapter 3. Ordinary residence 29 
In the past, the Department of Health has suggested that someone who has been here for 
less than six months is less likely to meet the ‚settled™ criterion of the ordinary residence 

description, but this is only a guideline. For a British citizen or EEA national (and for a non-

EEA national with ILR, or a non-EEA national not subject to immigration control), it is perfectly 

possible to be ordinarily resident here from the day of arrival, when it is clear that that person 

has, upon arrival, taken up settled residence. In each case, it is for the relevant NHS body to 

decide whether the criteria within the ordinary residence description are met. A tool has also 

been developed to assist them in considering whether an individual is properly settled in the 

UK in order to establish ordinary residence status. It can be found as part of the Overseas 

Visitor Manager (OVM) toolbox available via these links: 

www.gov.uk/government/publications/help-for-nhs-to-recover-costs-of-care-from-visitors-and

migrants 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-on-overseas-visitors-hospital-charging
regulations 
3.14 
A person who is ordinarily resident will be so in their own right, and it is not transferable 
to other family members (except in certain circumstances regarding children Œ see paragraph 
below). Therefore, if a spouse or civil partner of someone who is ordinarily resident here 

normally lives overseas and requires treatment during a visit to the UK, they will not be 

ordinarily resident or automatically entitled to free treatment. The relevant NHS body must 

establish whether the ordinarily resident person™s spouse or civil partner meets one of the 

categories of exemption in their own right, or is liable to be charged. 
3.15 
Where a child who normally lives overseas is visiting an ordinarily resident parent, they 
can take on the ordinarily resident status of their parent if the parent can show that the child 
normally lives with both parents, e.g. on a shared residence order. 
Questions and answers 
Q: Are those acting as missionaries or volunteers overseas ordinarily resident in the UK? 
A: This will depend on their circumstances. A person can be absent from the UK for a 
temporary or ˜nite period and still be ordinarily resident here. Staff, workers and volunteers 
for UK charity and missionary agencies, and their family members, may not intend to live 

overseas inde˜nitely, and may maintain a base in the UK to which they return regularly or 

periodically between assignments. This base may be their own home or the home of close 

friends or family. A letter from the UK-based organisation for which they have gone overseas, 

con˜rming that their assignment or series of assignments is temporary, may also be useful. 

Appearing settled in another country does not prevent them also being properly settled here, 

since a person can be ordinarily resident in more than one country at once. On the other 

hand, if there are no indicators that the person remains, or has ever been, properly settled 

here, then they will not pass the ordinary residence test and will be chargeable if no other 

exemption applies to them. See also the exemption for those in employment funded by the 

UK Government, as this may apply to some missionaries or volunteers overseas. 
  30 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Q: What about someone who works overseas? 
A: Again, this will depend on their circumstances. A person whose work takes them out of 
the UK for the majority of the time but whose home, which they return to between trips, is still 
here will still be ordinarily resident here. This would apply to, for example, a pilot or member 

of cabin crew. However, if they are working and settled in one place overseas and only spend 

a few weeks of the year in the UK visiting family, then they are not likely to be properly settled 

here, in which case they would not be ordinarily resident here. If some people are posted 

overseas temporarily as part of their contract and maintain a base in the UK that they return 

to even if only on short stays, they may well still be ordinarily resident here. Assessing whether 

someone maintains ordinary residence in the UK will require consideration of their family and 

other relationships with people in the UK, ˜nancial, property and other connections to the UK, 

in addition to the time they actually spend in the UK in any given year. 
Q: I have a patient who lives both here and in Spain, spending most of their time there. Where 
are they ordinarily resident? 
A: A person can be ordinarily resident in more than one country at once. As long as they 
are properly settled here, despite spending more time in their other place of residence, they 
will meet the ordinary residence test. There is no requirement that the time be equally split 

between the UK and another country in order to maintain ordinary residence in the UK. Where 

a person has lived in more than one country for several years, consideration needs to be 

given to whether there is a pattern of regular trips to the UK over the years that demonstrates 

a suf˜cient degree of continuity to establish ordinary residence in the UK. The length and 

number of trips to the UK, family and other relationships with people in the UK, ˜nancial, 

property and other connections to the UK will all be relevant factors in determining if the 

person is ordinarily resident in the UK despite spending time living in another country. If they 

live only in Spain, and are only here as a visitor, not as a resident, then they will not meet the 

ordinary residence test. 
Q: Can a non-EEA national without ILR be ordinarily resident in the UK? 
A: A non-EEA national without ILR can only pass the ordinary residence test if they are not 
subject to immigration control, e.g. they are diplomat posted to the UK, or have a right of 
residence here by virtue of their relationship with an EEA national who is resident here. 
Q: Can someone studying overseas still be considered ordinarily resident here? 
A: Yes, someone studying temporarily overseas can still be ordinarily resident here, if they plan 
to return to the UK after their studies have ceased. This will mean that they are entitled to free 
NHS healthcare when back in the UK. However, if it is not their intention to return to live in the 

UK and they have in fact moved their residence overseas and are simply visiting the UK, then 

they are unlikely to be ordinarily resident here. 
                   31 Chapter 4. Detailed list of services which are 
exempt from charges 
4.1 
Some NHS services are free to 
everyone
, even if the patient would be liable to pay for 
other services. Regulations 8 and 9 set out these services, including de˜ning key terms. 
4.2 
Please note that despite these services being free to the patient, in the case of insured 
visitors or students from the European Economic Area (EEA), the UK can still be reimbursed 
by the relevant EEA member state for having provided these individuals with medically 

necessary treatment, if the patient has a non-UK European Health Insurance Card (EHIC), or 

PRC for the EHIC. Relevant NHS bodies are encouraged to record and report EHICs/PRCs 

whenever possible for such patients accessing ‚exempt™ services. More on this can be found 

at Chapter 9. 
4.3 
The current list of exempt services comprises: 
accident and emergency (A&E) services
 provided at an NHS hospital
6 (whether 
provided at an A&E department or elsewhere in the NHS hospital, e.g. urgent healthcare 
centre) but not including services provided after the overseas visitor is accepted as an 

inpatient or at a follow-up outpatient appointment. So, 
where emergency treatment is 

given after admission to the NHS hospital, e.g. intensive healthcare or coronary 

care, it is chargeable to a non-exempt overseas visitor
; some walk-in centres provide primary healthcare services rather than A&E-type services; 

overseas visitors cannot be charged for such services either; 
services provided other than in an NHS hospital or by a person who is employed to 

work for, or on behalf of, an NHS hospital. 
This means that services provided in the 

community will be chargeable only where the staff providing them are employed by 

or on behalf of an NHS hospital
; family planning services
, which means services that supply contraceptive products and 
devices to prevent pregnancy Œ termination of an established pregnancy is not a method 

of contraception or family planning; and 
the diagnosis and treatment of the conditions speci˜ed in Schedule 1 to the Charging 

Regulations which is necessary to protect the wider 
public health
. This exemption from 
6˙ ‚Hospital™ means: 
(i)
 any institution for the reception and treatment of persons suffering from illness; 
(ii)
 any maternity home; and 

(iii)
 any institution for the reception and treatment of persons during convalescence or persons requiring 

medical rehabilitation, and includes clinics, dispensaries and outpatient departments maintained 

in connection with any such home or institution, and ‚hospital accommodation™ must be construed 

accordingly. 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 32 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
charge will apply to the diagnosis of the condition, even if the outcome is a negative result. 
It will also apply to any treatment provided for a suspected speci˜ed condition, up to the 

point that it is negatively diagnosed. It does not apply to any secondary illness that may 

be present even if treatment is necessary in order to successfully treat the condition. 
4.4 
The conditions to which the exemption applies are: 
acute encephalitis 
acute poliomyelitis 
anthrax 
botulism 
brucellosis 
cholera 
diphtheria 
enteric fever (typhoid and paratyphoid fever) 
food poisoning 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS) 
human immunode˜ciency virus (HIV) 
infectious bloody diarrhoea 
invasive group A streptococcal disease and scarlet fever 
invasive meningococcal disease (meningococcal meningitis, meningococcal septicaemia 

and other forms of invasive disease) 
Legionnaires™ Disease 
leprosy 
leptospirosis 
malaria 
measles 
mumps 
pandemic in˚uenza (de˜ned as the ‚Pandemic Phase™), or in˚uenza that might become 

pandemic (de˜ned as the ‚Alert Phase™) in the 
World Health Organization™s Pandemic 

In˜uenza Risk Management Interim Guidance 
plague 
rabies 
rubella 
severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) 
smallpox 
     
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
  Chapter 4. Detailed list of services which are exempt from charges 33 
tetanus 
tuberculosis 
typhus 
viral haemorrhagic fever (which includes Ebola) 
viral hepatitis 
whooping cough 
yellow fever 
4.5 
The exemption also applies to the diagnosis and treatment of 
sexually transmitted 
infections
. 4.6 
The exemption for victims of violence covers the treatment of conditions directly 
attributable to certain types of violence, namely: 

torture; 
female genital mutilation; 
domestic violence; and 
sexual violence. 
4.7 
The conditions include physical or mental illness, or an acute or chronic condition. The 
exemption applies wherever the violence has been experienced, provided that the overseas 
visitor has not travelled to the United Kingdom for the purpose of seeking that treatment. 

Any other treatment that they need that is not directly attributable to that violence is not free, 

unless covered by another exemption. More information on this exemption can be found in 

Chapter 7. 
Question and answers 
Q: Is emergency treatment free to all? 
A: No. Only A&E services that are provided prior to an overseas visitor being admitted as an 
inpatient are free to all. Inpatient services and outpatient appointments are chargeable. 
Q: Can I ask European visitors and students for EHICs for A&E services? 
A: Yes, even though you cannot charge any patient directly for A&E services, you should 
still seek to record and report EHICs wherever possible to allow the UK to be reimbursed by 
the relevant member state for providing this treatment. This is also true of the other exempt 

services, e.g. for infectious or sexually transmitted diseases. If they do not present an EHIC 

you cannot then charge the patient for these exempt services. 
   34 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Q: Can I charge someone for A&E services while on an observation ward? 
A: No, patients kept in observation wards, or similar, attached to A&E departments are usually 
still under the healthcare of the A&E consultant and should not be charged unless and until 
they are formally admitted to NHS hospital as an inpatient. 
Q: Is a termination of pregnancy considered to be a ‚family planning service™? 
A: No. A termination of pregnancy is not a method of contraception or family planning so does 
not fall under that exemption. 

Q: I provide NHS community services, including to some overseas visitors. Should I be 
charging them? 
A: If these are community services that are provided outside the NHS hospital setting, then 
whether you can charge overseas visitors using them depends on who employs the person 
providing the community services. If an NHS hospital employs such staff, or the staff are 

working under the direction of an NHS hospital, then the Charging Regulations apply and 

overseas visitors must be charged for these community services, unless they are covered 

by an exemption from charge. However, if staff providing the community services are not 

employed, or directed by, an NHS hospital, then no charge can be made to overseas visitors. 
Q: Clinicians are treating a patient for TB. Do I charge for other conditions the patient has? 
A: Yes, unless treatment of the other condition is also an exempt service, or the patient is 
exempt from charges under another exemption, then you must charge for the treatment of the 
other condition, even if the other condition impacts on the treatment of the TB. 
Q: An overseas visitor says they have forgotten to bring their antiretroviral (ARV) therapy for 
their HIV. Do we provide it free of charge? 
A: HIV is a disease for which treatment is free on public health grounds. Guidance to the NHS 
advises that in such circumstances the supply of free ARVs should be limited to an amount 
that will last until the overseas visitor returns home or has arranged for ARVs to be sent to 

them. This guidance is available at 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/hiv-treatment-for

overseas-visitors-in-england-from-1-october-2012
. Q: Do I need to assess patients attending sexually transmitted diseases clinics for charges? 
A: The diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted infections is free to all, so charging 
issues will arise less often in those settings. Regulations prevent the disclosure of any 

identifying disease other than to a medical practitioner (or to a person employed under the 

direction of a medical practitioner). This applies to information in connection with, and for the 

purpose of, the treatment of the patient and/or the prevention of the spread of the disease. 

However, this does not mean that sexually transmitted diseases clinics do not have to apply 

the Charging Regulations or should not allow Overseas Visitor Managers (OVMs) access to 

do their job. Overseas visitors being provided with treatment for sexually transmitted diseases 

will still be liable for charges for other types of treatment unless another exemption applies, 

so it can still be helpful for awareness of charging issues to be raised in these settings. 
    Chapter 4. Detailed list of services which are exempt from charges 35 
Reimbursement claims can be made to other EEA member states for providing treatment for 
sexually transmitted infections whenever the patient has a valid European Health Insurance 

Card (EHIC), so sexually transmitted diseases clinics can be encouraged to take down these 

details and provide OVMs with them. There would be no question of treatment being charged, 

or delayed, if no EHIC was presented. 
Q: Where can I go to ˜nd more information about HIV and sexual health treatment to pass on 
to patients? 
A: Please use the Terrence Higgins Trust™s helpline, THT Direct: 
www.tht.org.uk/our-charity/Get-help-now/THT-Direct 
         36 Chapter 5. The health surcharge: how to 
deal with and recognise someone who has 

paid or is exempt from paying 
Background 
5.1 
This chapter is about non-European Economic Area (EEA) individuals applying to reside 
in the UK for longer than six months. It is not about those coming to the UK for six months or 
less (except for those falling within the ‚skills transfer™ category), those on visitor visas, or those 

coming to the UK from the EEA. 
5.2 
From April 2015, an immigration health charge (referred to in this guidance as the 
health 
surcharge
) will be payable by non-EEA nationals who apply for a visa to enter or remain in 
the UK for more than six months. People with inde˜nite leave to remain in the UK and those 
not subject to immigration control (e.g. diplomats posted to the UK) are not liable to pay the 

surcharge, but may be ordinarily resident and entitled to free NHS healthcare on that basis 

(see Chapter 3 for information about ordinary residence). 
5.3 
Payment of the health surcharge entitles the payer to NHS-funded healthcare on the 
same basis as someone who is ordinarily resident. They are entitled to free NHS services, 
including NHS hospital care, except for services for which a UK ordinary resident must also 

pay, such as dentistry and prescriptions in England. 
5.4 
Payment of the health surcharge is mandatory when making an immigration application, 
subject to exemptions for certain categories of people and the discretion of the Home 
Secretary to reduce, waive or refund all or part of a surcharge payment. Most of these groups 

also receive NHS-funded healthcare on the same basis as an ordinarily resident person. 
5.5 
The exemptions to paying the health surcharge are as follows: 
(i)  persons who apply for entry clearance where the leave to enter is for six months or less; 
(ii) 
 persons who apply for entry clearance under the Immigration Rules as visitors; 
(iii) 
 those who apply for entry clearance or leave to remain under the Immigration Rules as a 
Tier 2 intra-company migrant transfer and their dependants; 
(iv) 
 a child who applies for leave to remain and is looked after by a Local Authority (or a 

Local Authority or Authority in other devolved administrations); 
(v) 
 a person, and their dependants, who makes an application for leave to remain which 

relates to a claim: 
Œ  for asylum or humanitarian protection; or 
Œ  that their removal from the UK would be contrary to Article 3 of the European 
Convention on Human Rights; 
            
  Chapter 5. The health surcharge: how to deal with and recognise someone who has paid or is exempt from paying 37 
(vi) 
 a person who applies for leave to remain as a victim of human traf˜cking and their 
dependants; 
(vii) 
 a person who applies for leave to remain under the Home Of˜ce Destitution Domestic 

Violence Concession policy and their dependants; 
(viii) 
 a dependant of a member of HM forces, or of a member of a force who is exempt from 

immigration control under section 8(4)(b) and (c) of the Immigration Act 1971, when 

applying for entry clearance or leave to remain as a dependant; 
(ix) 
 a person granted entry clearance or leave to remain pursuant to an EU obligation; 
(x)  nationals of Australia or New Zealand; or 
(xi) 
 a British Overseas Territories citizen who is resident in the Falklands Islands. 
5.6 The health surcharge is £200 per annum per applicant, with a discounted rate of £150 
per annum for students and their dependants. The health surcharge will be collected by the 

Home Of˜ce alongside the immigration application fee.˛The health surcharge must be paid for 

each applicant and for each dependant included in a visa application. This ensures that 

non-EEA migrants make a proportionate ˜nancial contribution to the NHS.˛All surcharge 

income will be delivered back to the NHS. 
5.7 
The health surcharge must be paid in full for each year, or part of a year, that the 
applicant is applying to stay for. Failure to pay a health surcharge (except when an exemption 
from paying it applies, or when the Home Secretary waives, refunds or reduces the surcharge) 

will result in an immigration application being refused or considered invalid, or, if leave has 

been granted, that leave will be cancelled. 
Exemption from NHS charges 
5.8 
The Regulations provide for an exemption from NHS charges for persons who: 
have paid the health surcharge; 
are exempt from paying the health surcharge (see paragraph 5.4 for a full list of 

exemptions), except where they are exempt by virtue of being a visitor to the UK or as a 

result of applying for leave to enter for six months or less; these persons are still liable for 

charges 
the Home Secretary has exercised discretion to: 
Œ˙ waive the health surcharge; 
Œ˙ reduce the health surcharge; or 
Œ˙ refund part, but not all, of the health surcharge. 
5.9 
The exemption from NHS charges applies to the period of leave to enter or remain in the 
UK granted to the person. Once that leave expires or is curtailed, the person becomes liable for 
charges from then on including where the person is part-way through a course of treatment. 
         38 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
5.10 
Individuals coming to the UK for six months or less as a visitor will be liable for charges 
under the Charging Regulations unless another exemption from charges applies. The only 
exception to this is a sub-category of intra-company transfers known as ‚skills transfer™, where 

leave is only granted for a maximum of six months. The ‚skills transfer™ category is not a visitor 

route and the person™s visa (a category D visa) will be distinct from a visitor visa. The visa will 

clearly state the immigration category of intra-company transfer and this will indicate eligibility 

to access free NHS services. 
5.11 
Where a person is refunded part of the health surcharge, they will be exempt from NHS 
charges. However, where they receive a full refund, they are chargeable for NHS services at 
the point of delivery (unless another exemption in the Charging Regulations applies) because 

their immigration application has been refused. Where the surcharge has been refunded 

because the person did not claim an exemption to which they were entitled, and incorrectly 

paid the surcharge, the person will be exempt from NHS charges in the same way as others 

exempt on this basis (except for visitors who are chargeable for NHS services). 
5.12 
Non-EEA migrants who applied for leave to remain in the UK for more than six months 
prior to the implementation of the health surcharge (6 April 2015) will not be retrospectively 
required to pay the health surcharge. As these individuals will not have an opportunity to pay 

the health surcharge until they next make an immigration application, Regulation 11 operates 

as a transitional arrangement and exempts them from charges for NHS services until their 

existing leave (visa) expires. They will be liable to pay the health surcharge if they make a 

further application for leave to remain in the UK for a time-limited period after 6 April 2015, 

subject to being eligible for exemption or waiver from paying the surcharge. 
5.13 
Where a person who is exempt from charges under Regulation 10 or 11 makes an 
in-time application (before expiry of their existing leave) for further leave to remain in the UK, 
and their existing leave is extended pending the outcome of that application, they will continue 

to be exempt from NHS charges until any extended period of their existing leave expires. 
5.14 
Where a person who is exempt from charges under Regulation 10 or 11 stops being 
exempt from charges because their leave expires, they overstay their visa or have their visa 
curtailed or rescinded by the Home Of˜ce, they become chargeable for treatment from that 

point onwards, including for the continuation of courses of treatment that are already under 

way. The ‚easement clause™ under Regulation 3(5) does not apply to those under surcharge or 

transitional arrangements. 
5.15 
A child born to a person who is exempt from charges under Regulation 10 or 11 will also 
be exempt from charges while they are aged three months or younger, unless the child leaves 
and returns to the UK within this timeframe, in which case the exemption will no longer apply. 

Parents should ensure that they regularise their child™s immigration status in the UK during 

this three-month period, which may include the parent paying the surcharge on their child™s 

behalf. If the parent does not regularise their child™s status, they will be liable for any charges 

for treatment provided to the child after the three-month period. 
        Chapter 5. The health surcharge: how to deal with and recognise someone who has paid or is exempt from paying 39 
How to recognise someone who has paid the surcharge 
Additional information contained in the Summary care Record application on the Spine 
5.16 
Individuals who have paid the health surcharge, or who are exempt or waived from 
payment of the surcharge, will be pre-registered on the Spine using information provided by 
the Home Of˜ce. The Spine is an information technology system consisting of applications, 

services and directories, used to record and display data on individuals and provide for the 

exchange of information across the health service in England. NHS records for surcharge 

payers, and those exempt from paying the surcharge, will include basic demographic 

information visible to all NHS staff. Overseas Visitor Managers (OVMs), or equivalents, will 

be able to access additional information regarding an individual™s nationality, UK Biometric 

Residence Permit (BRP) and period of permitted stay in the UK via a ‚Chargeable Status™ tab 

within the Summary care Record application (SCRa). 
5.17 
Individuals who are able to access NHS services on the same basis as a UK ordinary 
resident, either because they have paid the surcharge, or are exempt or waived from paying 
the surcharge, will have a ‚green™ banner on their NHS record. The banner will indicate that 

they are ‚Green: Paid or exempt from the health surcharge™. All smartcard-enabled staff will 

be able to view a green banner on the NHS records of surcharge payers, or those exempt or 

waived from paying the surcharge, when the record is viewed through the SCRa. Upon seeing 

a record marked as ‚green™, NHS staff should be able to proceed with medical healthcare 

without undertaking any further investigation for charges. However, if there are any concerns 

regarding a migrant™s status NHS staff should refer the individual to the OVM. 
5.18 
Should an individual™s ‚green™ status change for any reason (e.g. the period of granted 
leave expires), the individual may be chargeable for NHS services from that point onwards, 
including the remainder of courses of treatment already under way. These individuals will 

have a red banner indicating that they are ‚Red: Likely chargeable for NHS services™. This 

should act as a prompt to call the OVM, or relevant staff member, for further investigation to 

determine chargeability. 
5.19 
Demographic information on surcharge payers, and those exempt or waived from paying 
the surcharge, will be visible on the local demographics system via the hospital IT system. 
However, the green/red banner will only be visible via the SCRa to NHS staff with smartcard 

access. For the vast majority of NHS staff it will not be possible to distinguish between those 

individuals who have paid the surcharge and those who are exempt or waived from paying the 

surcharge. 
5.20 
Only OVMs, or their equivalents, will have access to the additional immigration 
information regarding nationality and granted period of leave to remain in the UK via the 
‚Chargeable Status™ tab within the SCRa. This tab will also contain details of any previous 

periods of leave within the UK. To gain access to the additional immigration information 

contained in the tab, you will need to apply for access via your local registration authority. 

You should complete an RA02 form and request access to the B0259 activity code, which is 

called ‚Entitlement Administration™. 
   40 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
5.21 
The screenshot that follows provides an example of what the NHS record of a surcharge 
payee, and those exempt or waived from paying the surcharge, will look like when viewed 
through the Chargeable Status tab on the SCRa visible only to OVMs. 
   Chapter 5. The health surcharge: how to deal with and recognise someone who has paid or is exempt from paying 41 
             42 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
The Biometric Residence Permit 
5.22 
The BRP provides a simple and secure means of determining and verifying a person™s 
immigration status and entitlements. The BRP contains the holder™s photograph, basic 
biographical information and their immigration status, including any relevant conditions and 

the date the card and entitlements expire, on the face of the card. 
5.23 
Since 2012, the BRP has been issued to all non-EEA nationals applying within the UK 
for further leave to remain for more than six months. During 2015, all non-EEA nationals 
newly granted permission to enter the UK for more than six months will be issued with a BRP. 

By the end of July 2015, the BRP will be the only document issued by the Home Of˜ce to 

non-EEA nationals under the Immigration Rules to evidence their status. However, BRPs will 

not be issued retrospectively so there will be a transitional period in which other immigration 

documents are still in circulation. 
5.24 
The following is an example of a BRP. 
5.25 
No information relating to surcharge payment will be contained on the card. However, 
after April 2015, when the surcharge is introduced, the vast majority of non-EEA nationals 
subject to immigration control will only have a BRP if they have paid the surcharge, are exempt 

or waived from payment of the surcharge, or were granted leave to remain in the UK prior to 

the surcharge being implemented. Therefore, a valid BRP will indicate that the individual is 

eligible for NHS services on the same basis as an ordinary resident, unless the BRP is clearly 

marked to show that the migrant applied in a visitor category (see paragraph˛5.26). 
5.26 
Prior to collection of the BRP, people will be issued with a 30-day multi-entry short stay 
vignette in their passport to allow them to travel to the UK. From April, this vignette will be 
evidence that an individual has paid the surcharge, or is exempt or waived from payment, if 

they have not yet collected their BRP. 
5.27 
There is one exceptional category of individuals who will be issued a BRP but who 
are chargeable for NHS services. This is a small number of visitors who are permitted to 
stay for longer than six months but less than a year (including academic visitors, student 

visitors and private medical visitors). These people will have BRPs, but will not have paid the 

health surcharge and should be subject to NHS overseas visitor charges (unless a different 

exemption in the Charging Regulations applies). Their BRPs will be marked to demonstrate 

their ‚visitor™ status. 
5.28 
The BRP is only valid for the period shown on the card, which covers the period of leave 
to enter or remain in the UK granted. If the card has expired, and the subject has not obtained 
a new card to extend their stay or cannot provide evidence that they are in the process of 
              Chapter 5. The health surcharge: how to deal with and recognise someone who has paid or is exempt from paying 43 
making an in-time application (i.e. they submitted their application before their previous leave 
expired), then they are likely to be chargeable for NHS services. A person whose leave has 

been curtailed is likely to be chargeable for NHS care. However, they may be in possession 

of a BRP that has not yet expired. This reinforces the importance of checking the Spine for 

updates on a patient™s immigration status. 
5.29 
Only data on those individuals who have been granted a BRP will be visible on the Spine 
(except if the individual is in one of the groups who are exempt from paying the surcharge and 
not issued with a BRP Œ see paragraph 5.29 below). 
5.30 
Certain categories of migrants will not be issued with a BRP. This includes asylum 
seekers, and those applying for leave as victims of domestic violence or traf˜cking. These 
groups will be exempt from paying the surcharge and will have an NHS record created on the 

Spine demonstrating their ‚green™ status. See Chapter 7 for more information about what other 

evidence you can accept to establish entitlement to free NHS services for these groups. 
5.31 
One sub-category of intra-company transfers, ‚skills transfer™, where leave is only 
granted for a maximum of six months, will also not be issued with a BRP. These individuals 
will receive a visa but will be exempt from the surcharge and will be entitled to access NHS 

services on the same basis as an ordinary resident. The ‚skills transfer™ category is not a 

visitor route, and the visa (a category D visa) will be distinct from a visitor visa. The category 

D visa clearly states the immigration category of intra-company transfer and this will indicate 

eligibility to access free NHS services. 
5.32 
Some non-EEA nationals have a right to live in the UK as family members of an EEA 
national who is exercising EU Treaty rights, typically by working in the UK. These individuals 
are exempt from paying the surcharge and will have an NHS record created on the Spine 

demonstrating their ‚Green: Free access to NHS services™ status during the time granted to 

remain in the UK. They will be issued with a Biometric Residence Card (BRC) instead of a 

BRP from April 2015. Some may continue to rely on valid non-biometric residence cards until 

they expire. The BRC will be almost identical in style and substance to the BRP and should 

be handled in the same way to verify eligibility for free NHS services. 
5.33 
OVMs should be aware that, from April 2015, short stay permits will be issued to 
persons who have extended their stay in the UK for a cumulative period of six months or less. 
BRPs will be issued to migrants who apply for leave to remain in the UK for a total period 

of more than six months. Individuals who carry a short stay permit will not have a banner 

describing their access to NHS services on the Spine and will be subject to the charges 

(unless another exemption from charges in the Charging Regulations applies). 
No NHS record visible on the Spine and no BRP 
5.34 
There will be a transitional period in which some people who have paid the surcharge, or 
who are exempt or waived from paying the surcharge, do not have an NHS record or a BRP. 
These individuals are likely to be: 
nationals of a country where the BRP does not yet form part of the immigration 
application process (this can be veri˜ed using the timetable in the toolbox outlining 

when migrants of certain countries will be issued with a BRP as part of the immigration 

application process); 
                  44 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
people who applied for leave to enter or remain in the UK prior to the implementation of 
the surcharge or who will be exempt from charges until their existing visa expires; or 
those who are exempt from paying the surcharge and who are not issued with a BRP. 
5.35 
Asylum seekers and those applying for leave to remain as victims of domestic violence 
or traf˜cking are not issued with a BRP. These groups should have an NHS record visible on 

the Spine, but if one is not available you should continue to use good judgement and other 

available documentation such as the Application Registration Card (ARC) or evidence of 

exemption from paying the surcharge from the Home Of˜ce to ascertain eligibility for free 

NHS services. 
5.36 
You will need to continue to exercise good judgement and make enquiries of the 
Evidence and Enquiry team at the Home Of˜ce, where individuals are not recorded on the 
Spine and where you cannot verify that the health surcharge has been paid. 
5.37 
The table below outlines different categories of non-EEA migrants who may apply 
for leave to enter and remain in the UK for a period of more than six months, and who will 
therefore be in scope of paying the immigration health surcharge, and the documentation that 

NHS staff should request to verify their status. 
Exempt 
Exempt 
Issued a 
Status 
Documentation to verify 
from 
from 
BRP 
on 
status 
paying 
NHS 
SCRa 
surcharge 
charges 
Surcharge 
N Y Y Green 
Additional information on 
payees (whose 
the SCRa 
visas remain 

valid) 
BRP 
Visa stamp/vignette in 

passport to show that 

leave to enter or remain 

in the UK for more than 

6 months was granted 

after April 2015 (during 

the transition period as 

the BRP is rolled out 

overseas) 
                   
      Chapter 5. The health surcharge: how to deal with and recognise someone who has paid or is exempt from paying 45 
Exempt 
Exempt 
Issued a 
Status 
Documentation to verify 
from 
from 
BRP 
on 
status 
paying 
NHS 
SCRa 
surcharge 
charges 
Nationals of 
Y Y Y Green 
Additional information on 
Australia and 
the SCRa 
New Zealand 
(non-visitors) 
BRP 
Visa stamp/vignette in 

passport to show that 

leave to enter or remain 

in the UK for more than 

6 months was granted 

after April 2015 (during 

the transition period as 

the BRP is rolled out 

overseas) 
British 
Y Y Y Green 
Additional information on 
Overseas 
the SCRa 
Territories 

citizens who 
BRP 
are resident in 
Visa stamp/vignette in 
the Falklands 
passport to show that 
Islands 
leave to enter or remain 

in the UK for more than 

6 months was granted 

after April 2015 
Dependants 

of military 

personnel 
Y Y Y Green 
Additional information on 

the SCRa 
BRP 
                            
    46 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Exempt 
Exempt 
Issued a 
Status 
Documentation to verify 
from 
from 
BRP 
on 
status 
paying 
NHS 
SCRa 
surcharge 
charges 
Intra-company 
Y Y Y Green 
Additional information on 
transfers 
Y Y the SCRa 
Skills transfer 
BRP 
sub-category 
Visa stamp/vignette in 
passport 
N 
(issued 

with 

category 

D visa) 
Green 
‚Skills transfer™, where 

leave is only granted up 

to 6 months, will NOT 

have a BRP. They will 

have a category D visa 

which looks different 

from a visitor visa and 

it will be clear this is an 

intra-company transfer 

and not a visitor route. 
Third country 
Y Y N Green 
Additional information on 
nationals 
(issued 
the SCRa 
exercising an 

EU right 
with 

BRC) 
BRC from April 2015 
Permanent and 

temporary residence 

cards (during the 

transition period as 

the BRP is rolled out 

overseas) 
Visa stamp/vignette in 

passport 
                                       Chapter 5. The health surcharge: how to deal with and recognise someone who has paid or is exempt from paying 47 
Exempt 
Exempt 
Issued a 
Status 
Documentation to verify 
from 
from 
BRP 
on 
status 
paying 
NHS 
SCRa 
surcharge 
charges 
Children who 
Y Y Y Green 
Additional information on 
are looked 
the SCRa 
after by a 
Local Authority 

and make an 

application 
Con˜rmation from the 

Local Authority that the 

child is looked after 
for leave to 
Con˜rmation from 
remain 
the Home Of˜ce that 

they have made an 

application for leave to 

remain 
Visa stamp/vignette in 

passport (during the 

transition period as 

the BRP is rolled out 

overseas) 
BRP if granted leave to 

remain by the Home 

Of˜ce 
People, 
Y Y N Green 
Additional information on 
and their 
(issued 
the SCRa 
dependants, 

who make an 
with 

ARC) 
ARC 
application 
Con˜rmation from Home 
for asylum, 
Of˜ce that asylum 
temporary 
application or application 
protection or 
for temporary protection 
humanitarian 
or humanitarian 
protection 
protection is still under 

consideration 
BRP if granted refugee 

status (including 

temporary protection or 

humanitarian protection) 
                                  48 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Exempt 
Exempt 
Issued a 
Status 
Documentation to verify 
from 
from 
BRP 
on 
status 
paying 
NHS 
SCRa 
surcharge 
charges 
People, 
Y Y Y Green 
Additional information on 
and their 
the SCRa 
dependants, 
whose 
BRP 
removal from 
From April 2015, could 
the UK would 
be issued with a ‚short 
be contrary 
stay permit™ for periods 
to Article 3 of 
of 6 months or less, in 
the European 
which case a BRP will 
Convention on 
not be issued 
Human Rights 
Victims of 
traf˜cking 

and their 

dependants 

who make 

applications 

for leave to 

remain 
Y Y N Green 
Additional information on 

the SCRa 
Con˜rmation from the 

UK Human Traf˜cking 

Centre or Home Of˜ce 

that they are a victim of 

human traf˜cking 
People 
Y Y N Green 
Additional information on 
who make 
the SCRa 
applications 

for leave 

to remain 

under the 

Home Of˜ce 

Destitution 
Con˜rmation from 

the Home Of˜ce of 

Destitution Domestic 

Violence Concession 

having been granted 
Domestic 
From April 2015, could 
Violence 
be issued with a ‚short 
Concession 
stay permit™ for periods 

of 6 months or less, in 

which case a BRP will 

not be issued 
                                             Chapter 5. The health surcharge: how to deal with and recognise someone who has paid or is exempt from paying 49 
Exempt 
Exempt 
Issued a 
Status 
Documentation to verify 
from 
from 
BRP 
on 
status 
paying 
NHS 
SCRa 
surcharge 
charges 
People who 
N/A 
Y Y (in 
Green 
Migrants who applied for 
applied for 
country 
further leave to remain 
leave to enter 
applicant) 
in the UK prior to the 
or remain 
implementation of the 
in the UK 
surcharge and still have 
prior to the 
leave to remain will have 
implementation 
a BRP 
of the 
surcharge 
N (out of 

country 
none 
Migrants who applied 

for leave to enter the 
applicant) 
UK from abroad will 

have a stamp/vignette in 

passport demonstrating 

that leave was granted 

for more than 6 months 

prior to April 2015. 
Special long-
Out of 
N Y none 
BRP marked to clearly 
stayer visitors 
scope 
state visitor category 
(e.g. private 

medical or 

academic 

visitors) 
Visa stamp/vignette in 

passport (during the 

transition period as 

the BRP is rolled out 

overseas) 
When could a status on the SCRa change? 
Applies for further leave to remain and application is granted 
 status remains 
green
. Applies for further leave to remain and application is refused 
 status changes 
green 
to 
red
. Period of leave granted is curtailed 
 status changes 
green 
to 
red
. Period of leave granted expires and no in-time application for an extension of leave is 

made 
 status changes 
green 
to 
red
. Granted citizenship 
 migrant information on NHS record deleted. 
Granted inde˜nite leave to remain 
 green banner removed 
and no end date for period of 
leave. 
An asylum seeker is granted refugee status or humanitarian protection 
 status remains 

green
.        50 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Failed asylum seekers with no recourse to further appeal (leave is curtailed or expires) 
 status changes to 
red
. Failed asylum seekers may be exempt from NHS charges if they are supported by the 

Home Of˜ce or a Local Authority 
 status remains 
green
 (see Chapter XX for more 
information). 
NB: A migrant whose leave has been curtailed is likely to be chargeable for NHS care. 
However, they may be in possession of a BRP that has not yet expired. This reinforces the 

importance of checking the Spine for updates on a patient™s immigration status. 
         
 51 Chapter 6. Former UK residents, armed 
forces members and war pensioners 
Former UK residents 
6.1 
Former UK ordinary residents who have emigrated and no longer reside in the UK are 
usually chargeable on visits to the UK. However, there are two important things to consider 
before charging: is the patient still ordinarily resident in the UK, and, if not, are they exempt 

from charge under the Charging Regulations? 
6.2 
British citizens, European Economic Area (EEA) nationals and non-EEA nationals with 
inde˜nite leave to remain returning to resume properly settled residence in the UK will meet 
the ordinary residence test (assuming their residence is lawful and voluntarily adopted), most 

likely from the date of their arrival. See Chapter 3 more information on ordinary residence. 
6.3 
The following exemption categories may apply to those who are not ordinarily resident in 
the UK: 

Regulation 12 Œ EU rights
: Former residents now residing in other EEA member states 
(and in limited circumstances residing outside the EEA) may have a right under EU law to 
free NHS hospital care. See Chapter 9 for more information on persons with EU rights. 
Regulation 13 Œ UK state pensioners resident in the EEA
: UK state pensioners 
who are resident in another EEA member state are exempt from charge for all NHS 

hospital treatment, including elective treatment, provided that they have registered an S1 

document in that member state. See Chapter 9 for more about this exemption. 
Regulation 14 Œ reciprocal healthcare agreements
: Former residents residing in 
countries with which the UK has a reciprocal healthcare agreement may be covered 

by the terms of that agreement and be entitled to free NHS hospital healthcare (usually 

only for medically necessary healthcare but will depend on the terms of the relevant 

agreement). See Chapter 10 for more information on reciprocal healthcare agreements. 
Regulation 20 Œ armed forces, Crown servants and UK Government funded 

employment
: Former residents may be working abroad as part of an armed service or 
as a Crown servant. They may also be in UK Government funded employment abroad or 

be employed by the British Council or Commonwealth War Graves Commission. Such 

individuals may be exempt from charges (see paragraphs 6.4 to 6.10). 
Regulation 22 Œ war pensioners and armed forces compensation recipients
: Such 
individuals are exempt from charges while visiting or living in the UK (see paragraphs 6.11 

and 6.12). 
          52 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Armed forces members, Crown servants and UK Government funded 
employment (Regulation 20) 
Armed forces members 
6.4 
Members of the regular and reserve forces (collectively referred to as UK forces) are 
exempt from charge for all treatment. The armed forces member does not have to have been 
a former UK resident, but the exemption will also cover those who are serving overseas and 

who might not be considered ordinarily resident in the UK. 
6.5 The spouse/civil partner and children under 18 of the armed forces member are also 
exempt from charge, even if the armed forces member is not in the UK with them at the time 
of treatment. The spouse/civil partner or child must be in the UK lawfully. Note that those 

dependants of armed forces members who apply to reside in the UK for six months or more 

will be entitled to free NHS healthcare by virtue of the surcharge arrangements (they are 

exempt from having to pay the surcharge Œ see Chapter 5 for more details). 
6.6 
Examples of evidence include proof that they are a serving member of the UK forces, 
e.g.
 valid UK forces ID card or con˜rmation from the Ministry of Defence. 
Crown servants; British Council staff; Commonwealth War Graves Commission staff; 
and those in employment (paid or unpaid) ˜nanced in part by the UK Government (in 

arrangements with the government or public body of another country or territory) 
6.7 
A person from any of the above groups (called a ‚qualifying employee™ in the regulation) 
is exempt from charge for all treatment, provided that they are either: 

(i) visiting the UK as a requirement of the qualifying employment; or 
(ii) 
if visiting for leisure/other purposes, they were ordinarily resident in the UK prior to being 
posted overseas as a qualifying employee. A qualifying employee who was not ordinarily 

resident in the UK immediately prior to their current post will still be exempt if they had 

previously held another post as a qualifying employee, and were ordinarily resident in the 

UK immediately prior to taking up that earlier post. 
6.8 
The spouse/civil partner or children under 18 of the qualifying employee are also 
exempt from charge, even if the qualifying employee is not in the UK with them at the time 

of treatment. The spouse/civil partner or child must be in the UK lawfully. However, if the 

qualifying employee was not previously ordinarily resident as described in paragraph˛6.7(ii) 

above, and is only exempt because they are visiting the UK as a requirement of their 

employment, their spouse/civil partner or child will only be exempt when visiting the UK with 

that qualifying employee. 
6.9 
Examples of evidence include proof of such employment, and of being ordinarily 
resident in the UK prior to taking up such a post. For more information about evidence of 
ordinary residence, see Chapter 3. 
     Chapter 6. Former UK residents, armed forces members and war pensioners 53 
War pensioners and armed forces compensation scheme payment 
recipients (Regulation 22) 
6.10 
People who receive UK war pensions or war widows™ pensions are exempt from 
charges for all NHS hospital treatment, as are recipients of armed forces compensation 
scheme payments. This exemption extends to their spouse/civil partner and/or dependent 

children if they are lawfully present and visiting the UK with the exempt overseas visitor. 
6.11 
Examples of evidence include proof of appropriate pension/compensation scheme 
payment Œ pension book/slip, letter from the Ministry of Defence or the Department for Work 
and Pensions. The relevant NHS body should contact the departments for con˜rmation if 

necessary. 
Question and answers 
Q: Will the NHS pay for repatriating someone to the UK if they become seriously ill while 
abroad? 

A: No. If someone is taken seriously ill, the NHS is not responsible for funding their repatriation 
back to the UK if a person is taken seriously ill. However, if the patient™s family make their 
own arrangements to repatriate the patient who on arrival will be resuming their ordinary 

residence, then they will become entitled to access full NHS treatment free of charge from the 

date of their arrival. In cases where relevant NHS bodies are advised in advance that a patient 

is arriving, they must make adequate arrangements to ensure that the patient receives the 

appropriate healthcare on their arrival back in the UK. 
      54 Chapter 7. Vulnerable patients and those 
detained 
When operating the charging rules it is very important to consider the position of 
vulnerable overseas visitors, including those unlawfully resident in our communities, 

both those who are exempt from charge and those who are chargeable. 
7.1 
Not all people who are in vulnerable positions are exempt from charge, but the NHS 
must always provide immediately necessary or urgent care, including maternity care, to any 
chargeable patient, regardless of whether or not they have yet paid for that care. Chapter 8 

discusses in detail what should happen when a chargeable patient cannot pay for treatment. 
7.2 
Overseas Visitor Managers (OVMs), and other NHS staff are strongly encouraged to 
speak to their safeguarding leads if, in the course of their work, they are concerned about 
the welfare of any patient. It can also be helpful for OVMs to build constructive relationships 

with local agencies which support people in various types of need, or to seek advice and 

information from relevant national agencies and organisations. This can help in understanding 

the needs and circumstances of patients, some of whom can be very afraid of disclosing 

personal information. This can have a negative impact on their care. Working together with 

organisations and agencies supporting these patients helps to ensure that they receive the 

support they need, and are fully informed about how to access support services, including 

any entitlement to free NHS hospital services. It can also improve a person™s understanding 

of the charges they face and the choices they have (including the consequences of incurring 

NHS debts), and facilitate discussions about the possibility of payment plans being agreed for 

those having dif˜culty paying for the cost of their treatment. 
The following groups are exempt from charge: 
Treatment of conditions caused by speci˜ed types of violence 
(Regulation 9(f)) 
7.3 
An overseas visitor who has been subjected to certain types of violence will not be 
charged for treatment or services needed to treat conditions caused by that violence. 
               Chapter 7. Vulnerable patients and those detained 55 
The types of violence are: 
(i) 
Torture 
The term ‚torture™ means: 
Any act by which severe pain or suffering, whether physical or mental, is intentionally 
in˜icted on a person for such purposes as obtaining from him or a third person 

information or a confession, punishing him for an act he or a third person has 

committed or is suspected of having committed, or intimidating or coercing him or a 

third person, or for any reason based on discrimination of any kind, when such pain or 

suffering is in˜icted by or at the instigation of or with the consent or acquiescence of a 

public of˚cial or other person acting in an of˚cial capacity. It does not include pain or 

suffering arising only from, inherent in or incidental to lawful sanctions.
7 7.4 
Services provided for the treatment of a condition directly attributable to torture are 
free to all overseas visitors, provided that the overseas visitor has not travelled to the UK for 

the speci˜c purpose of seeking that treatment. Coming to the UK to escape torture does 

not mean coming here for the speci˜c purpose of seeking treatment. Provision of treatment 

should be holistic, include medical and psychological care, and may include measures such 

as medical, physical and psychological rehabilitative services. Many survivors of torture suffer 

mental health dif˜culties and mental health services play a key role in their treatment. 
7.5 
There are signi˜cant complexities in identifying this group of vulnerable people. Survivors 
of torture may not disclose humiliating and degrading experiences of torture and ill-treatment, 
or may disclose this sensitive information over a period of time as a relationship of trust 

develops. When identifying a survivor of torture (and other cruel, inhuman or degrading 

treatment or punishment) to establish if an exemption applies, an OVM should accept: 
con˜rmation from a medical professional, including a referring GP, who could most 
appropriately identify signs and symptoms of torture and that the treatment accessed is 

attributable to this torture; and/or 
con˜rmation from an appropriate non-governmental organisation or charity, such as 

the Helen Bamber Foundation or Freedom from Torture Foundation, con˜rming that the 

patient is a client of theirs and is accessing their services as a survivor of torture. 
7.6 
Both Foundations provide training, capacity-building and supervision to NHS clinicians 
on the identi˜cation of victims of torture, and the assessment of their health needs, and are 

keen to continue to offer training and/or contribute to training packages to build capacity to 

support the identi˜cation of survivors of torture. 
(ii) 
Female genital mutilation 
7.7 
Female genital mutilation (FGM) means the excision, in˜bulation or other mutilation 
(collectively referred to as mutilation) of the whole or any part of a female™s labia majora, labia 
minora or clitoris, where that mutilation constituted an offence under the Female Genital 

Mutilation Act 2003 (or would have done so if performed before the Act came into force, or, if 
7 Article 1(1) of the UN Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or 
Punishment. 
              56 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
performed outside the UK, would have done so if performed in the UK). Services provided for 
the treatment of any condition, including a chronic condition or a mental health condition, that 

is directly attributable to the FGM are covered by the exemption and are free of charge. This 

includes any maternity services (antenatal, perinatal and postpartum treatment) the need for 

which is directly attributable to the mutilation. 
7.8 
The exemption applies wherever the FGM was performed, provided that the overseas 
visitor has not travelled to the UK for the speci˜c purpose of seeking that treatment. Any other 
treatment that a woman or girl who is a victim of FGM needs that is not directly attributable to 

the FGM may be chargeable unless covered by another exemption. 
7.9 
Where FGM is identi˜ed in NHS patients, it is now mandatory to record this in the 
patient™s 
health record
. Since September 2014, all acute trusts are required to provide a 
monthly report to the Department of Health on the number of patients who have had FGM or 
who have a family history of FGM. 
7.10 
Health professionals in acute trusts should always update a patient record with whatever 
discussions or actions have been taken. If the patient has undergone FGM, referral to a 
specialist FGM clinic should always be considered. If a relevant NHS body refers a patient to 

social services or the˛police, then this should also be recorded in the patient™s health record. 

If a patient is identi˜ed as being at risk of FGM, then this information must be shared with the 

GP and health visitor, as part of safeguarding actions. 
7.11 
In order to establish if an exemption should apply, OVMs should therefore obtain 
con˜rmation from a medical professional (which might be a referring GP) who is aware of 
the patient™s health record that FGM is, or will be, recorded there, and that the treatment 

being accessed is directly attributable to the FGM. A referral from an FGM clinic will also be 

evidence that a charge is not to be applied for treatment attributable to the FGM. 
You can access training resources on FGM using the link below: 
www.nhs.uk/NHSEngland/AboutNHSservices/sexual-health-services/Pages/fgm-for

professionals.aspx 
(iii) 
Domestic violence 
7.12 
The Home Of˜ce has developed a non-statutory cross-government de˜nition of 
domestic violence and abuse which is: 
Any incident or pattern of incidents of controlling, coercive, threatening behaviour, 
violence or abuse between those aged 16 or over who are, or have been, intimate 

partners or family members
8 regardless of gender or sexuality. The abuse can 
encompass, but is not limited to: 
 psychological 
 physical 
 sexual 
 ˚nancial 
 emotional 
8 Family members are: mother, father, son, daughter, brother, sister and grandparents; in-laws or step-family. 
                 Chapter 7. Vulnerable patients and those detained 57 
Controlling behaviour is a range of acts designed to make a person subordinate 
and/or dependent by isolating them from sources of support, exploiting their 

resources and capacities for personal gain, depriving them of the means needed for 

independence, resistance and escape and regulating their everyday behaviour. 
Coercive behaviour is an act or a pattern of acts of assault, threats, humiliation and 
intimidation or other abuse that is used to harm, punish, or frighten their victim. 
7.13 
The Home Of˜ce website on domestic violence and abuse provides other useful 
resources at 
www.gov.uk/domestic-violence-and-abuse
. 7.14 
Services provided for the treatment of a condition that is directly attributable to domestic 
violence are free to all overseas visitors provided that the overseas visitor has not travelled to 

the UK for the speci˜c purpose of seeking that treatment. This will include any mental health 

services that are needed as a consequence of the violence. 
7.15 
It is often dif˜cult to identify victims of domestic violence, particularly as victims are often 
in powerless and dangerous situations and may be unwilling to disclose that they are suffering 
in this way. However, where a person has disclosed previously to a medical professional 

that they are a victim, this may be recorded in their health record. In such cases, OVMs may 

be able to obtain con˜rmation from a medical professional (including a referring GP) who is 

aware of the patient™s health record that the person is in a domestically violent situation, and 

that the treatment being accessed is directly attributable to domestic violence. Otherwise, an 

OVM should accept con˜rmation from a medical professional who could most appropriately 

identify signs and symptoms of domestic violence that the services being provided are directly 

attributable to that violence. 
7.16 
A number of training tools and sources of information exist to support clinicians to 
recognise domestic violence. The Department of Health has provided the 
following resources: 
April 2014, a toolkit for health visitors, to help increase knowledge about identifying people 
affected by domestic violence and providing support through partnership working: 

www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-for-health-professionals-on-domestic

violence
. Responding to Domestic Abuse: a handbook for health professionals
 which gives practical 

guidance to healthcare professionals working with patients who may have experienced or 

are experiencing domestic abuse. The 2009 edition is available at: 

www.dh.gov.uk/prod_consum_dh/groups/dh_digitalassets/@dh/@en/documents/ 

digitalasset/dh_4126619.pdf
. Improving safety, reducing harm: children, young people and domestic violence. A 

practical toolkit for front-line practitioners
, 2009. This toolkit for health professionals was 
developed to improve responses to a range of key issues affecting children and young 

people, including domestic violence, bullying, sexual violence and gangs as well as child 

protection and risk assessments. A copy of the toolkit is available at: 
www.dh.gov.uk/prod_consum_dh/groups/dh_digitalassets/@dh/@en/@ps/documents/ 

digitalasset/dh_116914.pdf
.            58 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
7.17 
In the absence of con˜rmation from a medical professional, it is crucial that, in trying 
to establish if charges apply, people who may be victims of domestic violence are treated 
sensitively and discreetly, especially if accompanied by others who may be violent towards 

them. In no circumstances should documentation regarding charging (or exemption from 

charging) be sent to the patient that mentions domestic violence, due to the danger this might 

place the person in. For this reason, organisations supporting victims of domestic violence 

may also be reluctant to provide documentation specifying that a person is considered 

by them to be a victim of domestic violence. OVMs must bear this in mind when trying to 

establish if charges apply to the person. If a victim has made steps to claim legal aid because 

they have separated from the abusive partner/family member, they would have needed to 

provide documentation from a domestic violence refuge or specialist support service; this 

could count as evidence of entitlement to free treatment, where necessary. 
7.18 
NHS staff and OVMs should be aware that some non-European Economic Area (EEA) 
nationals and their dependants are able to make applications to the Home Of˜ce for leave to 
remain under the Destitution Domestic Violence Concession policy, following the breakdown 

of their relationship due to domestic violence. These individuals are exempt from paying the 

surcharge and are entitled to healthcare on the same basis as an ordinary resident. They will 

have a ‚Green: Paid or exempt from the health surcharge™ banner on their record when viewed 

through the Summary care Record application. 
(iv) 
Sexual violence 
7.19 
Sexual violence is rape or sexual assault. Sexual violence may be included in domestic 
violence too. When it is not, a separate exemption means that services provided for the 
treatment of a condition directly attributable to sexual violence are free of charge, provided 

that the overseas visitor has not travelled to the UK for the speci˜c purpose of seeking that 

treatment. Treatment will include mental health services and maternity services needed as a 

consequence of sexual violence. 
7.20 
Anyone can be a victim of rape or sexual assault, no matter what age they are, their 
sexuality and regardless of whether they are male or female. 

7.21 
If a person is a victim of rape or sexual assault it may be recorded in their health record, 
in which case OVMs may be able to obtain con˜rmation from a medical professional who is 
aware of the patient™s health record that the patient is a victim of sexual violence, and that the 

treatment being accessed is directly attributable to that violence. Otherwise, an OVM should 

accept con˜rmation from a medical professional, including a referring GP, who could most 

appropriately identify signs and symptoms of sexual violence, that the services being provided 

are directly attributable to that violence. The training tools provided on page 37 for domestic 

violence may also assist medical professionals in identifying signs of sexual violence. 
7.22 
Since referrals would normally come through a Sexual Assault Referral Centre (SARC), 
which provides specialist medical and forensic services, this will be an obvious indicator 
that the services being accessed are as a result of sexual violence, so that treatment will be 

exempt from charges. 
                   Chapter 7. Vulnerable patients and those detained 59 
Refugees (Regulation 15(a)) 
7.23 
Anyone granted asylum, temporary protection or humanitarian protection under the 
Immigration Rules made under section 3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971 is recognised as a 
refugee and is exempt from charges. 
7.24 
Such individuals are also exempt from paying the surcharge, and are entitled to their 
NHS healthcare free of charge on the same basis as an ordinary resident. They will have 
a green banner on their record when viewed through the Summary healthcare Record 

application. 

See Chapter 5 for more information. 
7.25 
The following should be provided as evidence of being granted asylum, temporary 
protection or humanitarian protection: 

a ‚Green: Paid or exempt from the health surcharge™ banner on the patient™s record, when 
the record is viewed through the Summary care Record application; or 
con˜rmation from the Home Of˜ce of asylum, temporary protection or humanitarian 

protection having been granted. 
OVMs should also contact the Evidence and Enquiry team at the Home Of˜ce if they need 

con˜rmation that a person has been granted asylum, temporary protection or humanitarian 

protection. 
Asylum seekers and others seeking refuge (Regulation˛15(b)) 
7.26 
Anyone who has made a formal application with the Home Of˜ce to be granted asylum, 
temporary protection or humanitarian protection which has not yet been determined is also 

exempt from charges. Formal applications are those made under the 1951 UN Convention 

and its 1967 Protocol and also any other request for humanitarian protection, such as some 

claims made on protection from serious harm grounds under Article 3 of the European 

Convention on Human Rights. Relevant NHS bodies should seek their own legal advice if it is 

not clear under what circumstances a person is making such a claim. 
7.27 
A person, and their dependants, who makes an application for leave to remain which 
relates to a claim for asylum or humanitarian protection, or on the basis that that their removal 
from the UK would be contrary to Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, 

will be exempt from paying the surcharge and will be entitled to their NHS heal
thcare 
on the 
same basis as an ordinary resident. 
7.28 
Other than the Summary care Record, the following should be provided as evidence of 
having made an application for asylum, temporary protection or humanitarian protection: 

Application Registration Card (ARC) issued by the Home Of˜ce or con˜rmation from 
the Home Of˜ce that the person has made such an application and that it is still under 

consideration. 
             60 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Asylum seekers supported by the Home Of˜ce under section˛95; ˝
failed asylum seekers supported by the Home Of˜ce under ˝

section˛4(2) or by a Local Authority under section 21 ˝

(Regulation 15(c) and (d))˝ 
7.29 
A person who has had their asylum/humanitarian protection application and all appeals 
rejected becomes a ‚failed asylum seeker™. They will become liable for charges for their NHS 
hospital treatment at that point, unless one of the following situations applies to them. 
7.30 
Persons who are being supported by the Home Of˜ce under section 4(2) or section 95 
of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 are exempt from charges. Section 4(2) support is 
given to those failed asylum seekers making reasonable efforts to leave the UK but for whom 

there are genuine recognised barriers to their return home. Section 95 is provided to asylum 

seekers where they would otherwise be destitute and this normally continues for those failed 

asylum seekers who have children under the age of 18. 
7.31 
Failed asylum seekers being supported by a Local Authority under section 21 of the 
National Assistance Act 1948 are also exempt from charges. Such failed asylum seekers 
receive this support due to a need for healthcare and attention (usually because of a 

disability), and are in an analogous situation to those receiving section 4(2) support, who are 

usually able bodied. 
7.32 
The following should be provided as evidence of being supported by the Home Of˜ce or 
a Local Authority: 

con˜rmation that the person is being supported by the Home Of˜ce under section 95, or 
is a failed asylum seeker supported by the Home Of˜ce under section 4(2) or by a Local 

Authority under section 21. 
7.33 
A failed asylum seeker who makes a fresh application for asylum, temporary protection 
or humanitarian protection will become an asylum seeker again and will therefore be exempt 

from charges again under Regulation 15(b), until that new application, including any appeals, 

is determined. Charges will still apply during any period between the ˜rst application, including 

appeals, being rejected and the second, fresh, application being lodged with the Home 

Of˜ce. 
Children looked after by a Local Authority 
7.34 
Children who are looked after by a Local Authority within the meaning of section 22(1) of 
the Children Act 1989 are exempt from charges. This will include the following children who 

are accommodated by a Local Authority: 
children in the care of the Local Authority by virtue of a care order (by a court); 
children who are unaccompanied by a parent or guardian in the UK or abandoned or for 
whom there is no one with parental responsibility; and 
children who are voluntarily accommodated by a Local Authority (without the need for 

intervention by a court). 
            Chapter 7. Vulnerable patients and those detained 61 
7.35 
There may be occasions when a relevant NHS body treats an overseas visitor child who 
is unaccompanied or abandoned, or for whom there is no one with parental responsibility, 
and whom the relevant NHS body believes should be in the care of or looked after by the 

Local Authority. Where that child is subsequently taken into the care of the Local Authority, 

there will be no charge for the treatment prior to the child being taken into the care of, or 

becoming looked after by, the Local Authority. 
7.36 
OVMs and NHS staff should be aware that some of these children will make applications 
to the Home Of˜ce for leave to remain in the UK. They are exempt from paying the surcharge, 
and are entitled to 
all
 their NHS healthcare free of charge on the same basis as an ordinary 
resident. They will have a ‚Green: Paid or exempt from the health surcharge™ banner on their 

record when viewed through the Summary care Record application. 
7.37 
Con˜rmation from the Local Authority should be obtained to con˜rm that the child is 
looked after by that Local Authority. 

7.38 
Victims, and suspected victims, of human traf˜cking (Regulation 16) 
7.39 
A person who is thought to be a victim of human traf˜cking can be referred to the 
‚Competent Authorities™ (CA) of the UK to be identi˜ed as such. The Competent Authorities 
are the UK Human Traf˜cking Centre (UKHTC) and, where cases are linked to asylum and 

immigration issues, the Home Of˜ce. The CA will then consider if there are reasonable 

grounds to consider the person to be such a victim and if so, will issue a ‚reasonable grounds™ 

decision. Individuals given a reasonable grounds decision are suspected victims of human 

traf˜cking and are exempt from charge during the recovery and re˚ection period (45 days 

in the UK). They will continue to be exempt from charge if the CA con˜rms them as being a 

victim of traf˜cking with a ‚conclusive grounds™ decision. 
7.40 
Those whom the CA con˜rm not to be victims of traf˜cking are no longer exempt from 
charge, other than for courses of treatment already under way, which remain free of charge 
until complete or until the person leaves the country. 
7.41 
It may be that NHS treatment is provided prior to a person being referred to the CA 
for identi˜cation. Charges incurred prior to a referral to the CA for assessment as a victim of 
traf˜cking must be refunded or, if not yet paid, cancelled, when the CA provide a reasonable 

grounds decision. If the CA do not provide a reasonable grounds decision, these charges are 

not cancelled or refunded. If the CA go on to establish that the person is not, in fact, a victim 

of traf˜cking, no treatment provided during the time that the person was suspected as being a 

victim of traf˜cking, or provided prior to being referred to the CA for such an assessment, will 

become chargeable. 
7.42 
The spouse/civil partner and dependent children of those exempt under this regulation 
are also exempt from charges in their own right, as long as they are here lawfully. They do not 
have to have been here with the victim of traf˜cking during the entire period of their stay. 
7.43 
Victims of human traf˜cking are often in powerless situations and NHS staff may come 
across them before they have had a chance to escape their oppressors and seek help. They 
may be unwilling to disclose their situation, although NHS staff are often trusted individuals 

who might be best placed to identify signs of traf˜cking. A lea˚et and e-learning resources 

were launched in April 2013 for health professionals, to raise awareness about the issue of 
            62 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
human traf˜cking and enable health professionals to identify and respond to victims more 
effectively. A copy of the tool and lea˚et are available at: 
www.e-lfh.org.uk/programmes/human-traf˜cking-e-learning/open-access-session/ 

www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/˜le/187041/A5_Human_ 
Traf˜cking_Guidance_lea˚et.pdf 
7.44 
Consequently, it may be that NHS staff are concerned that a person they are treating or 
assessing for charges is a victim of traf˜cking. OVMs should speak to their safeguarding lead 
for advice. If the patient appears to be in danger, the relevant NHS body should contact the 

police. 
7.45 
There are also charitable ‚First Responder™ organisations that are trained to identify and 
provide support to victims, and suspected victims, that can be contacted for advice. OVMs 
are encouraged to engage with these organisations to ensure that victims of traf˜cking who 

are not exempt from charges (because they are unwilling to be referred to the CA) still receive 

the support they need. The current list of First Responder organisations can be found here: 

www.nationalcrimeagency.gov.uk/about-us/what-we-do/specialist-capabilities/uk-human

traf˜cking-centre/national-referral-mechanism 
7.46 
Some victims of traf˜cking go on to make applications to the Home Of˜ce for leave to 
remain as victims of traf˜cking. They are exempt from paying the surcharge and are entitled 
to 
all
 their NHS healthcare free of charge on the same basis as an ordinary resident. They will 
have a ‚Green: Paid or exempt from the health surcharge™ banner on their record when viewed 

through the Summary care Record application. 
7.47 
The following should be provided as evidence: 
a letter from the CA con˜rming their status as a victim (a ‚conclusive grounds™ decision), or 
suspected victim (a ‚reasonable grounds™ decision) for whom the recovery and re˚ection 

period has not elapsed; 
those who make an immigration application for leave to remain as a victim of traf˜cking 

will have a ‚Green: Paid or exempt from the health surcharge™ banner on their NHS record, 

when it is viewed through the Summary care Record application, indicating their access 

to NHS services on the same basis as a person who is ordinarily resident. Note that not all 

victims will make such an application to the Home Of˜ce, so they will not all have a green 

banner indicating their status. 
Exceptional humanitarian reasons (Regulation 13) 
7.48 
This regulation allows the Secretary of State for Health to designate an individual as 
exempt from charges on exceptional humanitarian grounds, as long as certain speci˜ed 

criteria are met. This designation can only be made by the Secretary of State. It is envisaged 

that the powers will only be used very rarely, where there is a clear humanitarian imperative 

to do so (e.g. the UK is responsible for causing the injury needing treatment or there are 

humanitarian reasons for treating the person in the UK). As far as relevant NHS bodies are 
         
   
    Chapter 7. Vulnerable patients and those detained 63 
concerned, their role in the context of the Charging Regulations is to establish whether such a 
determination has been made, not to make the determination themselves. 
7.49 
The following should be noted with regard to evidence: 
the relevant NHS body will be advised that the appropriate determination has been made 
and supporting documentation will be provided (although in an emergency this may arrive 

after the patient). 
7.50 
Where such a determination is made, the person will be allowed to be accompanied by 
an authorised companion (which need not be their spouse/civil partner) and any authorised 

children, who will be exempt from charges for treatment the need for which arises while they 

are here, but not for other treatment. 
Operation of the easement clause in respect of vulnerable individuals 
7.51 
Under the easement clause, any particular course of treatment under way when either: 
an asylum seeker™s application, including all appeals, is rejected; or 
a person stops receiving section 95 support from the Home Of˜ce; or 
a failed asylum seeker stops receiving section 4(2) support from the Home Of˜ce, or 

section 21 support from a Local Authority; or 
a person ceases to be a child looked after by a Local Authority; 
a prisoner is released from prison, and 
a person suspected of being a victim of human traf˜cking is then found by the competent 

authority not to be a victim. 
will continue free of charge until that treatment concludes or the person leaves the country. 
7.52 
However, they must be charged for any new courses of treatment, although relevant 
NHS bodies are reminded that, regardless of the lack of advance payment, they must not 
withhold treatment that is medically considered immediately necessary or urgent in that it 

cannot wait until the patient can reasonably return home. They are also reminded that they 

have the option to write off debts and not pursue them when the person is genuinely without 

funds. See Chapter 8 for more details. 
Persons detained in an NHS hospital or subject to court ordered 
treatment (Regulation 18) 
7.53 
People who are detained in an NHS hospital or deprived of their liberty or subject to 
court ordered treatment are exempt from charges for the treatment speci˜ed in the court 
order and any treatment provided during their detention. This exemption applies to the 

following people: 
overseas visitors liable to be detained in an NHS hospital under the Mental Health Act 
1983 (the 1983 Act) or any other legislation authorising their detention; 
    
       64 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
overseas visitors received into guardianship under the 1983 Act or subject to a community 
treatment order under that Act; 
overseas visitors deprived of their liberty under section 4A, 4B, 16 or Schedule A1 of the 

Mental Capacity Act 2005; and 
overseas visitors required to submit to treatment imposed by a court order, other than 

those set out above. 
7.54 
The following should be provided as evidence: 
a court order; or 
evidence that the detention is authorised, in the form of a referral. 
Prisoners and detainees (Regulation 19) 
7.55 
Anyone who is in prison or in a young offender institution and anyone who has been 
detained under immigration legislation is exempt from charges. 
7.56 
They will have been referred for treatment by the appropriate authorities. 
Links and contacts for relevant support groups 
We have provided a small number of suggested links to national organisations who support 
vulnerable individuals who might be exempt from charges under the Charging Regulations 

but this is by no means intended to be an exhaustive list. OVMs are encouraged to build 

constructive relationships with those local agencies which support people in various types of 

need in their own local areas. This can be found in the OVM toolbox: 

www.gov.uk/government/publications/help-for-nhs-to-recover-costs-of-care-from-visitors-and

migrants 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-on-overseas-visitors-hospital-charging
regulations 
          
  65 Chapter 8. When to provide hospital 
treatment to those not entitled to it free of 

charge 
This chapter gives important advice on the safeguards that relevant NHS bodies 
must employ to protect the lives of overseas visitors who are not exempt from 

charges under the Charging Regulations, and guidelines on how relevant NHS bodies 

should handle such people without the resources to pay, including when to withhold 

treatment. 
What are the relevant NHS bodies™ responsibilities? 
8.1 
Chapter 2 sets out the legal obligations under the Charging Regulations of all relevant 
NHS bodies. 
8.2 
Relevant NHS bodies must also ensure that treatment which is immediately necessary 
is provided to any person, even if they have not paid in advance. 
Failure to provide 
immediately necessary treatment may be unlawful under the Human Rights Act 1998. 

Urgent treatment should also always be provided to any person, even if deposits have not 

been secured. Non-urgent treatment should not be provided unless the estimated full charge 

is received in advance of treatment. 
What is immediately necessary, urgent and non-urgent treatment? 
8.3 Only clinicians can make an assessment as to whether a patient™s need for treatment is 
immediately necessary, urgent or non-urgent. In order to do this they may ˜rst need to make 

initial assessments based on the patient™s symptoms and other factors, and conduct further 

investigations to make a diagnosis. These assessments and investigations will be included in 

any charges. 
8.4 
Immediately necessary treatment
 is that which a patient needs: 
to save their life; or 
to prevent a condition from becoming immediately life-threatening; or 
promptly, to prevent permanent serious damage from occurring. 
8.5 
Relevant NHS bodies must always provide treatment which is classed as immediately 
necessary by the treating clinician irrespective of whether or not the patient has been 
informed of, or agreed to pay, charges, and it must not be delayed or withheld to establish the 

patient™s chargeable status or seek payment. It must be provided even when the patient has 

indicated that they cannot afford to pay. 
                     66 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Maternity treatment 
8.6 
Due to the severe health risks associated with conditions such as eclampsia and 
pre-eclampsia, and in order to protect the lives of both mother and unborn baby, 
all maternity 
services, including routine antenatal treatment, must be treated as being immediately 

necessary
. No woman must ever be denied, or have delayed, maternity services due to 
charging issues. Although she must be informed if charges apply to her treatment, in doing 

so she should not be discouraged from receiving the remainder of her maternity treatment. 

Overseas Visitor Managers (OVMs) and clinicians should be especially careful to inform pregnant 

patients that further maternity healthcare will not be withheld, regardless of their ability to pay. 
8.7 
Urgent treatment
 is that which clinicians do not consider immediately necessary, but 
which nevertheless cannot wait until the person can be reasonably expected to return home. 
Clinicians may base their decision on a range of factors, including the pain or disability a 

particular condition is causing, the risk that delay might mean a more involved or expensive 

medical intervention being required, or the likelihood of a substantial and potentially life-

threatening deterioration occurring in the patient™s condition if treatment is delayed until they 

return to their own country. 
8.8 
For urgent treatment, relevant NHS bodies are strongly advised to make every effort, 
taking account of the individual™s circumstances, to secure payment in the time before 
treatment is scheduled. However, if that proves unsuccessful, 
the treatment should not be 

delayed or withheld 
for the purposes of securing payment. 
8.9 
Treatment is not made free of charge
 by virtue of being provided on an immediately 
necessary or urgent basis. Charges found to apply cannot be waived and if payment is not 

obtained before treatment then every effort must be made to recover it after treatment has 

been provided. 
8.10 
Non-urgent treatment
 is routine elective treatment that could wait until the patient can 
return home. Relevant NHS bodies do not have to provide non-urgent treatment if the patient 
does not pay in advance and should not do so until the estimated full cost of treatment has 

been received (but see paragraph 8.18). 
8.11 
The decision on whether a patient™s need for treatment is immediately necessary, urgent 
or non-urgent is 
only for clinicians to make
. However, in determining whether or not a 
required course of treatment should proceed even if payment is not obtained in advance, or 
if it can safely wait until the patient can return home (i.e. whether it is urgent or non-urgent), 

clinicians will need to know the patient™s estimated return date. 
8.12 
It is the responsibility of OVMs to gather the information on when the patient can return 
home in such cases, based on the patient™s ability to do so. It is also the OVM™s responsibility 
to establish whether or not the patient is entitled to free NHS treatment in the ˜rst place. 
How to determine when an overseas visitor patient can reasonably be 
expected to return home 
8.13 
The general principle is that overseas visitors should either return home for treatment 
that is not immediately necessary or urgent, or pay in advance of receiving it. However, 
          Chapter 8. When to provide hospital treatment to those not entitled to it free of charge 67 
in some cases it may not be possible or reasonable to expect a person to return home 
quickly enough for treatment. Clinicians will need to know when a patient can reasonably be 

expected to return home in order to decide if their need for NHS hospital treatment is urgent 

or if it can safely await their return. 
8.14 
As a condition of their entry to the UK, general visitors are required to have suf˜cient 
funds available to ˜nance their stay, and that of any dependants, as well as the onward or 
return journey. Many documented migrants have return journeys booked when they enter 

the UK. If they need treatment before that return date but claim that they cannot pay for 

it in advance, they should arrange an earlier journey home before the treatment would be 

necessary in the opinion of a clinician. If an earlier journey home would not be reasonable, 

treatment should go ahead and debts recovered afterwards. 
8.15 
Those without return journeys booked are expected to return home for the treatment 
needed, again, unless it would not be reasonable to do so. As a ˜nal resort, the date at which 
their visa requires them to leave the UK should be used as the date of return. 
8.16 
For undocumented migrant patients, including failed asylum seekers, the likely date of 
return may be unclear, and will have to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, including their 
ability to return home. Some may be prevented by travel or entry clearance restrictions in their 

country of origin, or by other conditions beyond their control. 
8.17 
For some cases relating to undocumented migrants, it will be particularly dif˜cult to 
estimate their return date. Relevant NHS bodies may wish to estimate that such patients will 
remain in the UK initially for six months, and the clinician can then consider if treatment can or 

cannot wait for six months, bearing in mind the de˜nitions of urgent and non-urgent treatment 

given above. However, there may be circumstances when the patient is likely to remain in the 

UK longer than six months, in which case a longer estimate of return can be used. 
8.18 
Where a clinician has decided that the need for treatment is non-urgent and can wait 
until the patient returns home, this should be reassessed if the patient informs the relevant 
NHS body that their return date has been postponed for valid reasons. It should also be 

reassessed if the patient™s medical condition unexpectedly changes. On being told that 

their need for treatment has been found to be non-urgent, and will therefore not proceed 

without advance payment, patients should be informed that they should present again for a 

reassessment of the urgency of their treatment if their condition changes. 
What limits should be placed on treatment? 
8.19 
While urgency of treatment is a matter of clinical judgement, this does not mean that 
treatment should be unlimited; there may be some room for discretion about the extent of 

treatment and the time at which it is given. In many cases, a patient undergoing immediately 

necessary treatment may be able to be stabilised, allowing them to be safely discharged and 

giving them time to return home for further treatment rather than incurring further avoidable 

NHS charges. This should be done wherever possible, unless ceasing or limiting treatment 

would precipitate deterioration in the patient™s condition. 
     
               68 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Recommended timeline for establishing a patient™s entitlement to free 
treatment and applying relevant charges 
8.20 
When a patient is in need of immediately necessary treatment, it may not be 
appropriate, or possible, to inform them ahead of treatment commencing that charges might 
apply, nor to secure from them an agreement to pay those charges. Patients who, after 

baseline questioning (see Chapter 11), appear not to be ordinarily resident here or not covered 

by surcharge arrangements, or who do not provide a valid European Health Insurance Card 

(EHIC) card, should be noti˜ed that charges 
might
 apply at the earliest appropriate opportunity 
and they should subsequently be interviewed by an OVM to establish this de˜nitively, when it is 

medically appropriate to do so. Patients should 
not
 be told by anyone that charges will 
not
 apply 
until their status as chargeable or exempt from charges is formally established. 
8.21 
In circumstances where it is possible and appropriate to assess charges and request 
payment before or during a course of immediately necessary treatment, relevant NHS bodies 
should make clear to the patient that treatment will 
not
 be withheld or delayed if they do not 
pay in advance. 
8.22 
If and when it is established that charges apply, the patient should be informed and 
presented with an invoice for the treatment they have received and/or an estimation of the 
charges they are liable for in respect of any future treatment. However, patients who may 

be in need of further immediately necessary or urgent treatment should not be discouraged 

from receiving it, even if they indicate that they are unable to pay. In some cases, it may be 

appropriate not to present an invoice until all immediately necessary or urgent treatment has 

been completed, but patients should nevertheless be fully informed about the charges they 

might face. 
8.23 
An overseas visitor whose need for treatment after admission from accident and 
emergency (A&E) or from a GP referral is not immediate, should be interviewed by the OVM 
at the earliest appropriate opportunity and before a course of treatment commences, to 

establish if they are entitled to free treatment or have to pay. 
8.24 
However, if it is established that the patient is a chargeable overseas visitor who claims 
they cannot pay, and this has been done before the patient has seen the clinician, 
the patient 
must 
not
 then be prevented from going on to see the clinician
, since it will be necessary 
for the clinician to determine what treatment is needed and the level of urgency. 
Only when 

a clinician con˜rms that the need for treatment is non-urgent should treatment be 

withheld
, pending payment. 
8.25 
When, after this initial assessment, clinicians consider the need for treatment to 
be urgent, relevant NHS bodies are strongly advised to seek a deposit equivalent to the 

estimated full cost of treatment during the period before treatment is to commence. If it is not 

possible to secure payment, treatment should not be cancelled or delayed. 
8.26 
However, where a clinician considers that a chargeable patient™s need for treatment is 
non-urgent, further treatment processes (e.g. putting the patient on a waiting list or booking 
outpatient clinics) should 
not
 be initiated until a deposit equivalent to the estimated full cost 
of treatment has been obtained. Any surplus which is paid can be returned to the patient 
    Chapter 8. When to provide hospital treatment to those not entitled to it free of charge 69 
on completion of treatment. This is not refusing to provide treatment, it is requiring payment 
conditions to be met in accordance with the Charging Regulations before treatment can 

commence. 
8.27 
When providing immediately necessary or urgent treatment, clinicians should be asked 
to complete an advice from doctors or dentists form which is available in the OVM toolbox at: 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/help-for-nhs-to-recover-costs-of-care-from-visitors-and

migrants 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-on-overseas-visitors-hospital-charging
regulations 
which should then be documented in the patient™s notes and a copy sent to the relevant 
service/delivery manager. 
           70 Chapter 9. How to deal with those with EU 
rights and exemptions 
9.1 
Regulation 12 of the Charging Regulations principally concerns those overseas visitors 
who are entitled to access NHS healthcare by virtue of EU rights arising under the EU Social 
Security Regulations (EC) 883/2004 and 987/2009 Œ the ‚EU Regulations™. Overseas Visitor 

Managers (OVMs), therefore, need to know what entitlements the EU Regulations provide to 

certain visitors from Europe over and above the entitlements provided elsewhere under the 

Charging Regulations. The UK can claim reimbursement for the cost of providing healthcare 

to visitors from other European Economic Area (EEA) states or Switzerland under the EU 

Regulations, if certain data is captured. A person™s eligibility under the EU Regulations will 

normally be established by production of the relevant portable document con˜rming that 

the holder is covered for their health costs by the country of issue. See the introduction and 

footnote on page 3 for an explanation of the main EU forms of interest to OVMs. 
9.2 
Regulation 13 of the Charging Regulations concerns those overseas visitors who are 
treated as if entitled under the EU Regulations and for whom no charge should 
be made. 
9.3 
OVMs also need to know of rights granted to visitors from Europe under Directive 
2011/24/EU on the application of patients™ rights in cross-border healthcare Œ ‚the Directive™. 
This can apply to pre-planned treatment. Regulation 13(1) of the National Health Service 

(Cross-Border Healthcare Regulations 2013). If a patient is exercising these rights, the health 

provider should recover the full cost of treatment directly from the patient. However, as set out 

the charge recovered from the patient shall be equal to the NHS tariff for that service, or the 

equivalent NHS cost if no national tariff exists. Regulation 13(1) of the National Health Service 

(Cross-Border Healthcare) Regulations 2013 applies here. Regulation 7(2) of the Charging 

Regulations con˜rms this and applies the same principles to all visiting patients ordinarily 

reside in EU/EEA states or Switzerland (and who are not otherwise exempt from charging): 
It is important to remember that this guidance seeks to provide as much help and advice 
as possible. However, it cannot cover everything and is not intended to be a substitute for 

the Charging Regulations themselves, which contain the legal provisions. 
Who is covered for healthcare under the EU Regulations? 
9.4 
The EU Regulations apply to all countries within the EEA, which is made up of the 28 
member states of the EU: 
Austria 
Belgium 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Chapter 9. How to deal with those with EU rights and exemptions 71 
Bulgaria 
Croatia 
Cyprus (Southern) 
Czech Republic 
Denmark 
Estonia 
Finland 
France 
Germany 
Greece 
Hungary 
Ireland 
Italy 
Latvia 
Lithuania 
Luxembourg 
Malta 
Netherlands 
Poland 
Portugal 
Romania 
Slovakia 
Slovenia 
Spain 
Sweden 
UK˝ plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway.˝ 
9.5 
Switzerland
 has a separate agreement with the EU which, in effect, applies the EU 
Regulations to Switzerland. 
9.6 
The UK also has reciprocal healthcare agreements with some other European countries, 
but these are outside of the EU Regulations Œ see Chapter 10. 

9.7 
Only ‚insured™ residents of the EEA or Switzerland are covered by the EU Regulations 
when they are visiting the UK. In detail, this covers: 
          72 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
(i)  EEA nationals, stateless persons or refugees
, plus their family members and 
survivors (irrespective of nationality) of these groups of people, 
insured
 in each case in 
an 
EEA
 country; 
(ii) 
 Swiss or EU nationals
, stateless persons or refugees, plus their family members and 
survivors (irrespective of nationality) of these groups of people, 
insured
 in each case in 

Switzerland; 
(iii) 
 non-EEA 
nationals 
 legally resident and 
insured
 in any 
EU country (except Denmark). 
Who can seek reimbursement under the EU Directive? 
9.8 
People from countries within the EEA may say they are seeking treatment that they will 
seek reimbursement for under the EU Directive upon their return to their state of residence. 
9.9 
Visitors from Switzerland are not covered by the Directive. 
9.10 
Non-EEA nationals who are legally resident and insured in the EEA are also covered by 
the Directive. 
European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) 
9.11 
With the exception of visitors from the Republic of Ireland, a valid EHIC or Provisional 
Replacement Certi˜cate (PRC) can demonstrate that a visitor (including a student) is exempt 
from charge under the EU Regulations, and therefore entitled to free NHS treatment that 

is medically necessary during their visit. 
Visitors from Switzerland or the EEA (except 
Ireland) who do not provide an EHIC/PRC must be charged for their NHS hospital 

treatment, unless they are ordinarily resident or a different exemption applies to them 

under the Charging Regulations
. 9.12 
An arrangement between the UK and the 
Republic of Ireland
 means that visitors from 
the Republic of Ireland do not have to present an EHIC to obtain free NHS treatment under 

the EU Regulations. They need only present evidence that they are resident in the Republic of 

Ireland, although a valid EHIC can be used as evidence of this. Visitors from the Republic of 

Ireland do need to be referred with an S2 for pre-planned treatment. 
9.13 
A person who has been charged because they did not provide an EHIC/PRC may be 
entitled to a reimbursement from their home state on their return. Alternatively, if they provide 
a valid PRC covering the period of treatment or within a reasonable timescale after treatment, 

they should be reimbursed by the treating NHS provider. 
9.14 
Visitors from the EEA/Switzerland may be exempt under a different exemption category 
within the Charging Regulations, for which it is not necessary to show an EHIC, and it is very 
important that this is considered before the patient is charged. EEA and Swiss nationals who 

are ordinarily resident in the UK are entitled to free treatment on that basis, but if they are 

able to show an EHIC or PRC from the EEA or Switzerland, the UK can claim back the cost 

of their treatment from that EEA state or Switzerland. It is possible to be ordinarily resident in 

the UK yet still be insured by another state. Consequently, if a patient from another EEA state 

or Switzerland presents for treatment and a relevant NHS body suspects they are ordinarily 

resident in the UK, the relevant NHS body should still ask the patient if they have an EHIC/ 

PRC and report their details via the Overseas Visitor Treatment (OVT) web portal. 
         
 
          Chapter 9. How to deal with those with EU rights and exemptions 73 
9.15 
In order for the UK to make a claim to the relevant EEA state or Switzerland for 
treating its residents, it is imperative that the data from the EHIC/PRC is recorded and 
reported to the Overseas Healthcare Team at the Department for Work and Pensions 

(DWP) via the OVT web portal (see paragraph 9.46 below)
. What treatment is free under the EHIC? 
9.16 
A person with a valid EHIC/PRC is exempt from charges for ‚all medically necessary 
treatment™, i.e. treatment that it is medically necessary to provide to them during their 

temporary stay in the UK, with a view to preventing them from being forced to return home for 

treatment before the end of their planned duration of stay. This means: 
diagnosis of symptoms or signs occurring for the ˜rst time after the visitor™s arrival in the UK; 
any other treatment which, in the opinion of a medical or dental practitioner employed by 
or under contract with a Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG), is required promptly for a 

condition which: 
Œ˙ arose after the visitor™s arrival; or 
Œ˙ became acutely exacerbated after their arrival; or 
Œ˙ would be likely to become acutely exacerbated without treatment; plus 
the treatment of chronic or pre-existing conditions, including routine monitoring. 
9.17 
It should be noted that the above de˜nition of ‚medically necessary treatment™ is different 
from the entitlement to free treatment that applies to visitors from reciprocal agreement 
countries which are not covered by EU regulations (see Regulation 14 and Chapter 10. 
9.18 
A temporary stay is a period during which someone is staying in a place other than 
the one where they usually live and they do not move their ‚centre of interest™ there. For the 
purpose of the EU Regulations and the Directive, a temporary stay is not limited to a de˜ned 

period of time and will depend on the individual circumstances of the case. 
9.19 
In the case of 
maternity services
, the EHIC covers all maternity care, including 
antenatal and postnatal care, provided the reason for the woman™s visit was not speci˜cally to 
give birth or receive maternity treatment, in which case they should 
present form S2 (former
ly 
E112), issued by the authorities in their home country, to the relevant NHS body. However, 

since not all EEA states automatically issue the S2 (formerly E112) for maternity, discretion can 

be applied if a valid EHIC is presented instead. If no valid entitlement document is presented, 

then payment will be required from the patient (unless a different exemption applies). 
9.20 
In the case of 
dialysis
, patients with valid EHICs are eligible for free dialysis treatment, 
but this is dependent on the patient making an advance booking and the facilities being 
available at the time requested. Home 
oxygen
 services are also covered under the EHIC. 
Again, patients should make advance arrangements for provision, usually with a GP practice, 

and should ensure they have enough oxygen to travel to their destination in the UK and for 

their return home. Oxygen for travel must be arranged privately and is not covered by the 

state-funded arrangements described above. The treatments that require advance booking 

may be subject to change in the future. 
           74 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
What about European posted workers? 
9.21 
Posted workers
 are those sent to the UK on a time-limited posting by their employer 
in another EEA member state or Switzerland, rather than those who have chosen to move to 
the UK to take up employment or to seek work. Posted workers here for less than two years 

should show an EHIC and a portable A1 document, which the patient carries with them. 

Posted workers who are in the UK for more than two years should be covered by portable 

document S1 but may also be classed as ordinarily resident in the UK. Regardless of their 

length of stay, if a posted worker is able to present an EHIC, this should be recorded on the 

portal. 
NB: by virtue of remaining subject to UK tax and national insurance, workers (and their family 
members) posted by the UK to another EEA country have the same right of access to NHS 

services as someone who is ordinarily resident here. 
What about European students? 
9.22 
Students
 from the EEA/Switzerland who are temporarily studying in the UK may remain 
insured in their home state. Therefore, students should be asked to show a valid EHIC/PRC. 

If˛they cannot provide a valid EHIC/PRC, OVMs will need to consider whether they are 

ordinarily resident and therefore should not be charged. 
9.23 
Students may be here for several years before returning home, so they are likely to 
require a greater range of treatments than a general holiday-maker would need. Their EHIC 
will still cover them for all treatment that it is medically necessary to provide to them during 

their temporary (albeit lengthy) stay in the UK. 
What about pre-planned treatment? 
9.24 
There are currently two potential routes for patients to receive planned healthcare in 
another EEA state or Switzerland: 
(i)˙ the long-established route under Articles 22(1)(c) and 55(1)(c) of Regulation (EEC) 
1408/71 and Articles 20 and 27(3) of Regulation (EC) 883/2004 (ﬁthe S2 routeﬂ); 
(ii) 
the more recent route under Directive 2011/24/EU (ﬁthe Directive routeﬂ Œ NB: the 

Directive does not apply to Switzerland). 
9.25 
The key difference between the two routes is that the S2 route relates only to state-
provided treatment and costs are dealt with directly between states, with the S2 acting as 

a form of payment guarantee. This means that in the majority of cases, the patient is not 

required to pay anything themselves (other than any applicable statutory charge Œ e.g. for 

prescriptions). 
9.26 
The Directive operates on a principle of purchase and reimbursement Œ patients are able 
to purchase state or private healthcare in another EEA state and seek reimbursement for this 
treatment from their country of residence up to the cost of the treatment in that country. 
          
 
 
 
 
   Chapter 9. How to deal with those with EU rights and exemptions 75 
The Directive route 
9.27 
Under the terms of the Directive, the principle of reimbursement of costs assumes 
that patients will pay the overseas provider upfront for their treatment and then claim 
reimbursement from their state of residence. The patient will also bear the ˜nancial risk of any 

additional costs arising. However, the Directive creates obligations on healthcare providers, 

which are set out in paragraph 9.30 onwards. 
9.28 
Except where the legislation in the state of residence requires the seeking of prior 
authorisation, a patient may obtain healthcare in another EEA state under the Directive without 
authorisation from their state of residence, whereas under the S2 route, 
all 
healthcare must 
be authorised in advance. 
Obligations on providers under the Directive 
9.29 
Healthcare providers in England who are providing treatment to visiting patients under 
the provisions of the Directive need to observe some key requirements. They must: 
provide patients with relevant information on treatment options and quality and safety; 
provide clear invoices and price information; 
apply fees in a non-discriminatory manner; 
ensure transparent complaints procedures and procedures to obtain redress are in place; 
apply adequate systems of professional liability insurance or similar; 
respect privacy in the processing of personal information; 
supply patients with a copy of the record of their medical treatment. 
Charging under the Directive route 
9.30 
The Directive requires healthcare providers to provide visiting patients with clear 
information on prices and clear invoices. Pricing must be non-discriminatory: providers 
cannot make up a price or seek to charge more simply because the person is a visiting 

patient seeking treatment under the Directive. Healthcare providers must therefore apply 

the same scale of fees for healthcare to visiting patients as for domestic patients. If there 

is no comparable price for domestic patients, the price must be based on objective, non

discriminatory criteria. The NHS (Cross-Border Healthcare) Regulations 2013 provide that, 

where a visiting patient receives an NHS service for which a charge can be made, the visiting 

patient must not be charged more than the amount that an NHS commissioner would have 

been charged if that service had been provided to an NHS patient. 
9.31 
If providers (including providers from the independent sector contracted to deliver NHS 
services) accept a visiting patient for treatment, they must not assume that such patients wish 
to be considered as private patients. This is because, although the patient is independent of 

the NHS system and is not referred formally by their state health system, they are exercising 

their rights under the Directive and may themselves receive reimbursement from their state 

system for eligible costs under the provisions of the Directive. At the same time, patients who 
          76 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
specify from the outset that they do wish to be treated privately may be charged in the same 
way as at the equivalent cost to private patients resident in England. 
9.32 
Similarly, primary healthcare providers should not assume that a visiting patient can, or 
should, be treated as a private patient. 

9.33 
In terms of how these requirements are met, for secondary healthcare provided by the 
NHS, relevant NHS bodies should recover the full cost of the treatment given to a visiting 
patient under the Directive. EEA states must have a transparent mechanism for the calculation 

of costs for cross-border healthcare and this must be based on objective, non-discriminatory 

criteria known in advance. To calculate the NHS cost, trusts should use the latest mandatory 

tariff (or equivalent) or the published national average reference costs at: 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/national-tariff-payment-system-2014-to-2015
9 9.34 
Providers will need to ensure systems are in place for dealing with requests for treatment 
from visiting patients. This includes processes for seeking more information about the 
patients™ conditions and diagnoses where this is not initially available, systems for dealing with 

payment direct from the patients, clear information about the services provided and the terms 

of treatment. 
Non-discrimination under the Directive 
9.35 
The in˚ow of patients from other EEA states who wish to access treatment from NHS 
providers (including those contracted to the NHS in the independent sector) raises particular 

issues for providers. While there is no speci˜c requirement on the provider to accept any 

patient, there are a number of factors that need to be considered. 
9.36 
The Directive does not require providers to accept visiting patients for planned 
healthcare if this would be to the detriment of ensuring suf˜cient access for their own patients 
with similar health needs, nor to prioritise them to the detriment of other patients, for instance 

by increasing waiting times. However, given that it is possible that providers or acute trusts 

may be contacted in advance by either the prospective patient, his/her clinician or potentially 

another country™s National Contact Point, acute trusts or other providers would need to be 

able to explain and evidence the lack of capacity, demonstrate that refusal is necessary and 

show they were not discriminating against nationals of other states on grounds of nationality if 

rejecting a request for treatment. 
9.37 
In principle, the strongest grounds for refusing a visiting patient are a lack of service 
capacity Œ however, the provider would need to consider whether the patient could be offered 
the option of joining the waiting list, to be treated alongside ﬁhomeﬂ patients on the basis of 

clinical priority. Alternatively, the patient has the option of considering a different provider. 
The S2 route 
9.38 
There are separate arrangements under Articles 22(1)(c) and 55(1)(c) of Regulation 
(EEC) 1408/71 and Articles 20, 27(3) and 36 of Regulation (EEC) 883/2004 for people from 

another EEA country or Switzerland who want to come to the UK expressly to seek treatment. 
9 This is the web link for the national tariff payment system for 2014/15. For guidance for subsequent years, 
search for ‚NHS tariff™ at www.gov.uk/government/publications 
          Chapter 9. How to deal with those with EU rights and exemptions 77 
These patients will need to obtain the prior authorisation of their social security institution, 
which bears the cost, meaning that the patient should not be charged for that treatment. 

The institution is obliged to grant authorisation only if the treatment is provided under the 

legislation of the applicant™s state of residence and cannot be made available in the state of 

residence or competent state ‚without undue delay™. 
9.39 
A person who has obtained permission from their social security institution to seek 
treatment in the UK will be issued with an 
S2 (formerly E112). They must make advance 
arrangements for their treatment and be given the same clinical priority as NHS patients Œ 
i.e.
 if there is a waiting list they are subject to it. Patients referred under scheduled treatment 

arrangements will continue to be covered for all medically necessary treatment for any other 

conditions, if they show their valid EHIC/PRC. 
9.40 
To avoid the complications that may occur if a patient authorised to seek NHS treatment 
in the UK is inadvertently treated privately, NHS hospitals and consultants are advised to 
establish when accepting such referrals whether the treatment should be at the cost of the 

patient™s social security institution or at the patient™s own cost. 
9.41 
Where an NHS hospital has agreed to accept a patient under these arrangements, 
but on arrival the patient cannot produce the appropriate form, only treatment under the ‚all 
medically necessary treatment™ de˜nition should be provided without charge (assuming they 

can show their EHIC or PRC). The patient can pay in advance for the planned treatment and 

should be charged the tariff cost or equivalent (if no national tariff exists) for the treatment. 

The patient may be able to claim reimbursement for this cost from their state of residence. If 

the relevant form is subsequently received, the charge should be refunded. If the form has not 

been received by the time the patient is discharged from NHS hospital they should be told to 

take the matter up with their social security institution. 
9.42 
The number of referred patients from 
Malta
 who are treated free under these 
arrangements is governed by a strict quota and is monitored by the Department of Health. 
Arrangements exist by which NHS hospitals are noti˜ed in advance of patients authorised to 

come under these arrangements. The Maltese High Commission in London allocates quota 

numbers to patients referred to the UK. When the quota is exhausted, further patients may be 

referred to the UK by the health authorities of Malta, but these patients should be charged for 

their treatment. 
Reclaiming the costs of treating EEA/Swiss residents under the EHIC 
and S2 routes 
9.43 
In order for the UK to make a claim to the relevant EEA state or Switzerland for treating 
their residents, it is 
imperative
 that the data from a valid EHIC/PRC (for unplanned treatment), 
or S2 (formerly E112)/or Maltese quota number (for planned treatment) is recorded and 
reported to the Overseas Healthcare Team at DWP. 
Without this data, the UK cannot make 

a claim for reimbursement
. 9.44 
All treatment carried out whenever a valid EHIC/PRC/S2 is presented (including ‚exempt™ 
services such as treatment in A&E, and including when the person with an EHIC might be 
         78 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
exempt in another way or if they are ordinarily resident) should be reported using the OVT 
portal, which every relevant NHS body can access at: 
www.ovt.dh.nhs.uk/ 
9.45 
The full cost of treatment should be recovered. To calculate the cost, relevant NHS 
bodies should use the latest national tariff guidance at: 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/ 
national-tariff-payment-system-2014-to-2015
,10 supplementing this with local tariffs calculated 
in accordance with the rules set out in the national tariff document where the treatment does 

not have a national tariff price. 
9.46 
Relevant NHS bodies should note that recording and reporting this data so that the UK 
can claim reimbursement from the appropriate country does not mean that relevant NHS 
bodies do not have to invoice the appropriate CCG. If this CCG is not invoiced, then the 

relevant NHS body will not be paid for treating the patient. 
9.47 
Full instructions on how to submit this data can be found in the Department of Health 
Finance Manual, which can be accessed via the internet at
: www.info.doh.gov.uk/doh/˜nman.nsf 
For advice on how to operate the web portal/submit data contact: 

DWP Overseas Healthcare Team 

Email: 
OHT.Overseasvisitorsteam@DWP.gsi.gov.uk 
Persons resident in another EEA country but for whom the UK remains 
responsible for their healthcare costs in their country of residence 
9.48 
Under the EU Regulations, some people who are resident in other EEA member states 
or Switzerland have their healthcare costs paid for by the UK by virtue of the UK being the 
‚competent authority™ for them. These persons will have a valid registered UK S1 in their EEA 

country of residence or Switzerland (except some posted workers, who will have a UK A1 

and UK EHIC). OVMs need to be aware that there will be times when visitors from the EEA 

or Switzerland fall within this category. Bar one group of persons, of which further details 

below, persons in this category are entitled to receive all NHS treatment on the same basis as 

someone ordinarily resident in the UK and should not be charged for treatment, except where 

statutory charges apply e.g. prescription charges. 
9.49 
As set out above, there is one group of persons within this category who are not entitled 
to all NHS treatment on the same basis as people ordinarily resident in the UK. These are 
family members of ‚frontier workers™. ‚Frontier workers™ are people who are resident in one 

EEA country but work in the UK, with a valid UK S1 registered in their country of residence. 

While ‚frontier workers™ are entitled to full NHS treatment, as explained in the paragraph 

above, their family members, also resident in the other EEA country with a UK S1, are only 

entitled, free of charge, to all medically necessary treatment during their visit here. 
10 This is the web link for the national tariff payment system for 2014/15. For guidance for subsequent years, 
search for ‚NHS tariff™ at www.gov.uk/government/publications 
                Chapter 9. How to deal with those with EU rights and exemptions 79 
Obligations on OVMs 
9.50 
To con˜rm entitlement to treatment, OVMs should, in the ˜rst instance, ask the patient 
to present a copy of their UK issued EU healthcare form (S1 or A1). OVMs will need to check 
whether there is an ‚end date™ on the form as some S1s are time-limited and entitlement to 

free NHS treatment is directly linked with the S1 form™s validity. If OVMs have any questions 

about an S1 form, they can contact the DWP Overseas Healthcare Team details below to 

make further enquiries about the form™s registration status. If OVMs are unable to con˜rm the 

patient™s status, and the patient is neither ordinarily resident here, nor exempt under another 

category under the Charging Regulations, then the patient may be liable for their healthcare 

costs. However, if the patient is able to present their valid form within a reasonable period of 

time, the Trust should consider reimbursing the patient for costs incurred. 
UK state pensioners living in another EEA country 
9.51 
From April 2015, all pensioners in receipt of a UK state pension who are living abroad in 
the EEA or Switzerland and have registered an S1 form from the UK with the local authorities 
in their EEA country of residence, and their family members, will be able to access all 

healthcare in the UK as though they were ordinarily resident and should not be charged for 

treatment. If they present an EHIC, their EHIC information should not be entered into the portal 

for reimbursement. Regulation 13 of the Charging Regulations concerns this category of 

patient. 
9.52 
OVMs can check whether a patient has a registered S1 form in another EEA country by 
contacting the Overseas Healthcare Team at: 
DWP Overseas Healthcare Team 

Email: OHT.Overseasvisitorsteam@DWP.gsi.gov.uk 
When are S2s issued by the UK for persons resident in another EEA country or 
Switzerland? 
9.53 
The UK (DWP Overseas Healthcare Team) is also responsible for issuing the S2 for 
pre-planned treatment in either the UK or another member state for the holders of a UK S1 
form (formerly E106/E121/E109) when that person lives in: 
Austria 
Denmark 
Hungary 
Slovakia 
Belgium 
Estonia 
Latvia 
Slovenia 
Bulgaria 
France 
Lithuania 
Croatia 
Germany 
Poland 
Czech Republic 
Greece 
Romania 
9.54 
All remaining EEA countries/Switzerland will continue to issue the S2 to those living there 
who have registered S1s in that country. 
               ˛ 80 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Patients™ rights and information 
9.55 
If visitors from the EEA ask for information on accessing healthcare in the UK, they can 
be directed to the following website: 

www.nhs.uk/NHSEngland/AboutNHSservices/uk-visitors/Pages/accessing-nhs-services.aspx 

9.56 
Patients can also contact National Contact Points for issues related to the Directive. 
A˛list of National Contact Points for European member states can be accessed at the 
following website: 
http://ec.europa.eu/health/cross_border_care/docs/cbhc_ncp_en.pdf 
Other European issues 
9.57 
It should be noted that: 
(i)˙ for the purposes of the relevant EU Regulations: 

Œ˙ France includes the overseas departments of Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guyane 
(French Guiana) and Réunion; 
Œ˙ Spain includes the Balearic Islands, the Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla; 
Œ˙ Portugal includes the Azores and Madeira; 
(ii) 
the territory of Denmark excludes the Faroe Islands and Greenland. However, a separate 

reciprocal healthcare agreement between the EU and Greenland allows Greenland 

nationals visiting EEA countries to receive immediately necessary treatment under state 

healthcare; 
(iii)˙ 
Andorra, Monaco, San Marino and Vatican City are not part of the EEA; 
(iv) 
EU law is suspended in the northern part of Cyprus. It only applies in Southern Cyprus. 

Therefore, visitors from northern Cyprus are not covered by the EU Regulations; 
(v)˙ 
the UK sovereign bases in Cyprus do not count as part of the UK in this context, nor as 

part of the EU; 
(vi) 
for the purposes of healthcare, relations between the UK and Gibraltar are governed 

by a˛bilateral healthcare agreement (see Regulation 14 and Chapter 10). The EU 

Regulations do not apply; 
(vii) 
though not covered under the EU Regulations, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, 

Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia have reciprocal agreements with the UK (see 

Regulation 14 and Chapter 10). 
Questions and answers 
Q: Can temporary visitors from the EEA/Switzerland who have a valid EHIC (or PRC) receive 
free dialysis? 

A: Yes, those with valid EHICs are entitled to free dialysis; they do not need an S2 (formerly 
E112). This is subject to the patient making an advance booking and facilities being available 
at the time of treatment. 
   Chapter 9. How to deal with those with EU rights and exemptions 81 
Q: Can temporary visitors from the EEA/Switzerland use an EHIC (or PRC) for maternity care? 
A: Yes, those with valid EHICs (or PRCs) are covered for all maternity care, including antenatal 
and postnatal care, providing the reason for their visit was not speci˜cally to give birth or 
receive maternity treatment, in which case they should have been referred here using an 

S2. However, for pragmatic reasons, a valid EHIC can be accepted instead of an S2 at the 

discretion of the relevant NHS body. 
Q: Can temporary visitors from the EEA/Switzerland use an EHIC (or PRC) for a termination of 
pregnancy? 
A: Women from an EEA country or Switzerland who come to the UK speci˜cally to seek 
terminations will be liable for charges unless they have obtained an authorised S2 (formerly 
E112) from their own health institutions. 
Q: A husband and wife are here from an EEA country. He needs treatment but doesn™t have 
an EHIC with him. His wife does have her EHIC. Does he need to show his EHIC to get free 
treatment? 
A: The spouse/civil partner and children under 18 of those with EHICs are exempt from 
charge under the Charging Regulations, but only in certain circumstances. If the family 
member is entitled to hold an EHIC from another EEA member state then the family member 

exemption does not apply. Therefore the husband would need either to present his EHIC (or 

PRC) or demonstrate that he is not entitled to an EHIC from the other EEA member state in 

order for the family member exemption in the Charging Regulations to apply. 
      82 Chapter 10. How to deal with those under 
reciprocal healthcare agreements and other 

international obligations 
Reciprocal healthcare agreements (non-EEA) (Regulation 14) 
10.1 
The UK has reciprocal healthcare agreements with some non-European Economic Area 
(EEA) countries. Overseas visitors who can present evidence that they are nationals, citizens 
or lawful residents of one of these countries should be treated as exempt from charges in 

respect of treatment that the relevant agreement entitles them to. 
Evidence required: 
Proof that the person is a national/citizen/resident (as appropriate) of the country and 
that they are resident in that country, e.g. passport, residence permit, identity card, 

social security card, utility bill etc. For referrals for elective treatment (see below), 

con˚rmation from the relevant country/the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) 

that the referral has been agreed. 
10.2 
Within the reciprocal agreements there are a number of variations in the level of free 
treatment afforded to visitors travelling to the UK. Generally, only immediate medical treatment 

is to be provided free of charge, to allow the overseas visitor to return home for other needs. 

Also, the agreements do not usually apply when the person has travelled to the UK for the 

purpose of obtaining healthcare. However, this is not always the case. See the table below for 

the level of free treatment by country, and other conditions that apply. 
Country 
Level of 

cover 

provided 

(see key) 
Further information 
Anguilla 
1* 
Applies to all residents of that country. Can also refer four 

patients to the UK for free NHS hospital treatment. 
Armenia 
1 Applies only to citizens resident in that country. 
Australia 
1* 
Applies to all residents of that country. 
Azerbaijan 
1 Applies only to citizens resident in that country. 
Barbados 
1* 
Applies to all residents of that country. 
Belarus 
1 Applies only to citizens resident in that country. 
Bosnia and 

Herzegovina 
3 Applies to all insured persons of that country. 
British Virgin 

Islands 
1* 
Applies to all residents of that country. Can also refer four 

patients to the UK for free NHS hospital treatment. 
   Chapter 10. How to deal with those under reciprocal healthcare agreements and other international obligations 83 
   Country 
Level of 
cover 

provided 

(see key) 
Further information 
Falkland 

Islands 
4 Applies to all residents of that country. Can refer an unlimited 

number of patients to the UK for free elective treatment. 
Georgia 
1 Applies only to citizens resident in that country. 
Gibraltar 
3 Applies only to citizens resident in that country when that 

citizen is not expected to stay in the UK for more than 30 days. 

Can also refer an unlimited number of patients to the UK for 

free elective treatment (see 10.4). 
Isle of Man 
2 Applies to all residents of the Isle of Man for a period of stay 

in the UK that has not exceeded, nor is expected to exceed, 

three months. 
Jersey
12 2 Applies to all residents of Jersey for a period of stay in the UK 

that has not exceeded, nor is expected to exceed, three months. 
Kazakhstan 
1 Applies only to citizens resident in that country. 
Kosovo 
3 Applies to all insured persons of that country 
Kyrgyzstan 
1 Applies only to citizens resident in that country. 
Macedonia 
3 Applies to all insured persons of that country. 
Moldova 
1 Applies only to citizens resident in that country. 
Montenegro 
3 Applies to all insured persons of that country. 
Montserrat 
1* 
Applies to all residents of that country. Can also refer 

four˛patients per year for free NHS hospital treatment. 
New Zealand 
2 Applies only to citizens resident in that country. 
Russia 
1 Applies only to citizens resident in that country. 
Serbia 
3 Applies to all insured persons of that country. 
St Helena 
1* 
Applies to all residents of that country. Does not include 

Ascension Island or Tristan da Cunha. Can also refer 

four˛patients per year for free NHS hospital treatment. 
Tajikistan 
1 Applies only to citizens resident in that country. 
Turkmenistan 
1 Applies only to citizens resident in that country. 
Turks and 

Caicos 

Islands 
1* 
Applies to all residents of that country. Can also refer 

four˛patients per year for free NHS hospital treatment. 
Ukraine 
1 Applies only to citizens resident in that country. 
Uzbekistan 
1 Applies only to citizens resident in that country. 
11 
The UK has a reciprocal agreement with Jersey, but not with the other Channel Islands. 
    
  
  
  
    84 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Key: 
1.˙ 
Immediate medical treatment only. 
2.˙ 
Only treatment required promptly for a condition which arose after arrival into the UK 
or became, or but for treatment would have become, acutely exacerbated after such 

arrival. Services such as the routine monitoring of chronic/pre-existing conditions are 

not included and free treatment should be limited to that which is urgent in that it cannot 

wait until the patient can reasonably return home. 
3.˙ 
All treatment on the same basis as for a person insured in the other country, including 

services such as routine monitoring of pre-existing conditions, but not including 

circumstances where a person has travelled to the other country for the purpose of 

obtaining healthcare. 
4.˙ 
All treatment free on the same terms as for an eligible UK resident (an ordinary resident), 

including elective treatment. 
For all levels of coverage, it will be for a doctor or dentist employed by the relevant NHS body 

to provide clinical input into whether required treatment meets a speci˜c level of coverage. 
* For these countries, the agreement will also apply to those persons requiring treatment if 
they are a member of the crew, or a passenger, on any ship, vessel or aircraft travelling to, 

leaving from or diverted to the UK and the need for urgent treatment has arisen during the 

voyage or ˚ight. 
Referrals for elective healthcare under the agreements 
10.3 
Under the terms of the reciprocal arrangements the exemption also applies to those 
who have been referred to the UK speci˜cally for NHS treatment. Normally the referrals can 
be made only when the countries do not have adequate facilities to provide the treatment 

needed. 
10.4 
Referrals from Gibraltar are commissioned by Gibraltar itself. Trusts should not bill back 
the Clinical Commissioning Group for treatment provided to someone referred from Gibraltar 
under the terms of the reciprocal healthcare agreement. 
10.5 
The British Overseas Territories of Anguilla, the British Virgin Islands, Montserrat, St 
Helena and the Turks and Caicos Islands can refer up to four patients each per year. In 
respect of the Falkland Islands, there is no limit on the number of referrals that can be made. 

Referral arrangements are made by the relevant British Overseas Territory through the DWP 

Overseas Healthcare Team (see Chapter 9 for their contact details). Persons hoping to be 

referred should contact the relevant British Overseas Territory in the ˜rst instance. 
10.6 
For all people who are referred for NHS treatment as per paragraphs 10.2 to 10.4 above, 
advance arrangements for their acceptance should be made and the patients must be given 
the same priority as patients living in the UK. 
              Chapter 10. How to deal with those under reciprocal healthcare agreements and other international obligations 85 
The UK™s obligations under the European Convention on Social and 
Medical Assistance 1954 and the European Social Charter 1961 

(Regulation 24(a)) 
10.7 
Nationals of countries that are contracting parties to the European Convention on 
Social and Medical Assistance or the European Social Charter are exempt from charges for 
‚treatment the need for which arises during the visit™ here when they are lawfully present in 

the UK and without suf˜cient resources to pay. Other reciprocal arrangements have generally 

superseded these arrangements, although not in the case of 
Turkey
. The regulation will apply 
when lawfully present nationals from Turkey are genuinely without the resources to pay a 

charge for their treatment. However, since visitors from Turkey are required to have suf˜cient 

funds available to ˜nance their stay, as well as their onward or return journey, they are unlikely 

to be genuinely without resources to pay, at least by instalments, or other assets, so this 

exemption is unlikely to apply. 
Examples of evidence: 

Proof of nationality and lawful presence in the UK, e.g. passport. 
Evidence of inability to pay, e.g. they are destitute. 
North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) (Regulation˛21) 
10.8 
The eligibility of NATO personnel and attached civilians stationed in the UK is governed 
by the Agreement Regarding the Status of Forces of Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty. This 
regulation provides for free treatment to be given to a person, or the spouse/civil partner and/ 

or dependent children of a person, who is serving with the armed forces of a country which 

is part of NATO.
12 The only NATO country to have bases in the UK and maintain substantial 
numbers of service personnel here is the USA, but members of the armed forces of the other 

countries may spend time on duty in the UK. 
10.9 
NATO personnel and their exempt family members are expected to use their own or 
UK armed forces hospitals, but if the services they require cannot readily be provided by 
the medical services of their own or the UK armed forces (e.g. because NHS services are 

signi˜cantly more accessible to the patient) then NHS hospital services may be provided free 

of charge. 
Example of evidence: 
Will be in receipt of appropriate documentation con˚rming NATO status. 
Employees on ships (Regulation 23) 
10.10 
People working on ships registered in the UK are exempt from charges. The exemption 
applies to any overseas visitor who is employed or engaged or working in any capacity on 
board a UK-registered ship and whose normal place of work is on board a UK-registered ship. 
12 The NATO countries are Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, 
Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, the UK and the USA. 
     86 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
See Regulation 4 for the liability for charges of those present in the UK for the purpose of 
working on a ship 
not
 registered in the UK. 
Examples of evidence: 
Proof of employment, e.g. letter from employer, contract of employment. 
Evidence of where the vessel is registered, e.g. from ship™s owner. 
Questions and answers 

Q: Is dialysis (either haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) included under the terms of the 
reciprocal agreements? 

A: Temporary visitors from all non-EEA countries with which the UK has a reciprocal 
agreement should be provided with free dialysis, if clinicians consider this to be immediate 
medical treatment. In considering this, clinicians should assess if the dialysis can safely 

wait until the patient can return home, but this may be unlikely. This is subject to the patient 

making an advance booking and facilities being available at the time of treatment. 
Q: Are maternity services included under the terms of the reciprocal agreements? 
A: Women from non-EEA countries with which we have reciprocal healthcare agreements are 
eligible to receive immediately necessary treatment in connection with their pregnancy, if an 
unexpected emergency arises, or would arise without treatment, during their visit. This applies 

irrespective of whether the pregnancy was ˜rst con˜rmed in the UK or elsewhere. Those from 

Bosnia and Herzegovina, Gibraltar, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia may also 

be entitled to routine maternity healthcare free of charge, as long as they did not travel to the 

UK speci˜cally for that treatment. However, if they come to the UK or remain in the UK to 

obtain routine antenatal healthcare or deliver their baby then charges will apply, unless they 

are speci˜cally referred to the UK under the agreement because of complications. Those from 

the Falkland Islands can receive all treatment free of charge, but referrals should still be pre

arranged with the DWP Overseas Healthcare Team. 
  Part Two Œ How to implement the charging 
rules effectively 
           88 Chapter 11. Collaborative working and 
separation of duties: the role of staff in cost 

recovery 
11.1 
This chapter explains how to operate the charging rules to optimum effect. 
11.2 
NHS Senior managers must support the charging rules, not only because relevant 
NHS bodies have a legal obligation to make and recover charges from chargeable overseas 
visitors for the services they receive, but also because it ensures that the services provided to 

overseas visitors are funded through the collection of charges rather than placing additional 

˜nancial burden on the NHS and ensures that NHS funds remain solely for NHS-funded 
patients. The recovery of charges from chargeable EEA overseas visitors also enables the 

collection of additional revenue, including pro˜t following the introduction of commercial 

charging, that will support better delivery or of a reasonable services element to all patients 

(including NHS-standard patients). 
11.3 
Senior managers must ensure the compliance of their relevant NHS body with its 
statutory duties and that legislation, guidance and advice provided by the Department of 
Health is followed. More information about the statutory duties of relevant NHS bodies in 

implementing the charging rules for overseas visitors can be found in Chapter 2. 
What a relevant NHS body needs to do 
In order to enforce their legal responsibilities, all relevant NHS bodies will need to have 

systems in place to support charging of overseas visitors, with staff who have the appropriate 

skills to: 
11.4 
Identify, without discrimination, all patients who may be liable to charges.
 This 
will involve all staff in patient administration, including A&E, outpatient clinics and wards. 
At least one person must be responsible roles for organising in the training of these on 

staff
 and the con˜guration of the Patient Administration System. Procedures must be in 
place to enable identi˜cation of chargeable patients out of normal hours (especially during 

weekends). 
11.5 
Interview people to establish if they are, in fact, ordinarily resident or, if not, 
whether they are exempt from charges or liable for charges. 
These in-depth interviews 
need to be handled sensitively and by staff who have been adequately trained to perform this 

task, including training on appropriate interview techniques and how to identify patients in a 

non-discriminatory manner (e.g. to avoid racial discrimination and harassment). The relevant 

NHS body must ensure that they have an adequate number of these staff to provide cover at 

all sites and that appropriate back-up services, for example interpreters, are available. 
    ˚     Chapter 11. Collaborative working and separation of duties: the role of staff in cost recovery 89 
11.6 
Make and recover charges from people who are not covered by an exemption 
category, providing them with a written statement of why charges apply, what the 
charge is estimated to be and how they can pay.
 Relevant NHS bodies are obliged 

to provide this statement under Regulation 19 of the healthcare Quality Commission 

(Registration) Regulations 2009 (SI 2009/3112). Where reasonably practicable, this statement 

should be given to the patient before treatment is provided. Where a person is in need of 

immediately necessary or urgent treatment it may not be possible or appropriate to provide 

them with this statement ahead of treatment. In such cases the statement should be given to 

the patient as soon as possible after treatment is provided. 
The Department of Health strongly recommends that each relevant NHS body has 
a designated person to oversee the implementation of the Charging Regulations. 

Tools˛to help staff assigned to this role are available at the toolbox: 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/help-for-nhs-to-recover-costs-of-care-from-visitors-and
migrants 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-on-overseas-visitors-hospital-charging
regulations 
The role of Overseas Visitor Managers (OVMs) 
11.7 
The OVM™s role is to see that the Charging Regulations are properly implemented 
and applied to all affected patients concerned. This will mean that OVMs have the same 

responsibilities as those described above for relevant NHS bodies. OVMs must fully 

understand the Charging Regulations, be able to communicate information about the 

Regulations to other NHS staff and patients, and identify, make and recover charges from 

chargeable overseas visitors in accordance with the Regulations.
 They must be given 

the authority to ensure that the charging rules can be properly implemented in all 

departments. 
11.8 
Staff assigned to a cost recovery role must be of suf˜cient seniority and skill to be able 
to resolve complex and sensitive situations and to deal effectively with administrative staff, 
clinicians, senior trust managers, ˜nance colleagues and members of the public, ensuring that 

all groups understand their responsibilities. 
11.9 
We advise that the OVM is best placed within the ˜nance department, to give them 
access to the full process (identi˜cation through to cost recovery) and to ensure that the 
˜nance department can more easily keep track of its responsibilities. 
11.10 
OVMs should be ready to provide more formal brie˜ng events for all members of staff 
Œ both administrative and clinical Œ who come into contact with patients, for example at staff 
induction courses. These training sessions need to be repeated at regular intervals to ensure 

that new and existing members of staff understand the work of the OVM and the role they 

themselves may have to play. 
  90 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Developing and maintaining good relationships 
11.11 
 Regular contact with local community relations organisations is valuable. These 
 organisations can be of signi˜cant assistance in communicating information about overseas 
visitors™ liability for charges to members of the community, in particular to members of the 

overseas visitor community who may have language barriers to obtaining information, or who 

are vulnerable and receiving support through those voluntary sector organisations. 
11.12 
 The success of the charging rules depends on all NHS trust staff being aware 
and supportive of the role of the OVM
. Identifying patients who may be liable for charges 
11.13 
 Administrative staff have an essential role to play in identifying people who may be liable 
for Trust charges. The vast majority of people will not be liable for charges Œ nonetheless, the 
same questions must be asked of every single patient, in every single department, whose 

chargeable status is not known, in order to identify potentially chargeable patients. We call 

these the ‚baseline questions™. 
11.14 
 The Department of Health has suggested that you use the following baseline questions 
when carrying out interviews with people. Please note that you do not have to use the exact 
wording suggested below: if you are more comfortable covering this ground in a different way, 

please continue to do so, as long as the meaning of the questions remains the same and the 

same questions are asked of all people whose chargeable status is not known. 
The baseline questions are: 
ﬁAre you a British citizen, European Economic Area (EEA) national or Swiss national?ﬂ 

 If yes: ﬁDo you have an EHIC/PRC/S2?ﬂ 
 If yes, take details. The UK can recover the cost of their healthcare (including 
A&E services). 
 If no, where have you lived for the past six months? (Those who have lived in the 
UK for the past six months are likely to be ordinarily resident here; all others should 

be referred to the OVM.) 
 If no (i.e. the person is a non-EEA national), do you have inde˜nite leave to remain in 

the˛UK? 
 If yes, where have you lived for the past six months? (Non-EEA nationals with 

inde˜nite leave to remain who have lived in the UK for the past six months are likely 

to be ordinarily resident here; others should be referred to the OVM.) 
 If no, do you have a valid visa or leave to enter/remain in the UK? 
 If yes, have you paid the health surcharge or are you exempt or waived 
from paying it? (If yes, then they are exempt from charges; if no, then refer 

them to the OVM.) 
 If no, then refer them to the OVM. 
            Chapter 11. Collaborative working and separation of duties: the role of staff in cost recovery 91 
11.15 
Administrative staff must avoid discrimination when asking these questions. More 
information is provided at paragraph 11.16 onwards. 
11.16 
These questions need to be asked every time a patient begins a new course of 
treatment at the NHS hospital and is entered onto the relevant NHS body™s records for 
inpatient or outpatient care, either on paper or computer and by either administration or ward 

staff, in order to comply with the Charging Regulations. As set out above, in cases where 

there is doubt about whether the patient is ordinarily resident, they should be referred for 

interview by the OVM. The questioner should inform the patient that he or she will be further 

interviewed. 
11.17 
This does mean that booking-in staff, ward clerks etc. will need to be prepared to 
ask for basic supporting evidence. Being unable to provide evidence does not mean that 
someone should be refused treatment, only that they should be referred to the OVM for 

further investigation. 
11.18 
The Department of Health has published a 
toolbox
 at 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/help-for-nhs-to-recover-costs-of-care-from-visitors-and
migrants 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-on-overseas-visitors-hospital-charging
regulations 
to help trusts with their responsibilities here, including standardised best practice pre
attendance forms for all patients to ˜ll in when being admitted. This form will explain that 

people should be prepared to provide certain pieces of evidence and should have a 

declaration for the person to sign, in which it is clear why the questions are being asked and 

what use may be made of the data. Checking will then be a quick and simple matter that 

need not add more than a few seconds to the booking-in process. Relevant NHS bodies 

should place this form on their intranet to be used by admissions staff, and it should be made 

available in multiple languages. 
11.19 
In some departments that cater for the very elderly or those with mental health 
problems, or when direct admission from critical healthcare is needed, the baseline 
questioning may be inappropriate or unworkable. In these cases admissions staff should still 

be aware of the possibility of people being liable for charges, and should notify the OVM of 

any patient whose chargeable status is unknown based on any non-discriminatory information 

they have (i.e. not purely on the basis of appearance, language, accent etc.). 
11.20 
Where it is established that a person may not be ordinarily resident here: 
the person should be told immediately, where possible and appropriate, that they will 
need to be interviewed to establish their eligibility for free NHS hospital treatment; 
the person who identi˜es that person as potentially liable for charges should contact the 

OVM as soon as possible and arrange for an interview to take place. Wherever possible, 

that interview should take place before treatment begins, but if, in the opinion of medical 

staff, the treatment is immediately necessary or needed urgently it should always go 

ahead without delay; 
             92 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
where it is not possible for a person to be referred for immediate interview by the OVM, 
a˛note should be placed inside the medical records to alert other members of staff to the 

person™s potential liability for charges. NB: this does not mean that treatment should be 

withheld or altered in any way. A suggested form of words is as follows: 
Patient may not be ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom 
This patient may not be ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and has been referred for 
further interview by the Overseas Visitors Team. The patient may be liable to pay for any 

treatment received. The patient has been informed. 
11.21 
In undertaking this role, administrative staff should also fully understand the ˜nancial 
implications for the trust, and why they are important. 
11.22 
The following are details of some websites which may assist OVMs in carrying out their 
duties in relation to the Equalities Act 2010. NB: this is a small sample and is not intended to 
serve as a complete list. 
NHS BME Network 
www.nhsbmenetwork.org.uk/about/priorities/ 
Equality and diversity in the NHS 
www.nhs.uk/NHSEngland/thenhs/equality-and-diversity/Pages/equality-and-diversity-in-the

NHS.aspx 
NHS National Cancer Action Team Œ Patient Experience by Equality Group 
www.google.co.uk 
Avoiding discrimination in establishing if charges apply 
11.23 
In any dealings with patients, including overseas visitors, administrative staff must 
comply with their legal duties in respect of avoiding discrimination. This includes compliance 

with the Human Rights Act 1998 and the Equality Act 2010. Further information about the 

obligations of relevant NHS bodies under these pieces of legislation is set out in Chapter 2. 

In particular, relevant NHS bodies (and staff) must not discriminate against persons based 

on their having any of the protected characteristics (age, disability, gender reassignment, 

marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion and belief, sex, sexual 

orientation) in comparison to persons without those characteristics. They must also, when 

exercising their functions, have due regard to the need to: 
eliminate unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation and other conduct 
prohibited by the Act; 
advance equality of opportunity between people who share a protected characteristic and 

those who do not; 
foster good relations between people who share a protected characteristic and those who 

do not. 
11.24 
It is therefore important that no person is discriminated against in the application of the 
Charging Regulations when establishing entitlement to free treatment. Ordinary residence or 
       Chapter 11. Collaborative working and separation of duties: the role of staff in cost recovery 93 
exemption from charges cannot be judged from external appearance, or name, or language. 
It is not discriminatory to ask someone if they are living lawfully in the UK as long as you can 

show that all patients whose chargeable status is not known, regardless of their address, 

appearance, accent, race and ˜rst language, are asked the same question when accessing 

healthcare. 
11.25 
Relevant NHS bodies need to ensure that all staff involved with the identi˜cation and 
interviewing of potentially chargeable people should be properly advised of their role and 
provided with adequate training on how to exercise the general equality duty and how to avoid 

discrimination. 
NHS trusts, ideally through an OVM, must ensure that all staff involved with the 
identi˜cation and interviewing of potentially chargeable patients should be properly advised 

of their role and provided with adequate training on how to exercise the general equality 

duty. e-learning will shortly be available via the Department of Health 
What about A&E? 
11.26 
Yes, whenever possible, A&E staff must ask all patients whose chargeable 
status is not known the baseline questions. A&E is a vital point at which to ˛ag up 
a˚potentially chargeable overseas visitor
 as it can be the ˜rst point of contact many people 

have with the relevant NHS body. A&E treatment is free to all until the patient is admitted as 

an inpatient or provided with an outpatient appointment. However, for visitors from the EEA 

who have an EHIC card, charges can be billed to the respective member state for all A&E 

treatment. 
11.27 
It is also important that visitors from the EEA are identi˜ed and asked to present their 
EHIC or Provisional Replacement Certi˜cate (PRC). Even when the treatment provided is not 
directly chargeable to patients (e.g. A&E services), the UK is still able to recover the cost of 

such treatment provided to persons insured by another EEA member state from the relevant 

member state. EHIC or PRC information should be collected by A&E departments and 

reported through the Overseas Healthcare Team web portal. Information on EEA visitors and 

the reporting process can be found in Chapter 9. 
OVMs should request a daily printout of those patients who have been admitted who 
answer positively to the baseline questions. Once referred to the overseas team 
11.28 
A relevant NHS body should ensure that all staff involved with the identi˜cation and 
interviewing of a person who may have to pay a charge for treatment are properly advised 
of their role and provided with adequate training. Staff involved in interviewing people should 

have a thorough understanding of the Charging Regulations and guidance, together with 

training and techniques for handling dif˜cult situations. Staff can sometimes be confronted 
       94 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
with distressed, angry or abusive patients and/or relatives. They should be fully trained on 
the NHS body™s policy for dealing with violence or potentially violent situations. As already 

mentioned, they should also be trained on how to exercise their trust™s general equality duty 

and to avoid discrimination when identifying chargeable people. 
Interviewing patients who may be liable to charges 
Timeliness of interview 
11.29 
It is important that a person is aware as soon as possible that there may be a charge 
for treatment. While it may not always be practicable for interviews to happen immediately, 
OVMs should ensure that a member of their team sees potentially liable patients as soon 

as they possibly can. Failure to do so, resulting in a bill being presented to a person who 

was not aware that they were liable, could result in accusations of maladministration, which 

the relevant NHS body would then have to defend. However, the fact that a person was 

not informed that charges would apply does not alter the fact that, under the Charging 

Regulations, they are still liable for that charge. 
The main interview 
11.30 
This should be undertaken discreetly and sensitively in private and, wherever possible, 
before treatment has started. The interviewer should begin by explaining that a person 
not ordinarily resident in the UK can, in some circumstances, be liable for the cost of their 

treatment. The interviewer should explain that the interview is taking place because the patient 

indicated during the process of administration (or because admissions staff have indicated) 

that he or she may not normally live in the UK, or has been unable to show that he or she 

has have the right to live here. Some people will be clear that they are not normally resident 

here, but others may dispute the assessment. The ˜rst issue to explore during the interview, 

therefore, is whether the person may be ordinarily resident. A person cannot be charged if 

they are ordinarily resident in the UK. Chapter 3 discusses ordinary residence in detail. 
11.31 
If, after questioning, the interviewer decides that the person is not ordinarily resident 
here, then that person is an overseas visitor for the purpose of the Charging Regulations. 
The˛next stage of the interview therefore needs to establish if the person is exempt from 

charges by virtue of any of the exemptions listed in the Charging Regulations, described in 

Chapters 1 and 4. 
Overseas visitors claiming exemption Œ supporting documentary evidence 
11.32 
Where a person claims to be covered by any of the exemptions, or indeed claims 
to be ordinarily resident, the relevant NHS body is required, by provision of the Charging 
Regulations, to make ﬁsuch enquiries as it is satis˜ed are reasonable in all the circumstancesﬂ 

to con˜rm that is the case. It is for the person to satisfy the relevant NHS body of the validity 

of their claim to free treatment, and the relevant NHS body is entitled to ask for supporting 

documentary evidence, as long as it does not behave unreasonably. 
11.33 
Where the person cannot support their claim, the relevant NHS body may decide to 
charge for treatment. However, in making this decision it should take account of the individual 
            Chapter 11. Collaborative working and separation of duties: the role of staff in cost recovery 95 
circumstances and judge each case on its own merits. For example, in some cases it will 
be easier for the person to provide evidence than in others. Also, just because one of the 

exemption categories is found not to apply does not mean that others will not apply. Each 

should be considered. If charged, the person can claim reimbursement at a later date 

providing that suf˜cient evidence can be produced to show that he or she was entitled to free 

treatment at the time it was given. 
11.34 
The onus is on the individual patient to provide whatever evidence he or she thinks is 
appropriate to support their claim. 
Examples of types of acceptable evidence are listed with 
each exemption from charge category in Chapter 3. These examples are only a guide and 
should not be taken as comprehensive lists. People may provide other evidence that is equally 

valid, and interviewers should be prepared to be ˚exible. Certainly, it would not be reasonable 

to reject evidence out of hand simply because it is not listed in this guidance. 
11.35 
In general, people will be able to provide satisfactory documentary evidence to support 
their claim. Where, however, the person does not have the evidence to hand, an interviewer 
may be asked to either accept con˜rmation from a reputable third party or, in some cases, 

accept the word of the person without supporting evidence. What level of evidence is 

acceptable is entirely a matter for the relevant NHS body in the light of the individual person™s 

circumstances. Providing the relevant NHS body can demonstrate, if need be, that it has 

acted reasonably in all cases, it is unlikely to encounter criticism. 
The role of clinicians 
11.36 
The success of the charging rules depends on all NHS staff, including clinicians, being 
aware and supportive of the role of the OVM. 
11.37 
It is the clinician™s role to provide appropriate healthcare for their patients and to make 
decisions on their treatment based on their clinical needs. As part of their normal practice, for 
ordinarily resident people and chargeable overseas visitors alike, clinicians have an obligation 

to consider the costs associated with different treatment options and to balance these 

against the potential for a successful outcome. It is right that clinicians are aware of the cost 

implications of providing non-urgent treatment to chargeable overseas visitors who cannot or 

will not pay when that treatment could wait until they return home. 
11.38 
Clinicians are not expected to make judgements regarding the eligibility of patients 
for free NHS hospital treatment (with the exception of con˜rming when a patient is receiving 
particular treatment that is exempt from charges), but if it is the clinician who ˜rst becomes 

aware that a person may not be ordinarily resident in the UK, they should notify the OVM 

and can, if appropriate, inform the patient that charges might apply. Clinicians and other staff 

should not indicate to patients that treatment will be free unless and until this is established, as 

a charge may have to be levied if the OVM subsequently assesses the patient as chargeable. 
11.39 
Ultimately, it is always a clinician™s decision on what treatment is needed. Whether 
the relevant NHS body then withholds or limits that treatment will depend on information 
received from OVMs on when the patient can return home (so that the clinician can decide 

if˛the treatment is urgent or non-urgent) and on the patient™s intentions on paying (so that 

non-urgent treatment does not commence without prior payment). 
             96 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
11.40 
Clinicians have three key responsibilities under the Charging Regulations: 
To take the ˜nal decision as to whether treatment is immediately necessary, urgent or 
non-urgent. More information on when treatment is immediately necessary, urgent or 

non-urgent can be found in Chapter 8. 
To con˜rm that a patient is receiving exempt services. For example, con˜rmation that a 

patient is undergoing diagnosis and/or treatment for a condition affecting public health 

and listed in Schedule 1 to the Charging Regulations or undergoing diagnosis or receiving 

treatment for a sexually transmitted infection. Information on services that are exempt from 

charges is in Chapter 4. 
To con˜rm that a patient is a victim of speci˜ed types of violence (torture, female genital 

mutilation, sexual or domestic violence). 
It is not expected that the clinician will be 
able to provide con˜rmation in all cases
, in particular in respect of victims of torture, 
domestic or sexual violence where the cause of physical injuries and symptoms may not 

be immediately apparent. The Department of Health strongly recommends that clinicians 

are advised of this important role and its implications. Further information on exemption 

from charges for victims of speci˜ed types of violence can be found in Chapter 7. 
to con˜rm the patient is ˜t to travel to return home for further treatment. 
OVMs must ensure that clinicians are aware of the important role these decisions play ˝
in the implementation of the charging rules and ensure effective management and ˝

prioritisation of NHS resources.˝ 
The role of ˜nance staff 
11.41 
Finance staff need to be aware of their role in implementing the charging rules 
for overseas visitors. In particular, ˜nance staff must understand the distinction between 
chargeable overseas visitors and private patients. Chargeable overseas visitors are chargeable 

for 
NHS services
. They should not be confused with private patients, and the cost of any 
services they are provided with will be different from the rates charged to private patients. See 

Chapter 13 on the calculation of charges for chargeable overseas visitors. The treatment of 

chargeable overseas visitors is subject to the same clinical priority as other NHS patients. The 

beds they occupy are not pay beds and consultants cannot charge them for their services. 
11.42 
It is important that overseas visitors who are liable to charges are identi˜ed as early 
as possible in their dealings with the NHS hospital in order to reduce the incidence of failure 
to pay, and to protect NHS resources. In the context of charging overseas visitors, the point 

at which to charge can be considered in terms of the urgency of the treatment needed. See 

Chapter 4 for more details. 
   Chapter 11. Collaborative working and separation of duties: the role of staff in cost recovery 97 









 
  
 
 
 
      
      
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
  
 
          
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
  
 11.43 
 Finance departments need to ensure that they are able to issue invoices promptly, 
perhaps at very short notice, in order to ensure that the invoice can be presented, wherever 
possible, before the patient leaves the NHS hospital. Some relevant NHS bodies have had 

success with the installation of a portable 
credit card machine
, to take to the patient before 
they are discharged. 
In summary
: The role of GPs and primary care 
11.44 
 GPs have discretion to accept any person, including overseas visitors, to be either fully 
registered as a measure of an NHS patient, or as a temporary resident if they are to be in an 
area for between 24 hours and three months. No registration application can be refused on 

the grounds of race, gender, class, age, religion, sexual orientation, appearance, diversity or 

medical condition.  In reality, this means that the practice™s discretion to refuse a patient is 

limited. There is no minimum period that a person needs to have been in the UK before a GP 

can register them. Furthermore, GPs have a duty to provide free of charge treatment which 

they consider to be immediately necessary or emergency, regardless of whether that person 

is an overseas visitor or registered with that practice. 
11.45 
 Being registered with a GP, or having an NHS number, does not give a person 
automatic entitlement to access free NHS hospital treatment. 
         98 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
OVMs should ensure that local GPs understand this, so that they do not unintentionally 
misinform their patients regarding hospital charges and so that where possible they identify 

in the referral letter any patient that may be an overseas visitor. 
11.46 
OVMs should consider establishing formal contacts with local GPs to aid this process, 
which can be used by them as a useful tool in identifying potential chargeable overseas 
visitors who have to pay for treatment. GP surgeries could also be encouraged to display 

posters regarding entitlement to NHS hospital treatment. 
11.47 
GPs should not be discouraged from referring their patients
 to the relevant NHS 
body. It is the relevant NHS body™s duty, not the GP™s, to establish entitlement for free NHS 
hospital treatment. Furthermore, neither relevant NHS bodies nor anyone acting on their 

behalf should imply that a particular patient should not be registered with a GP practice as 

that is exclusively a matter for that GP. 
11.48 
Charges only apply under the Charging Regulations for services provided in an NHS 
hospital or, when provided outside an NHS hospital, by staff employed by, or under direction 
of, an NHS hospital. However, GPs are encouraged to help inform this process by indicating 

on referral letters when they understand a patient is not OR, or is an EHIC holder, and inform 

patients that they may be chargeable for some hospital services. Therefore services provided 

an NHS in the community cannot be charged for unless provided although it is by hospital-

employed/directed staff. 
Other issues within the charging rules 
Referrals by one NHS body to another 
11.49 
It is the duty of the relevant NHS body providing treatment to establish whether that 
treatment will be free to the person and to make and recover charges where that person 
is liable. This is equally the case where a person is referred from one relevant NHS body to 

another. The relevant NHS body receiving the person should assess for eligibility and make 

and recover charges as appropriate. 
11.50 
A relevant NHS body should not refuse to accept and treat a person on the grounds 
that they are currently a chargeable overseas visitor at another relevant NHS body and that 
they have not paid for their treatment. If clinicians refer a person to a relevant NHS body then 

that NHS body should treat the patient and apply the charging rules in the usual manner. If the 

treatment they need at the second NHS body is considered by its clinicians to be non-urgent, 

then it can be withheld until payment is received. 
Other statutory NHS charges 
11.51 
An overseas visitor exempt from charges under the Charging Regulations is normally 
liable for other statutory NHS charges, such as those for prescriptions, on the same basis as 
someone ordinarily resident in the UK. However, some charge-exempt patients will also be 

exempt from statutory prescription charges, for example asylum seekers, and will be issued 

with an 
HC2 
certi˜cate for full help with health costs. However, having an HC2 does not in 
          
  Chapter 11. Collaborative working and separation of duties: the role of staff in cost recovery 99 
itself mean the patient is exempt from charges under the Charging Regulations. Information 
on other statutory charges can be found at: 

www.nhs.uk/NHSEngland/Healthcosts/Pages/Abouthealthcosts.aspx 
Fraud Œ NHS Protect 
11.52 
NHS Protect has national responsibility to lead work on protecting NHS staff and 
resources from crime. It has responsibility for tackling fraud, bribery, corruption, criminal 
damage, theft and other unlawful actions such as market-˜xing. 
11.53 
When there is a suspicion that an overseas visitor is attempting to access, or has 
accessed, free NHS treatment by fraud or deception, this should be reported to the relevant 
NHS body™s Local Counter Fraud Specialist (LCFS), the NHS Fraud and Corruption Reporting 

Line on 0800 028 40 60 or online at 
http://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/fraud
. The LCFS and/or NHS 
Protect will undertake an investigation and seek to apply criminal and civil sanctions, where 

appropriate. 
Patient con˜dentiality and data sharing 
11.54 
Relevant NHS bodies have legal obligations under the Data Protection Act 1998 (DPA) 
in relation to the sharing and storing of a patient™s data. The sharing of data in the two main 
examples discussed in this chapter has been found by the High Court to be compliant with 

the DPA. The principles of patient con˜dentiality are also very important to the NHS and are 

the basis of the doctor/patient relationship. However, non-clinical data about a patient is not 

con˜dential information, so can be shared by NHS staff without the patient™s consent for the 

purposes of the two main examples. 
11.55 
There may be circumstances other than when ful˜lling their statutory function of making 
and recovering charges where relevant NHS bodies feel they should share data Œ which 
might include con˜dential data Œ about a patient without their consent. For instance, an NHS 

hospital may become aware that a patient may be here without proper authorisation and 

may consider informing the Home Of˜ce of this, or the Home Of˜ce may request details of a 

patient™s medical condition to assess if they have any particular requirements whilst the Home 

Of˜ce are investigating them in their care. More information on working with the Home Of˜ce 

is available in Chapter 12. A decision would need to be taken in the full light of the patient™s 

circumstances before data is shared without a patient™s consent. Generally, the NHS should 

not share patient data with third party agencies without the patient™s consent except where: 
they are required to do so by law (e.g. where a court order has been made); 
they have special permission for health or research purposes; or 
there is an overriding public interest to do so (e.g. where the police are investigating 
a˛serious crime). 
11.56 
It is important that each case should be judged on its own merits. Relevant NHS 
bodies are encouraged to seek legal advice as to whether the sharing of that information is 

lawful and each case should be discussed with the relevant NHS body™s Caldicott Guardian 

before a decision is taken. 
    100 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
11.57 
In the context of this document, trusts are allowed to share non-clinical data with third 
parties without the patient™s consent when it is to determine if they are chargeable and to 
report chargeable non-EEA patients with a debt of £1,000 or more (see Chapter 13). 
Complaints 
11.58 
Where an NHS patient is unhappy with the healthcare they have received, it is right 
that they, or someone on their behalf and with their consent, can use the NHS complaints 
procedure. OVMs need to ensure that they and patients charged for NHS services are 

aware of the complaints procedure and that there are effective operational links with the 

organisation™s complaints manager that re˚ect the extant guidance on managing complaints. 
            101 Chapter 12. Working with the Home Of˜ce˝ 
Using the Home Of˜ce for advice 
12.1 
There may be occasions where patients produce entry clearance documents that are 
not familiar to Overseas Visitor Managers (OVMs). Useful information can be found on the UK 
Immigration and Visas pages of GOV.UK: 
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/uk-visas

and-immigration 
Sharing data to determine a patient™s immigration status 
12.2 
When other avenues of establishing entitlement have been exhausted, it may be 
necessary to establish the immigration status of a person. This might include (but is not limited 

to) establishing whether a failed asylum seeker has exhausted all their appeal processes 

and whether or not they are receiving section 4(2) or section 95 support, or cases where an 

NHS hospital comes across a person who appears to be in the country without the proper 

authority. Enquiries about a patient™s immigration status should be sent securely via email to 

the Home Of˜ce™s Evidence and Enquiry (EE) Unit. Please note that the Home Of˜ce 
cannot 

advise on how this information affects the patient™s liability for charges. 
12.3 
The recent High Court judgment
13 con˜rmed that the NHS is 
not 
required to obtain 
consent from a patient before sharing non-clinical data with the Home Of˜ce for the purposes 
of determining the patient™s immigration status. However, the NHS should notify the patient 

that their data is being shared, and how this data may or will be used. You are not required to 

keep a signed record of the patient™s consent for your records, although you are encouraged 

to provide the patient with the information lea˚et known as ﬁ
Information for patients: why your 
data has been shared with the Home Of˚ce
ﬂ, which is part of the OVM toolbox. It is also best 
practice to keep a note recording that this has been done. For further information on patient 

con˜dentiality, see Chapter 11. It still remains the case that under 
no circumstances
 should 

any clinical data be divulged when seeking immigration status information from the Home 

Of˜ce. 
12.4 
NHS staff using this service 
must
 ensure that the data they send outside of the NHS 
to government departments and agencies is via a secure route. For email, this means being 
sent from an email account which ends 
nhs.net 
as these have inbuilt encryption technology. 
The Home Of˜ce will not accept emails which do not come from these accounts, nor will they 

accept emails from unrecognised persons or from non-relevant NHS body staff. It is therefore 

important that you inform the Department of Health Overseas Visitors Policy Team of any 

changes to personnel, so that the Home Of˜ce can be kept updated of their nhs.net email 
13 R (on the application of W, X, Y and Z) v Secretary of State for Health [2014] EWHC 1532 (Admin). 
        102 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
accounts. You can send this information to the Department of Health Overseas Visitors Policy 
Team via email: 
overseasvisitors@dh.gsi.gov.uk 
12.5 
A new EE pro forma, developed by the Home Of˜ce and tested by OVMs, is now 
available in the OVM toolbox: 

www.gov.uk/government/publications/help-for-nhs-to-recover-costs-of-care-from-visitors-and
migrants 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-on-overseas-visitors-hospital-charging
regulations 
The EE pro forma has been designed to be used by all government departments and 
agencies Œ including NHS providers Œ who require information on an individual™s immigration 

status. By having a single form, the EE Unit is now able to process information requests much 

quicker than previously Œ now within ˜ve working days. Should the information not be received 

after ˜ve days, please send another email marked ‚second request™, which will be dealt with 

as a priority. 
12.6 
To establish a patient™s immigration status, you should send the completed EE form via 
secure email to the Home Of˜ce™s EE Unit: 
evidenceandenquiryunit@homeof˜ce.gsi.gov.uk
. Once an immigration status is established, for any follow up action or more detailed enquiries 
you should contact the Home Of˜ce Interventions and Sanctions Unit: 
I&SDReferrals@ 

homeof˜ce.gsi.gov.uk
 (please note the new email address). 
12.7 
The EE Unit now manages all initial status check enquiries. You should be aware that in 
some cases the data you share could be used to update Home Of˜ce records and, if 

applicable, may be used for the enforcement of immigration control. Your Local Partnership 

Manager may then contact you directly to discuss the patient™s circumstances. Before sharing 

any data other than the non-clinical data already provided to the Home Of˜ce, you should 

ensure that your trust seeks its own legal advice. 
You do not require a patient™s express permission to share their non-clinical data with the 
Home Of˜ce for the purpose of establishing if they are chargeable. However, it remains 
best practice to 
inform 
the patient that you have done so and why, and to keep a record of 
having done so. 
Sharing data on those with debts to the NHS of £1,000 or more 
12.8 
NHS bodies (or debt collection agencies working on their behalf) can share non
clinical data with the Home Of˜ce, via the Department of Health, on chargeable non-
European Economic Area patients holding a debt of £1,000 or more (once that debt has been 

outstanding for three months) with a view to better collect debts owed. The Home Of˜ce can 

then use that data to deny any future immigration application to enter or remain in the UK 

that the person with the debt might make. Patients do not have to provide their consent to 

this data being shared but NHS bodies should ensure that patients are aware of the potential 

immigration consequences of not paying a debt for which they are liable. More speci˜c 

guidance on sharing data with the Home Of˜ce for this purpose is provided in the OVM 

toolbox. NHS bodies must ensure that they pay due regard to the most recent version of the 

guidance when sharing patient data. 
       
   103 Chapter 13. Financial matters˝ 
Introduction 
13.1 
From April 2015, the Secretary of State for Health is for the ˜rst time exercising the 
power under section 175(4) of the National Health Service Act 2006 to calculate charges for 
overseas visitors on a commercial basis, which may include a reasonable pro˜t element. 

Commercial charging will only apply to overseas visitors who ordinarily reside outside the 

European Economic Area (EEA). Charges for overseas visitors who ordinarily reside within 

EEA states must not exceed the cost of providing that service to an ordinarily resident patient. 

See the introduction to this document for more details about the different entitlements of EEA 

and non-EEA individuals. 
13.2 
As a consequence of this change in the law, several categories of charging rules will 
now operate in parallel, and providers and their commissioners will require additional support 
to embed these. This chapter has been designed to help relevant NHS bodies understand 

which charging categories should be applied to which cohort of chargeable patient. Towards 

the end of the chapter, cross-cutting topics such as Value-Added Tax (VAT), translation and 

interpretation costs and calculating the length of stay are covered. 
Determining the correct charging category 
13.3 
The charging categories and the involvement of commissioners in each case will 
depend on the patient™s residency status. Relevant NHS bodies should refer to other sections 

of this guidance when determining a patient™s residency. This chapter outlines the six charging 

categories for the following types of patient: 
patient ordinarily resident in the UK (category A); 
patient an asylum seeker or failed asylum seeker supported by certain conditions (category˛A); 
patient subject to immigration control, resident in the UK and a surcharge payee (or 
exempt from paying the surcharge) (category B); 
patient ordinarily resident in another EEA State or Switzerland (categories C & D); and 
patient ordinarily resident outside the EEA or Switzerland (categories E & F). 
  104 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
     
                                              The ˜ow diagram below sets out the six charging categories that will apply from April 2015 
onwards. This chapter should be cross-referenced with the NHS England document entitled 

Who Pays?: Determining responsibility for payments to providers
14 (published August 2013) 
and any subsequent guidance issued by NHS England on the subject of determining the 

correct commissioner. The current document will be referred to as Who Pays? for the 

purposes of this chapter. 
Patient is ordinarily resident in the UK? Y N Patient resident in UK and subject to immigration control? N Y Surcharge Payees Patient ordinarily resident in another EEA state or 
Switzerland? Patient holds valid EHIC or S2 form?Y CEOV/EEAY N Patient ordinarily resident outside the EEA or Switzerland 
Patient exempt as per NHS Charging Regulations? Y CEOV/Non-EEAY N Chargeable/Non-EEA Chargeable/EEA Patient is asylum seeker or FAS subject 
to s4(2)/s21/s95 Y Standard NHS Patient Standard NHS Patient Patient exempt as per NHS Charging Regulations? CEOV/EEAY N N N Go to Category A Go to Category A Go to Category B Go to Category C Go to Category C Go to Category D Go to Category E Go to Category F 14 www.england.nhs.uk/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/who-pays.pdf
 (accessed 5 March 2015). 
 Patient resident  in UK and subject to immigration controlPaid health surchargeExempt from paying surchargeStandard NHS England commissioner charging rules apply. 
Separate recording of Category B patient activity encouragedType of treatment
RegularSpecialistCharging Category B Surcharge Payees                             Chapter 13. Financial matters 105 
Applying the correct charging rules 
Charging category A: Standard NHS Patient 
13.4 
Patients in this category are deemed to be: 
ordinarily resident in the UK (according to the domestic Charging Regulations). 
13.5 
This charging category follows the ﬁbaselineﬂ rules as set out in 
Who Pays?
 It follows 
all the standard rules that NHS providers and commissioners abide by when determining 
the responsible commissioner, as described in Section A: General Rules in 
Who˛Pays?
 Any 

patient falling into this category will be known in this chapter as a Standard NHS Patient. 
13.6 
It is important to note that the 2013 version of 
Who Pays?
 sets out the rules for asylum 
seekers as well as failed asylum seekers who are receiving section 4 or section 95 support 
from the Home Of˜ce. In these cases, the responsible commissioner is determined as laid out 

in paragraph 1 of 
Who Pays?
 (i.e. as per a Standard NHS Patient). However, under the 
new 
Charging Regulations (2015), the categories of patient that should now be managed as laid 

out in paragraph 1 of 
Who Pays?
 are as follows: 
Category of person exemption until 6 April 2015 Category of person exemption from 6 April 2015 
Anyone receiving 
s4 Home Of˜ce 

support (Immigration and Asylum 
Act 1999). Exempt from charge for 

all treatment. 
Amended: Exemption from charge is now limited to failed 

asylum seekers receiving 
s4(2) Home Of˜ce support under 

the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999. Anyone receiving 
s95 Home Of˜ce 

support (Immigration and Asylum 
Act 1999). Exempt from charge for 

all treatment. 
Unchanged: Exemption from charge remains for anyone 

receiving 
s95 Home Of˜ce support under the Immigration 

and Asylum Act 1999. N/A New: Exemption from charge now covers all failed asylum 

seekers who receive 
s21 support from a Local Authority 

under the National Assistance Act 1948. 13.7 
Any future edition of 
Who Pays?
 published by NHS England will be amended to re˚ect 
the change in the law. 
Summary: Charging category A 
Patient is asylum seeker or FAS subject 
to s4(2)/s21/s95 Patient is ordinarily resident in the UK Standard NHS England commissioner charging rules apply. 
No additional reporting or recording is requiredType of treatmentRegular Specialist Charging Category A Standard NHS Patient  Patient is asylum seeker or FAS subject 
to s4(2)/s21/s95Patient is ordinarily resident in the UK Standard NHS England commissioner charging rules apply. 
No additional reporting or recording is required Type of treatment
RegularSpecialistCharging Category AStandard NHS Patient             
                    106 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Charging category B: Surcharge payee 
13.8 
Patients in this category are deemed to be: 
resident in the UK but subject to I
mmigration 
Rules (i.e. they need a visa to live, work 
or study in the UK and are not considered to be ordinarily resident according to the 
Immigration Act 2014); 
in possession of a valid visa issued on or after 6 April 2015 permitting medium to long

term residence in the UK (typically from six months™ to ˜ve years™ duration although not 

always); and 
EITHER a health surcharge payee; 
OR exempt from paying the health surcharge. 
13.9 
For simplicity, the payment arrangements for patients who are subject to immigration 
control and have paid the surcharge, or who are exempt from paying it, should be managed 

as per a Standard NHS Patient. This category of patient is able to access NHS healthcare 

free at the point of use, except where normal charges such as prescription, optical or dental 

charges apply. 
13.10 
Providers should follow the same rules for determining the responsible commissioner 
as laid out in paragraph 1 of 
Who Pays?
 However, where possible, they should note in their 
billing where a patient has been treated under 
Charging category B
. This will be important for 
future policy making and national/local decisions on funding allocations. 

13.11 
In the case of patients who would normally fall into this category but who had their 
visa issued before 6 April 2015, they will remain subject to 
Charging category A
 until they 
next extend or apply for a new visa. Until such time, they are subject to the 2011 Charging 
Regulations and will be for the most part deemed ordinarily resident when in the UK. 
Summary: Charging category B 
Patient resident in UK and subject to immigration control Paid health surcharge Exempt from paying surcharge Standard NHS England commissioner charging rules apply. 
Separate recording of Category B patient activity encouragedType of treatmentRegular Specialist Charging Category B Surcharge Payees Charging category C: Charge-exempt overseas visitor/EEA 
13.12 
Patients in this category are deemed to be: 
not ordinarily resident in the UK according to the domestic Charging Regulations; 
ordinarily resident in another EEA state or Switzerland; and 
      ˛˛
       Chapter 13. Financial matters 107 
EITHER insured by another EEA state, and in possession of a European Health Insurance 
Card/Provisional Replacement Certi˜cate (EHIC/PRC) or an S2 form; 
OR not insured by another EEA state but exempt from domestic Charging Regulations 

(see paragraph 13.23 below). 
13.13 
The vast majority of patients in this category will be insured by another EEA state 
and therefore possess or have the right to possess a an EHIC/PRC or an S2 form. 

See˛Chapter˛9 for more information on the EHIC/PRC and the S2 route. For those not insured, 

see paragraph 13.23. 
13.14 
Typically, this category of patient will use NHS services in the UK either on a ‚needs 
arising™ basis if on a short-term visit, on holiday, or when studying here (through the EHIC/PRC 
mechanism) or on an elective basis (through the S2 route). 
13.15 
In NHS billing terms, this category is known as charge-exempt overseas visitors (CEOV) 
as set out in 
Who Pays?
 CEOV/EEA is a new sub-category to distinguish the costs related to 
patients insured by other EEA member states from those related to patients from outside the 
EEA who are exempt from charges (CEOV/non-EEA, see 
Charging category E
). 13.16 
Individuals who are either in receipt of a state pension from another EEA country or 
who are classed as ‚posted workers™ and who have been provided with an S1 form to cover 

the costs of their healthcare when living in the UK, should also be classed as an EEA/CEOV. 

See Chapter 9 for more information on the S1 route. 
13.17 
While providers should invoice their commissioner(s) for the costs of healthcare 
provided to CEOV/EEA patients (as per the 
Who Pays?
), they must also report this activity 
(EHIC/PRC or S2) and its value
 via the Overseas Healthcare portal. These reports are 
essential for the Overseas Healthcare Team to be able to reclaim the costs of NHS healthcare 

provided to such visitors from the relevant EEA member state. The income from these claims 

is a key income stream into the NHS and the relevant NHS bodies are expected to do all they 

can to properly identify and record the details of patients in possession of a non-UK EHIC/ 

PRC or an S2 form. 
13.18 
The EHIC incentive scheme was launched on 1 October 2014 to encourage relevant 
NHS bodies to report their EHIC activity. The scheme allows NHS providers to claim an 
incentive from the Department of Health worth 25% of the standard tariff for every valid EHIC 

activity report they make on the portal in addition to the cost of healthcare that is charged to 

their commissioner. For more details, see the EHIC incentive guide in the toolbox or contact 

the Overseas Healthcare Team (
oht.overseasvisitorsteam@dwp.gsi.gov.uk
). 13.19 
Charging category C
 will also include a minority of patients who are deemed to be: 
 not ordinarily resident in the UK according to the domestic Charging Regulations; 
 ordinarily resident in another EEA state or Switzerland; and 
 not
 insured by another EEA state (as evidenced by EHIC/PRC or S2) 
and are therefore subject to the Charging Regulations (see Chapter 9. They would normally 

be chargeable for NHS hospital services 
unless
 they are covered by an exemption under the 
Charging Regulations. 
 NationalTariff  
Market Forces Factor  Local modifications 100% + EEAoverseas tariff Local unit price OR+ x =          
              108 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
13.20 
If the patient falls into one of the categories of persons exempt from charge or who 
requires treatment that itself is exempt from charge under the Regulations, the patient should 
also be classed as CEOV/EEA and charged to the relevant commissioner (as per 
Who 

Pays?
). In these circumstances, the relevant NHS body is not able to report the activity on 
the Overseas Healthcare Team portal and therefore this activity is not subject to the EHIC 

incentive. 
13.21 
The majority of healthcare provided to CEOV/EEA patients will be of a ﬁneeds arisingﬂ 
nature. However, as students are eligible to hold an EHIC/PRC if they remain insured by 
their EEA home state, they could seek access to more specialist, elective or long-term NHS 

healthcare while in the UK. As such, there is no clear rule of thumb as to when specialist or 

elective treatment should be provided to EEA visitors and when this is no longer appropriate. 
13.22 
Generally speaking, if CEOV/EEA patients wish to access specialist or elective 
treatment in the UK, they should be encouraged to obtain either an S2 form from the EEA 
country which insures them or access NHS healthcare via the EU Directive on cross-border 

healthcare (see Chapter 9). Relevant NHS bodies should use their own discretion as to if and 

when to have this conversation with patients. 
13.23 
While it is good practice to assist patients to obtain a PRC (if, for example, they have 
forgotten to bring their EHIC), it is the patient™s responsibility to ensure that the correct 
paperwork is provided if they wish to bene˜t from healthcare free at the point of delivery. If the 

provider is unable to obtain an EHIC/PRC or an S2 form and the patient is not exempt from 

charges, then the relevant NHS body should apply charges (as per 
Charging category D
). The 
patient should then be provided with invoices and receipts to facilitate reimbursement from 

their home country on return. 
Summary: Charging category C 
Patient is ordinarily resident in another EEA country Standard NHS England commissioner charging rules apply. 
EHIC/S2 treatment must be reported via OVT portal 
Type of treatmentPatient holds an EHIC or PRC Patient holds an S2 form Patient holds neither card/form but is exempt from charge Regular Specialist Charging Category C EEA Charge-Exempt Overseas Visitors 
Charging category D: Chargeable EEA patient 
13.24 
Patients in this category are deemed to be: 
not ordinarily resident in the UK according to the domestic Charging Regulations; 
ordinarily resident in another EEA state or Switzerland; and 
not insured by another EEA state, and so do not possess an EHIC/PRC or an S2 
certi˜cate. 
 Patient is ordinarily resident in another EEAcountry Standard NHS England commissioner charging rules apply. 
EHIC/S2 treatment must be reported via OVT portal 
Type of treatment
Patient holds an EHIC or PRC Patient holds an S2 formPatient holds neither card/form but is exempt from chargeRegularSpecialistCharging Category C EEACharge-Exempt Overseas Visitors 
  Chapter 13. Financial matters 109 
                     They are therefore subject to the Charging Regulations. If they do not qualify as exempt 
(i.e.
 because of their personal circumstances or because of the type of treatment they are 

seeking), they are deemed chargeable at the point of delivery for NHS hospital services. 
13.25 
If patients are deemed to fall into this category, they should be asked if they have 
private health/travel insurance. If they do not possess this, or if the provider deems the 
insurance to be insuf˜cient to cover the costs of healthcare, the provider should charge the 

patient directly and provide the necessary paperwork for the patient to then manage any 

future reimbursement from their insurer. 
13.26 
 Relevant NHS bodies are reminded that healthcare that is immediately 
 necessary or urgent must never be refused, regardless of the patient™s ability to pay. 
 For more information about when healthcare must be provided and when payment should be 
requested before treatment proceeds, see Chapter 8. 
13.27 
Because of European law considerations, the Charging Regulations state that a patient 
legally resident in the EEA or Switzerland can only be charged the same rate by the NHS that 
would be charged to the commissioner if the individual had been a Standard NHS Patient 

(i.e.
 equivalent to the levels of charging as set out under 
Charging category A
). Charges for 
patients in 
Charging category D
 should therefore be calculated as follows: 
Summary: calculating the level of EEA direct charging 
National Tariff  
Market Forces Factor Local modifications 100% + EEA overseas tariffLocal unit price OR + x = 13.28 
Under 
Charging category D
, the provider will Œ from 6 April 2015 Œ be able to access 
the new chargeable patient risk-sharing mechanism from its commissioner. This mechanism 

is proportionate to the charge being invoiced to the patient. The responsible commissioner will 

pay the costs of healthcare provided to this category of patients at 50% of tariff (or whatever 

the cost of the treatment determined in accordance with the national tariff and rules). No 

further administration charges should be added. To determine the responsible commissioner 

in this regime, please refer to the new NHS England ﬁWho Pays?ﬂ supplement entitled 

ﬁImproving Systems for Cost Recovery from Overseas 
Visitorsﬂ.
15 13.29 
The exact nature of the payment ˚ows should be decided between the provider and 
the responsible commissioner (please refer to the new NHS England guidance for further 

details). However, the basic principle remains that whatever payment the provider receives 

from the patient, this is divided equally between the provider and the commissioner, until 

such time as the commissioner has fully recouped the amount it paid the provider for the EEA 

chargeable patient. 
15 This supplement had not been published by the time this guidance went to print. Please see 
www.england.nhs.uk
 for the latest details. 
 Patient is ordinarily resident in another EEAcountry Patient must pay for NHS care at standard NHS tariff rate (100%) Elective, non-urgent care should only be provided if a fullpayment is obtained prior to treatmentType of treatment
Patient holds neither an EHIC/PRC nor an S2 so subject to Charging Regs. Patient notexempt from chargesRegularSpecialistCharging Category D Charge-able EEA50% tariff 
returned 50% tariff 
retained Pays 100% tariff charge
EEAPatientProvider Charges standard NHS Tariff (100%) 
Commissioner Pays 50%  tariff  
    
 
 
               
                 
      110 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Summary: EEA direct charging ˜nance ˛ows 
50% tariff 
returned 50% tariff 
retained Pays 100% tariff charge 
EEA Patient Provider Charges standard NHS Tariff (100%) 
Commissioner Pays 50% tariff  
Summary: Charging category D 
Patient is ordinarily resident in another EEA country Patient must pay for NHS care at standard NHS tariff rate (100%) Elective, non-urgent care should only be provided if a full payment is obtained prior to treatment Type of treatment Patient holds neither an EHIC/ PRC nor an S2 so subject to Charging Regs. Patient not exempt from charges Regular Specialist Charging Category D Charge-able EEA Charging category E: Charge-exempt overseas visitor/non-EEA 
13.30 
The category of patients considered charge-exempt overseas visitors from outside 
the EEA has existed for some time and falls into the baseline allocations inherited by Clinical 
Commissioning Groups in 2013. These are patients who: 
are not ordinarily resident in the UK; 
are subject to immigration control to enter the UK; 
have not paid the health surcharge (or have not been exempt from paying it); 
are therefore subject to the Charging Regulations; BUT 
are exempt from charging, either because of their personal status or because the 
treatment they are seeking is exempt from charge. 
13.31 
This charging category would be applied to individuals such as a failed asylum seeker 
requiring treatment for an infectious disease or a non-EEA visitor who attends A&E (but isn™t 

admitted to hospital) while on holiday in the UK. 
13.32 
The relevant NHS body should refer to the 
Who Pays?
 guidance to determine who the 
responsible commissioner is and invoice them the standard NHS tariff/costs for the treatment 
 Patient is ordinarily resident outside the EEA and in UK 
temporarily  (normally < 6 mths) Patient subject to domestic Charging Regulations and is not exempt from charge Patient must pay for NHS care at Overseas NHS tariff rate (150%) Elective, non-urgent care should only be provided if a fullpayment is obtained prior to treatmentType of treatment
RegularSpecialistCharging Category F Charge-able  Non-EEAPatient is an irregular migrant   ˛    
 
 
                     Chapter 13. Financial matters 111 
(as per the charging rules applied to a Standard NHS Patient under 
Charging category A
). Providers may choose to provide treatment deemed immediately necessary or urgent only, 
encouraging the patient to seek non-urgent treatment in their home country/country of 

residence where possible. 
Summary: Charging category E 
Patient is ordinarily resident outside the EEA and in UK 
temporarily (normally < 6 mths) Patient subject to domestic Charging Regulations and considered exempt from charge Standard NHS England commissioner charging rules apply. 
Elective, non-urgent care not normally providedType of treatmentRegular Specialist Charging Category E Non-EEA Charge-Exempt Overseas Visitors 
Patient is an irregular migrant Charging category F: Chargeable non-EEA patient 
13.33 
The ˜nal category comprises patients who are: 
not ordinarily resident in the UK; 
not ordinarily resident in another EEA state; 
not subject to the health surcharge (or exempt from paying it); 
therefore subject to the Charging Regulations; and 
NOT exempt from charging under the Regulations. 
13.34 
This charging category therefore includes patients who are ordinarily resident in a 
non-EEA country (which could include UK or EEA passport holders as well as non-EEA 
citizens) or patients who are in the UK on an irregular basis (which could include illegal 

migrants, visa overstayers and failed asylum seekers not otherwise exempt from charges). 
13.35 
This is the only charging category whereby a relevant NHS body can charge a 
higher rate than the standard NHS tariff or local tariff negotiations, and is designed to 
include a reasonable pro˜t element. 
13.36 
If patients are deemed to fall into this category, they should be asked if they have 
private health/travel insurance. If they do not possess this, or if the provider deems the 
insurance to be insuf˜cient to cover the costs of healthcare, the provider should charge the 

patient directly and provide the necessary paperwork for the patient to then manage any 

future reimbursement from their insurer. There is no requirement on the relevant NHS body to 

accept insurance details if they are not assured that they will receive payment from the insurer. 
13.37 
For more information about when healthcare must be provided and when payment 
should be requested before treatment proceeds, see Chapter 8 for more details. 
 Patient is ordinarily resident outside the EEA and in UK 
temporarily  (normally < 6 mths) Patient subject to domestic Charging Regulations and considered exempt from charge Standard NHS England commissioner charging rules apply. 
Elective, non-urgent care not normally provided Type of treatment
RegularSpecialistCharging Category E Non-EEACharge-Exempt Overseas Visitors 
Patient is an irregular migrant National tariff? 
Local pricing? Actual cost? If a national tariff price exists for 
treatment, add MFF and local modifications then multiply by 150% If local pricing agreements exist, calculate the basic unit price and multiply by 150% If neither national tariff nor local 
pricing exist, calculate the actual cost of treatment and multiply by 150% NNYYY                        112 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Summary: Charging category F 
Patient is ordinarily resident outside the EEA and in UK 
temporarily (normally < 6 mths) Patient subject to domestic Charging Regulations and is not exempt from charge Patient must pay for NHS care at Overseas NHS tariff rate (150%) Elective, non-urgent care should only be provided if a full payment is obtained prior to treatment Type of treatmentRegular Specialist Charging Category F Charge-able Non-EEA Patient is an irregular migrant 13.38 
Under 
Charging category F
, the provider will Œ from 6 April 2015 Œ be able to access the 
new chargeable patient risk-sharing mechanism from its commissioner. This is proportionate 
to the charge being invoiced to the patient. Unlike 
Charging category D
, patients in this 
category are not subject to European law but instead fall under the new Charging Regulation 

7 that sets out the levels of charging to apply. 
13.39 
If treatment has begun on or after 6 April 2015, commissioners will pay the costs of 
healthcare provided to this category of patients at 75% of tariff (or whatever the cost of the 
treatment determined in accordance with the national tariff and rules). This can be based on 

the costs that are charged to the commissioner for any Standard NHS Patient. The relevant 

NHS body will charge the patient 150% of tariff (or whatever the cost of the treatment 

determined in accordance with the national tariff and rules). This is explained in more detail in 

the section below. 
Summary: Non-EEA ˜nance ˛ows 
75% tariff 
returned 75% tariff 
retained Pays 150% overseas tariff 
Non-EEA Patient Provider Charges overseas NHS Tariff (150%) 
Commissioner Pays 75% tariff  
13.40 
The payment ˚ows should be decided between the provider and the relevant 
commissioner (see 
Who Pays?
 for further details). However, the basic principle remains that 
whatever payment the provider receives from the patient, this is divided equally between the 
provider and the commissioner, until such time as the commissioner has fully recouped the 

amount it paid the provider for the non-EEA patient. 
 75% tariff 
returned 75% tariff 
retained Pays 150% overseas tariff
Non-EEAPatientProvider Charges overseas NHS Tariff (150%) 
Commissioner Pays 75%  tariff  
      
 
      Chapter 13. Financial matters 113 
Calculating the correct level of charges for Charging category F 
13.41 
Regulation 7 sets out how charges are to be calculated for chargeable non-EEA 
patients (i.e. those who fall into 
Charging category F
 as set out above). How the tariff is 
calculated depends on whether the relevant service has a national price or is a pathway 
payment service (e.g. maternity services or cystic ˜brosis) or the price is determined by the 

rules set out in the national tariff (e.g. locally agreed prices). 
Summary: Which NHS charging rules to apply 
National tariff? 
Local pricing? Actual cost? If a national tariff price exists for 
treatment, add MFF and local modifications then multiply by 150% If local pricing agreements exist, calculate the basic unit price and multiply by 150% If neither national tariff nor local 
pricing exist, calculate the actual cost of treatment and multiply by 150% N N Y Y Y National price 
13.42 
Where a service has a national price in the national tariff,
16 the overseas tariff will be the 
national price subject to any relevant: 

national variation for market forces factor; 
national variation for top-up payments; 
national modi˜cation; and 
agreed local modi˜cation. 
13.43 
Local variations to the national price for a service are 
not
 to be applied to the 
calculation of the overseas tariff. The marginal rate emergency rule, the 30-day readmission 
rule and variations to support transition to new payment approaches should 
not
 be applied. 
No other additions or inclusions (e.g. translation services, administrative costs) may be made 

to the price. The 150% tariff includes these costs in addition to a pro˜t element. 
16 
The Regulations require that calculations are made on the basis of the national tariff. Until the 2015/16 
National Tariff is published, relevant NHS bodies should calculate the overseas tariff on the basis of the 

2014/15 Default Tariff Rollover (DTR), even if they have chosen to take the 2015/16 Enhanced Tariff Option 

(ETO). 
     
   
       114 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
Pathway payment services 
13.44 
Currently, two pathway payment mechanisms exist Œ the maternity pathway payment 
and the cystic ˜brosis pathway payment. Where the relevant NHS body cannot identify the 
component price for a relevant service that is provided as part of a bundle of services, the 

relevant NHS body may set the overseas tariff on a reasonable basis having regard to the 

matters set out below: 
the price of the full pathway payment; 
the proportion of the bundle of services that the overseas visitor receives; and 
the complexity of the service provided to the overseas visitor. 
13.45 
For example, where a patient with cystic ˜brosis receives one week of NHS hospital 
treatment while in England, the relevant NHS body will need to take the following into account 
when determining the price that should be charged for the services provided: 
the price of the cystic ˜brosis pathway for the relevant band of patient complexity; 
the services provided during the one-week NHS hospital stay as a proportion of the yearly 
pathway payment; and 
the complexity of the services provided to the patient during their stay. 
13.46 
Calculation of charges must be reasonable and will vary on a case-by-case basis 
taking into account all of the relevant factors. However, the principle remains that non-EEA 

chargeable patients should be charged using the same methodology whichever relevant NHS 

body is providing the treatment. 
13.47 
If it is possible to identify the component prices for a service) e.g. for maternity services 
it may be possible to identify the price for providing the antenatal component of the pathway), 
then the relevant NHS body should calculate the price using the relevant national price as set 

out in paragraphs 13.47 and 13.48 
Price determined in accordance with the rules (locally agreed prices) 
13.48 
Where the relevant services do not have a national price and the price is locally agreed 
between commissioners and providers, the overseas tariff will be the locally agreed price 
subject to any applicable: 
 national variation for Market Forces Factor; 
 national variation for top-up payments; 
 national modi˜cation; and 
agreed local modi˜cation. 
13.49 
The marginal rate emergency rule, the 30-day readmission rule and variations to 
support transition to new payment approaches should 
not
 be applied. No other additions or 
inclusions (e.g. translation services, administrative costs) may be made to the price. The 150% 
tariff includes these costs in addition to a pro˜t element. 
              = Chapter 13. Financial matters 115 
Summary: Calculating the level of non-EEA charges 
National Tariff  
Market Forces Factor Local modifications 150% + Non-EEA overseas tariffLocal unit price OR + x Collaborative working between provider and commissioner 
13.50 
For the two processes involving payment of chargeable EEA (
Charging category D
) and 
non-EEA (
Charging category F
) patient costs by the commissioner, it is vital that a successful 
working relationship is established between the provider and the commissioner in the area 
of overseas visitor management. For the ˜rst time in the 2015/16 Standard NHS Contract, 

commissioners will be given the power to audit providers™ procedures and systems to ensure 

that providers are doing all they can to identify chargeable patients and recover the costs of 

healthcare from them. Failure to demonstrate this could result in the commissioner refusing to 

pay the provider for the chargeable EEA or non-EEA patient™s healthcare costs. 
13.51 
This is covered in more detail in the NHS England supplement to the 
Who Pays? 
guidance. 
It is strongly advised that providers and commissioners begin discussions as soon 
as possible to ensure that they both agree the easiest and least burdensome approach to 
demonstrating due diligence and invoicing the commissioner for the amounts to be paid. 

According to the chargeable overseas visitor numbers for a particular provider, this could be 

on a per-patient basis, it could be monthly or it could be quarterly. The best organisations 

to decide are those managing the payment ˚ows themselves, i.e. the provider and the 

responsible commissioner. 
13.52 
Providers and commissioners are also encouraged to agree early on the appetite 
for risk of chargeable patient debt. The organisation holding the debt is the only one legally 
allowed to decide when and if to write off any outstanding debt. However, providers will wish 

to discuss decisions involving large amounts of debt and where they have established that the 

cost of pursuing debt is not worth the investment. 
Further information on NHS chargeable patients 
13.53 
Patients treated under 
Charging category D
 (EEA chargeable patients) or 
Charging 
category F
 (non-EEA chargeable patients) are classed together in this section as NHS 
chargeable patients. 
The difference between NHS chargeable patients and private patients 
13.54 
NHS chargeable patients should not be confused with private patients, and the cost of 
any services they are provided with will be different from the rates charged to private patients. 
See the section on the calculation of charges for NHS chargeable patients. 
              116 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
13.55 
The treatment of NHS chargeable patients is subject to the same clinical priority as 
Standard NHS Patients. The beds they occupy are not pay beds and consultants cannot 
charge them for their services. NHS chargeable patients are not eligible to be ﬁfast trackedﬂ 

for services or provided with any supplementary service that they would not have access to 

as a Standard NHS Patient. 
When charges should be administered to NHS chargeable patients 
13.56 
It is important that NHS chargeable patients who are liable for charges are identi˜ed 
as 
early as possible
 in their dealings with the relevant NHS body in order to provide the patient 
with more choice in what treatment to accept and what to postpone until they return home. In 

the context of charging NHS chargeable patients, at what point to charge can be considered 

in terms of the urgency of the treatment needed. See Chapter 8 for more details. 
13.57 
Presenting an invoice to a person who was not aware that they were liable for charge 
could result in accusations of maladministration, which the relevant NHS body would then 
have to defend. However, the fact that a patient was not informed that charges will apply does 

not alter the fact that, under the Charging Regulations, they are still liable for that charge. 

Relevant NHS bodies do not have discretion to waive charges
 and where a patient who 

has received services is identi˜ed as chargeable the relevant NHS body must recover those 

charges from the patient. 
Who to charge when a patient is exempt from charges (CEOV EEA or 
non-EEA)? 
13.58 
Where an overseas visitor is exempt from charge (i.e. they fall under 
Charging category 
C or Charging category E
), then the relevant NHS body should invoice the appropriate 
commissioner as set out in 
www.england.nhs.uk/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/who-pays.pdf
. Further information can also be obtained by contacting 
England.responsiblecommissioner@ 
nhs.net 
13.59 
Where a patient is insured by another EEA state or Switzerland (i.e. they fall under 
Charging category C
), then the relevant NHS body must take appropriate steps to ensure that 
the UK can recover the cost of treating that patient. Relevant NHS bodies will need to: 

invoice the responsible commissioner as per 
Who Pays?
; and 
record and report any EHIC or PRC details to the Department for Work and Pensions 
Overseas Healthcare Team via the Overseas Visitors Treatment web portal. 
13.60 
Without this information, the UK is unable to make a claim for reimbursement for 
treating these visitors. See Chapter 9 for more details. 
Methods of payment and dealing with third parties 
13.61 
Relevant NHS bodies can accept payment by any method acceptable to them. Where 
a relevant NHS body provides treatment in advance of payment, it will be helpful, particularly 
if debt recovery action becomes necessary, to ask the patient, or someone on their behalf, to 
         Chapter 13. Financial matters 117 
sign an undertaking to pay form. However, the overseas visitor will be liable to pay the debt 
whether or not they sign an undertaking to pay form. 
13.62 
NHS chargeable patients are liable to pay for their treatment even where an 
undertaking to pay by a third party or sponsor has been received (e.g. the patient has travel 
insurance or the patient is sponsored by an employer or government). The relevant NHS body 

must decide whether or not to accept the risk of seeking payment from this third party rather 

than directly from the patient. 
13.63 
Relevant NHS bodies should be wary of dealing directly with third parties unless 
agreements have been reached on billing and currency. Some overseas insurers demand 
itemised billing or pay in local currencies which, with ˚uctuating exchange rates, can leave 

trusts with a shortfall on income. The problems will be minimised if the NHS chargeable 

patient pays the trust directly and then recovers the cost themselves. If the relevant NHS body 

has no experience of dealing with such matters it may be advisable to take specialist advice 

either from its own legal advisers or from a company specialising in debt collection. 
Pursuing overseas debt 
13.64 
Relevant NHS bodies are recommended to consider employing the services of a 
debt recovery agency that specialises in the recovery of overseas debt, except in relation to 
persons whom it is clear to the relevant NHS body will be unable to pay (e.g. destitute illegal 

migrants for whom such action may not be appropriate or cost-effective). There is some 

evidence that those who do so are signi˜cantly more successful in recovering debt from NHS 

chargeable patients residing overseas. 
Recording NHS income and debt in the accounts 
13.65 
Where any charge has been made in respect of NHS services, relevant NHS bodies 
must invoice for that treatment. It is extremely important that all invoices, together with 
recognised cash receipts, provisions made and amounts written off, are accurately recorded 

in the accounts of relevant NHS bodies. Not only does this provide important ˜nancial 

information for the relevant NHS body itself, but it also provides the Department of Health 

with emerging patterns or problems with the level of charges being recovered from overseas 

visitors and the amount of debt being recorded. Relevant NHS bodies are required to 

separately identify income payable by chargeable overseas visitors in their accounts. 
Accounting procedures 
13.66 
Relevant NHS bodies should also recognise any written off debt within the appropriate 
part of their accounts and ensure that these are shown as losses and special payments 
overseas visitors™ bad debt. It is extremely important that overseas visitor bad debt is properly 

and accurately reported in the accounts, no matter what the level of debt. It is only through 

accurate recording that the scale of unrecovered debt can be known. 
There are also some 

new accounting requirements for the ˜nancial year 2014/15 and onwards. 
13.67 
NHS bodies are now required to show separately within their accounts cash receipts 
relating to previous year income. This is where an invoice has been raised and the chargeable 
NHS patient (EEA or non-EEA) has made a cash payment in relation to that invoice. 
             118 Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 
13.68 
Also new is a requirement for NHS bodies to record the increase in provision for 
impairment relating to this category of debt in the current ˜nancial year. 
When to write off debt 
13.69 
The relevant NHS body may want to write off a debt for accounting purposes where: 
the NHS chargeable patient has subsequently died and recovery from their estate is 
impossible; or 
given the NHS chargeable patient™s ˜nancial circumstances, it would not be cost effective 

to pursue it (e.g. they are a destitute illegal migrant or are genuinely without access to any 

funds or other resources to pay their debt); or 
all reasonable steps have failed to recover the debt (e.g. the NHS chargeable patient is 

untraceable or there are no further practical means of pursuing debt recovery). 
13.70 
However, writing off the debt for accounting purposes may not necessarily mean that 
the debt is extinguished and relevant NHS bodies are still able to recover it. Debts can be 

cancelled entirely if the charges they relate to are found not to have applied in the ˜rst place. 
Further information on how to record ˜nancial information 
13.71 
Full instructions on how to recognise and record ˜nancial information within the 
accounts should ˜rst be directed to your accounts team within the relevant NHS body itself. 
However, further information on the accounting process itself can be found at: 

NHS Trusts Œ the Department of Health Group Manual for Accounts and year-end FMA 

completion guidance 
www.info.doh.gov.uk/doh/˜nman.nsf/Admin%20Views%20%5C%20 
Stubs/Whatsnew?OpenDocument 
NHS Foundation Trusts Œ the FT Annual Reporting Manual (ARM) 
www.gov.uk/government/ 
publications/nhs-foundation-trusts-annual-reporting-manual-201415 
Section 42 conditions 
13.72 
Any ˜nancial assistance
17 provided by the Secretary of State for Health to NHS 
Foundation Trusts or NHS Trusts under Section 40 or Schedule 5 of the NHS Act 2006 
comes with terms and conditions. Currently, recipients of such ˜nancial support are required 

to ful˜ll conditions around better chargeable patient identi˜cation and cost recovery. 
Further Question and Answers for NHS Chargeable Patients 
Q: How do I work out how long a patient has been an inpatient? 
A: For inpatients the day of admission and the day of discharge count together as a single 
day. Thus, someone admitted on a Monday and discharged the following Friday should be 
treated as having been an inpatient for four days. 
Q: If a patient does not have suf˜cient funds to pay for their NHS hospital treatment straight 
away, can I accept payment instalments? 
17 www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-on-˜nancing-available-to-nhs-trusts-and-foundation-trusts 
   Chapter 13. Financial matters 119 
 A: Yes, although the relevant NHS body must ensure that, wherever possible, the patient 
adheres to the agreed payment plan. Failure to do so may result in the patient™s non-clinical 
details and information about debt being reported to the Home Of˜ce and may affect future 

immigration decisions. See Chapter 8 for more details. 
Q: Should I add VAT to a patient™s invoice? 
A: No. All charges to NHS chargeable patients are exempt from VAT. 
Q: Where a patient dies without making or completing payment, can I obtain payment from 
the patient™s family or the patient™s estate? 

A: The patient is solely liable for their debt; therefore no one else becomes liable after they 
die. Relevant NHS bodies should seek repayment from the patient™s estate if possible but 
otherwise the debt will need to be written off (see paragraph 13.71). An offer from relatives or 

another person to meet the debt can be accepted but should not be actively sought, nor is 

it acceptable to pursue relatives of a deceased patient for recovery of a debt for which they 

have no legal liability. 
Q: What is the difference between a NHS chargeable patient and a private patient? 
A: Overseas visitors who are liable for charges are NHS chargeable patients. They should 
not be confused with private patients. They must receive the same priority (but no additional 
services) as NHS patients. 
Q: What if I wasn™t aware that someone was chargeable at the time, but I have since found 
out they should have been charged, can I present them with a bill now? 

A: The fact that a patient was not informed that charges apply to them at the time does 
not alter the fact that, under the Charging Regulations, they are still liable for that charge. 
However, it is important that a patient is aware as soon as possible that there may be a 

charge for treatment. Failure to do so, resulting in a bill being presented to a person who was 

not aware that they were liable, could result in accusations of maladministration, which the 

relevant NHS body would then have to defend. 
Q: What happens if I have already invoiced my commissioner for the cost of treatment 
provided to a chargeable patient who I thought wasn™t chargeable? 

A: If you have deemed the patient chargeable, you should charge them and reimburse any 
earlier payment you have received from your commissioner. Note that the commissioner may 
be required to pay the cost of the patient™s treatment until such time as you are able to recoup 

the full costs from the patient directly. 
