document.body.className + ' js-enabled' : 'js-enabled');   Skip to main content        Tell us whether you accept cookies We use cookies to collect information about how you use GOV.UK.
 We use this information to make the website work as well as possible and improve government services.
 Accept all cookies   Set cookie preferences       You’ve accepted all cookies.
 You can change your cookie settings at any time.
 Hide                     GOV.UK         Show or hide search      Search on GOV.UK      Search                         Coronavirus (COVID-19)         National restrictions in England from 5 November              The UK and EU transition         Take action now for new rules in 2021             Home   Entering and staying in the UK   Refugees, asylum and human rights   Refugee, asylum and human rights claims   Working while an asylum claim is considered           UK Visas and Immigration           Guidance     Working in the UK while an asylum case is considered    Published 21 February 2014          © Crown copyright 2014    This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated.
 To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3 or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk.
 Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
 This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/working-whilst-an-asylum-claim-is-considered/working-in-the-uk-whilst-an-asylum-case-is-considered        You will not normally be allowed to work while we consider your asylum application, except in these limited circumstances.
 If you have been given permission to work as part of another form of leave, then as long as your application for asylum was made in time (while the original leave is still valid) you will usually be allowed to continue to work.
 If you apply for asylum out of time (when you have no current leave in the UK), then the permission to work you had under your previous leave ended when your leave expired so you can no longer work.
 Most asylum applicants are not allowed to work while we consider their application.
 This is because entering the country for economic reasons is not the same as seeking asylum, and it is important to keep the two separate.
 A decision will usually be made on straightforward claims within 6 months.
 If you have waited longer than 12 months for us to make an initial decision on your claim, you can request permission to work.
 If your application has been rejected, you can ask for permission to work if you have sent us more asylum-based pieces of evidence (further submissions) which are more than 12 months old.
 This will mainly affect people who have already sent in documents - if you send them now, then you are unlikely to be able to apply for permission to work.
 If your case is being managed by a regional asylum team then please send your permission to work application to your case owner.
 If you are given permission to work, you will not be allowed to become self-employed and you will only be allowed to take up a job which is included on the list of shortage occupations published by UK Visas and Immigration.
 We will not allow you to work if you are responsible for any delay in us making a decision on your application or further submissions.
 If you are homeless or do not have money to buy food (we call this ‘destitute’) you may qualify for free housing and financial help.
 Your case owner will tell you if you qualify for this.
 For more information, see Asylum support.
 If you want to work voluntarily, without being paid, you should speak to your case owner.
 It is against the law to beg.
 Contents    Print this page         Is this page useful?
 Maybe         Yes this page is useful        No this page is not useful       Thank you for your feedback       There is something wrong with this page        Close       Help us improve GOV.UK Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
 What were you doing?
 What went wrong?
 Send       Close        Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
 We’ll send you a link to a feedback form.
 It will take only 2 minutes to fill in.
 Don’t worry we won’t send you spam or share your email address with anyone.
 \n\n If you have been given permission to work as part of another form of leave, then as long as your application for asylum was made in time (while the original leave is still valid) you will usually be allowed to continue to work.
 \n\n If you apply for asylum out of time (when you have no current leave in the UK), then the permission to work you had under your previous leave ended when your leave expired so you can no longer work.
 \n\n Most asylum applicants are not allowed to work while we consider their application.
 This is because entering the country for economic reasons is not the same as seeking asylum, and it is important to keep the two separate.
 \n\n A decision will usually be made on straightforward claims within 6 months.
 If you have waited longer than 12 months for us to make an initial decision on your claim, you can request permission to work.
 \n\n If your application has been rejected, you can ask for permission to work if you have sent us more asylum-based pieces of evidence (further submissions) which are more than 12 months old.
 This will mainly affect people who have already sent in documents - if you send them now, then you are unlikely to be able to apply for permission to work.
 \n\n If your case is being managed by a regional asylum team then please send your permission to work application to your case owner.
 \n\n If you are given permission to work, you will not be allowed to become self-employed and you will only be allowed to take up a job which is included on the list of shortage occupations published by UK Visas and Immigration.
 \n\n We will not allow you to work if you are responsible for any delay in us making a decision on your application or further submissions.
 \n\n If you are homeless or do not have money to buy food (we call this ‘destitute’) you may qualify for free housing and financial help.
 Your case owner will tell you if you qualify for this.
 For more information, see Asylum support .
 \n\n If you want to work voluntarily, without being paid, you should speak to your case owner.
 \n\n It is against the law to beg.
