A dozen invitations to speak to similar groups were proffered."
 (Margaret Sanger: An Autobiography, P.366)              Monday, December 3, 2007        The Silver Lake Conspiracy: Did Margaret Sanger, the Ku Klux Klan and Planned Parenthood Conspire to Eliminate the Black Race      In 1926, Margaret Sanger (the foundress of Planned Parenthood) was the keynote speaker at a Ku Klux Klan Rally in Silver Lake, New Jersey.
 As a result of this speech, Sanger immediately received at least a dozen more invitations to speak to similar groups.
 How do we know this?Margaret Sanger admits it in her own Autobiography:Always to me any aroused group was a good group, and therefore I accepted an invitation to talk to the women's branch of the Ku Klux Klan...As someone came out of the hall I saw through the door dim figures parading with banners and illuminated crosses.
 I waited another twenty minutes.
 It was warmer and I did not mind so much.
 Eventually the lights were switched on, the audience seated itself, and I was escorted to the platform, was introduced, and began to speak...In the end, through simple illustrations I believed I had accomplished my purpose.
 A dozen invitations to speak to similar groups were proffered."
 (Margaret Sanger: An Autobiography, P.366)Several years later, Margaret Sanger wrote the following in a letter to Clarence Gamble:"We should hire three or four colored ministers, preferably with social-service backgrounds, and with engaging personalities.
 The most successful educational approach to the Negro is through a religious appeal.
 We don't want the word to go out that we want to exterminate the Negro population.
 and the minister is the man who can straighten out that idea if it ever occurs to any of their more rebellious members."
 Margaret Sanger's December 19, 1939 letter to Dr. Clarence Gamble, 255 Adams Street, Milton, Massachusetts.
 Eighty years after Margaret Sanger's Historic speech to the Ku Klux Klan, the following situation exists:*A black baby is three times more likely to be murdered in the womb than a white baby.
 *Since 1973, abortion has reduced the black population by over 25 percent.
 *Twice as many African-Americans have died from abortion than have died from AIDS, accidents, violent crimes, cancer, and heart disease combined.
 *Every three days, more African-Americans are killed by abortion than have been killed by the Ku Klux Klan in its entire history.
 *Planned Parenthood operates the nation's largest chain of abortion clinics and almost 80 percent of its facilities are located in minority neighborhoods.
 *About 13 percent of American women are black, but they submit to over 35 percent of the abortions.
 Your IP address and user agent are shared with Google, together with performance and security metrics, to ensure quality of service, generate usage statistics and to detect and address abuse.
 ', 'key': 'blogThis', 'shareMessage': 'BlogThis!
