World's Largest English Language News Service with Over 500
 Articles Updated Daily "The News You Need Today…For The World You’ll Live In Tomorrow."
 What You
 Aren’t Being Told About The World You Live In How The “Conspiracy Theory” Label Was Conceived To Derail The
 Truth Movement How Covert American Agents Infiltrate the Internet to
 Manipulate, Deceive, and Destroy Reputations   July 13, 2016 Assassination Of
 Top US Democratic Party
 Official Leads To FBI Capture Of Clinton
 “Hit Team” By:
 Sorcha Faal, and as
 reported to her Western Subscribers A somber Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR) report circulating in the Kremlin today says
 that a top American Democratic Party staffer preparing to testify against
 Hillary Clinton was assassinated this past Sunday during a secret meeting in
 Washington D.C. he believed he was having with Federal Bureau of Investigation
 (FBI) agents, but who turned out, instead,
 to be a “hit team”—and who, in turn,
 were captured yesterday after a running gun battle with US federal police
 forces just blocks from the White House.
 [Note: Some words and/or phrases appearing in quotes are
 English language approximations of Russian words/phrases having no exact
 counterpart.]
 According to this report, SVR “electronic specialists” performing
 counter intelligence “missions/operations”
 noted on 7 July an “enormous/gigantic”
 increase of computer and telephonic traffic between the Democratic National
 Committee (DNC) headquarters in Washington D.C. and the
 Clinton Foundation (CF)
 offices in New York City.
 Upon a “deeper/broader”
 investigation into this “odd/strange”
 increase in communications between these believed to be separate organizations,
 this report continues, SVR analysts determined that the original initiating
 person responsible was a 27-year-old DNC official named Seth
 Rich who was that political organizations Deputy Director Data for Voter
 Protection/Expansion who had helped
 develop a computer program for the Democratic National Committee allowing
 people to type in their address and get a map to their polling place.
 As the “cash
 for favors” lifestyle of both former President Bill Clinton and Hillary
 Clinton have long been known about, this report continues, SVR analysts, while
 preparing to document the results of their 7 July probe into the Clinton
 Foundation concerns of DNC official Seth Rich, became alarmed when they
 discovered that his “micro computer
 system” (cell phone?)
 had become “infected/virused”
 by “killers/assassins” working for
 the Clinton’s—and who the SVR had previously documented as being involved in the
 assassination of the husband of the State of Georgia prosecutor investigating
 Bill Clinton for child sex crimes and the murder of American pop
 singer Christina Grimmie and massacre of nearly 50 gay pride celebrants.
 Fearing that the life of DNC official Seth
 Rich was in danger due to his being “tracked/targeted”
 by this known Clinton “hit team”,
 this report says, SVR Director Mikhail
 Fradkov authorized an emergency contact between his agency and the US State
 Department—but, and shockingly, when Russian diplomats presented the SVR
 findings to US authorities, on 7 July, they were immediately
 expelled from the United States.
 Causing even greater perplexity to the SVR
 about these events, this report continues, was that in expelling these Russian
 diplomats from the United States,
 the US State Department thanked Russia
 for the information stating that it would be “taken care of”, and then formally requested that the matter remain
 secret.
 However, less than 24 hour later, this report
 notes, the Washington Post wrote a “made
 up story” about what had actually happened causing Deputy Foreign Minister
 Sergey Ryabkov to publically state: “I can
 confirm that […] the US government did demand the departure of two employees of
 the Russian Embassy in Washington DC without presenting any complaints to the
 employees themselves.
 Furthermore, the State Department strongly asked us not
 to make this fact public.
 As you can see, it is customary for American
 diplomats to keep their word.”      Three days later, this report grimly states,
 SVR fears that the life of DNC official Seth Rich was in danger proved true
 when, on 10 July, he was gunned down in Washington D.C. at approximately 4:19
 am.
 According to the official US police report of
 DNC official Seth Rich’s murder, this report explains, it says: “Detectives
 from the Metropolitan Police Department’s Homicide Branch are investigating a
 fatal shooting that occurred in the 2100 block of Flagler Place, Northwest on
 Sunday, July 10, 2016.
 At approximately 4:19 am, members of the Fifth District
 were patrolling the area when they heard gunshots.
 Upon arrival on the scene, members located an
 adult male victim conscious and breathing, and suffering from gunshot
 wounds.
 The victim was transported to an
 area hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries and was pronounced dead.”      This SVR report, though, says that DNC official Seth Rich was “lured/enticed” to his murder by this
 Clinton “hit team” who portrayed
 themselves as FBI agents wanting to secretly interview him—and that the
 expelled Russian diplomats had given the US State Department “electronic access” to so that they could
 be found.
 Curiously, this report continues, US authorities, and while being able to
 track this Clinton “hit team” since 7
 July, only confronted these assassins yesterday—and who before being captured,
 engaged in a gun battle with US federal police forces firing
 their fully automatic weapons before being trapped and surrendering just blocks
 from the US Capitol and White House.
 Clinton “hit team”
 captured by US federal police forces on 12 July 2016   SVR intelligence analysts contributing to this report speculate that this
 latest assassination ordered by the Clinton’s has enraged FBI Director James
 Comey who barely a week ago allowed Hillary Clinton to walk free from her many
 crimes committed against her own government and people—and that he had no
 choice to do because of his own involvement with the Clinton Foundation while he
 was the director of the notorious HSBC money laundering bank that funneled
 hundreds-of-millions of dollars to the Clinton’s.
 FBI Director, and former HSBC Director, James Comey   To what FBI Director Comey will now allow to happen to this Clinton “hit team” who assassinated DNC official
 Seth Rich this report doesn’t speculate upon—but it does conclude with a
 presentation of the many stunning facts regarding the Clinton Foundation that
 shows it to be nothing more than a “Clinton
 slush fund” that violated an
 agreement Hillary Clinton signed with Obama regime in her failing to report
 millions of dollars given to it by foreign governments, has over 300,000
 contributors, and that the prestigious Charity Navigator organization refuses
 to even acknowledge it helps anyone but the Clinton’s themselves.
 July 13, 2016 © EU and US all rights reserved.
 Permission to use this report in its entirety
 is granted under the condition it is linked back to its original source at
 WhatDoesItMean.Com.
 Freebase content licensed under CC-BY and GFDL.
 [Note:
 Many governments and their intelligence services actively campaign against the information
 found in these reports so as not to alarm their citizens about the many
 catastrophic Earth changes and events to come, a stance that the Sisters of Sorcha Faal
 strongly disagree with in believing that it is every human beings right to know
 the truth.
 Due to our missions conflicts
 with that of those governments, the responses of their ‘agents’ has been a longstanding
 misinformation/misdirection campaign designed to discredit us, and others like
 us, that is exampled in numerous places, including HERE.]
 Chaos?
 You Want Chaos?
 OK, WE’LL GIVE YOU CHAOS!!!
 They Are Going To Come For You…Why Are You
 Helping Them?
 Return
 To Main Page
