NDA 18-651/S-025 and S-026 
Page 4 
  Dronabinol also demonstrates reversible effects on appetite
, mood, cognition, memory, and 
perception. These phenomena appear 
to be dose-related, increasing in frequency with higher dosages, 
and subject to great interpatient variability. 

 
 After oral administration, dronabinol has an onset
 of action of approximately 0.5 to 1 hours and 
peak effect at 2 to 4 hours. Duration of action for 
psychoactive effects is 4 to 6 hours, but the appetite 
stimulant effect of dronabinol may continue
 for 24 hours or longer after administration. 
 
 Tachyphylaxis and tolerance develop to some of 
the pharmacologic effects of dronabinol and other 
cannabinoids with chronic use, suggesting an indirect
 effect on sympathetic neurons. In a study of the 
pharmacodynamics of chronic drona
binol exposure, healthy male volunteers (N = 12) received 210 
mg/day dronabinol, administered orally in divided doses, for 16 days. An initial tachycardia induced 

by dronabinol was replaced successively by normal sinus rhythm and then bradycardia. A decrease in 

supine blood pressure, made worse by standing
, was also observed initially. These volunteers 
developed tolerance to the cardiovascular and subj
ective adverse CNS effects of dronabinol within 12 
days of treatment initiation. 

 
 Tachyphylaxis and tolerance do not, however, appear to develop to the appetite stimulant effect of 
MARINOL Capsules. In studies involving patient
s with Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome 
(AIDS), the appetite stimulant effect of MARINOL Capsules has been sustained for up to five months 

in clinical trials, at dosages ranging from 2.5 mg/day to 20 mg/day. 
 Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption and Distribution:
  MARINOL Capsules is almost completely absorbed (90 to 95%) 
after single oral doses. Due to the combined effects of first pass hepatic metabolism and high lipid 
solubility, only 10 to 20% of the administered dose reaches the systemic circulation. Dronabinol has a 

large apparent volume of distribu
tion, approximately 10 L/kg, because of its lipid solubility. The 
plasma protein binding of dronabinol and its metabolites is approximately 97%. 

 
 The elimination phase of dronabinol can be described using 
a two compartment model with an 
initial (alpha) half-life of 
about 4 hours and a terminal (beta) hal
f-life of 25 to 36 hours. Because of its 
large volume of distribution, dronabinol and its metabolites may be excreted at low levels for 

prolonged periods of time. 

 
 The pharmacokinetics of dronabinol after single doses (2.5, 5, and 10 mg) and multiple doses (2.5, 

5, and 10 mg given twice a day; BID) have
 been studied in healthy women and men. 
 Summary of Multiple-Dose Pharmacoki
netic Parameters of Dronabinol  
in Healthy Volunteers (n=34; 20-4
5 years) under Fasted Conditions 
 Mean (SD) PK Parameter Values 
BID 
Dose Cmax 
ng/mL 
Median Tmax 
(range), hr AUC(0-12) 
ngŁhr/mL 
2.5 mg 1.32 (0.62) 1.00 (0.50-4.00) 2.88 (1.57) 
5 mg 2.96 (1.81) 2.50 (0.50-4.00) 6.16 (1.85) 
10 mg 7.88 (4.54) 1.50 (0.50-3.50) 15.2 (5.52) 
  A slight increase in dose proportionality on 
mean Cmax and AUC(0-12) of dronabinol was 
observed with increasing dose over the dose range studied. 
 NDA 18-651/S-025 and S-026 
Page 5 
  Metabolism:
  Dronabinol undergoes extensive first-
pass hepatic metabolis
m, primarily by 
microsomal hydroxylation, yielding both active and inactive metabolites. Dronabinol and its principal 
active metabolite, 11-OH-delta-9-THC, are present in approximately equal concentrations in plasma. 

Concentrations of both parent dr
ug and metabolite peak at approx
imately 0.5 to 4 hours after oral 
dosing and decline over several days. Values for cl
earance average about 0.2 L/kg-hr, but are highly 
variable due to the complexity
 of cannabinoid distribution. 
 Elimination:
  Dronabinol and its biotransformation products are excreted
 in both feces and urine. 
Biliary excretion is the major rout
e of elimination with 
about half of a radio-
labeled oral dose being 
recovered from the feces within 72 hours as contrasted
 with 10 to 15% recovered from urine. Less than 
5% of an oral dose is recovered unchanged in the feces. 

 
 Following single dose administration, low levels of dronabinol metabolites have been detected for 
more than 5 weeks in the urine and feces. 

 
 In a study of MARINOL Capsules involving 
AIDS patients, urinary cannabinoid/creatinine 
concentration ratios were studied bi-weekly over a 
six week period. The urin
ary cannabinoid/creatinine 
ratio was closely correlated with dose. No increase in the cannabinoid/creatinine ratio was observed 
after the first two weeks of treatment, indicating that steady-state cannabinoid levels had been reached. 
This conclusion is consistent with
 predictions based on the observed te
rminal half-life of dronabinol. 
 Special Populations:
  The pharmacokinetic profile of 
MARINOL Capsules has not been 
investigated in either pediatric or geriatric patients. 
 Clinical Trials 
Appetite Stimulation:  The appetite stimulant effect of MARINOL Capsules in the treatment of 
AIDS-related anorexia associated with weight
 loss was studied in a randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study involving 139 patients. Th
e initial dosage of MARINOL Capsules in all 
patients was 5 mg/day, administered in doses of 
2.5 mg one hour before lu
nch and one hour before 
supper. In pilot studies, early morning administrati
on of MARINOL Capsules appeared to have been 
associated with an increased frequency of adverse ex
periences, as compared to dosing later in the day. 
The effect of MARINOL Capsules on appetite, weight
, mood, and nausea was measured at scheduled 
intervals during the six-week treatment period. Si
de effects (feeling high, dizziness, confusion, 
somnolence) occurred in 13 of 72 patients (18%) at
 this dosage level and the dosage was reduced to 
2.5 mg/day, administered as a si
ngle dose at supper or bedtime. 
 
  Of the 112 patients that completed at least 2 
visits in the randomized, double-blind, placebo-
controlled study, 99 patients had 
appetite data at 4-weeks (50 
received MARINOL and 49 received 
placebo) and 91 patients had appetite data at 6-weeks (46 received MARINOL and 45 received 

placebo). A statistically significant difference between MARINOL Capsules and placebo was seen in 

appetite as measured by the visual analog scale at
 weeks 4 and 6 (see figure). Trends toward improved 
body weight and mood, and decreases in nausea were also seen. 

 
 After completing the 6-week study, patients were allowed to continue treatment with MARINOL 
Capsules in an open-label study, in which there was a sustained improvement in appetite. 
 NDA 18-651/S-025 and S-026 
Page 6 
   Antiemetic:
  MARINOL Capsules treatment of chemothera
py-induced emesis was evaluated in 454 
patients with cancer, who received a total of 750 c
ourses of treatment of va
rious malignancies. The 
antiemetic efficacy of MARINOL Capsules was greatest in patients receiving cytotoxic therapy with 

MOPP for Hodgkin™s and non-Hodgkin™s lymphomas. 
MARINOL Capsules dosages ranged from 2.5 
mg/day to 40 mg/day, administered in equally divide
d doses every four to six hours (four times daily). 
As indicated in the following table, escala
ting the MARINOL Capsules dose above 7 mg/m
2 increased 
the frequency of adverse experiences, 
with no additional antiemetic benefit. 
 MARINOL Capsules Dose:  Response Frequency and Adverse Experiences* 
(N = 750 treatment courses) 
Response Frequency (%) Adverse Events Frequency (%) 
MARINOL Capsules 
Dose  
Complete Partial Poor None Nondysphoric Dysphoric 
<7 mg/m
2  36 32 32 23 65 12 
>7 mg/m
2 33 31 36 13 58 28 
 *Nondysphoric events consisted of drowsiness, tachycardia, etc.  
  Combination antiemetic therapy with MARINOL Ca
psules and a phenothiazine
 (prochlorperazine) 
may result in synergistic or additive antiemetic effects and attenuate the toxicities associated with each 

of the agents. 
 INDIVIDUALIZATION OF DOSAGES 
The pharmacologic effects of MARINOL Capsules 
are dose-related and subject to considerable 
interpatient variability. Therefore, dosage individualization is critical in achieving the maximum 

benefit of MARINOL 
Capsules treatment. 
 Appetite Stimulation:  In the clinical trials, the majority of patients were treated with 5 mg/day 
MARINOL Capsules, although the dosages ranged from 2.5 to 20 mg/day. For an adult: 
 NDA 18-651/S-025 and S-026 
Page 7 
 1. Begin with 2.5 mg before lunch and 2.5 mg 
before supper. If CNS symptoms (feeling high, 
dizziness, confusion, somnolence) do occur, they 
usually resolve in 1 to 3 days with continued 
dosage.  
2. If CNS symptoms are severe or
 persistent, reduce the dose to 2.5 mg before supper. If symptoms 
continue to be a problem, taking the single dos
e in the evening or at bedtime may reduce their 
severity. 
 
3. When adverse effects are absent or minimal and further therapeutic effect is desired, increase the 
dose to 2.5 mg before lunch and 5 mg before 
supper or 5 and 5 mg. Although most patients 
respond to 2.5 mg twice daily, 10 mg twice daily has 
been tolerated in about 
half of the patients in appetite stimulation studies. 
 
The pharmacologic effects of MARINOL Capsul
es are reversible upon treatment cessation. 
 Antiemetic:
  Most patients respond to 5 mg 
three or four times daily. Dosage may be escalated 
during a chemotherapy cycle or at subsequent 
cycles, based upon initial results. Therapy should be 
initiated at the lowest recommende
d dosage and titrated to clini
cal response. Administration of 
MARINOL Capsules with phenothiazines, such as prochlorperazine, has resulted in improved efficacy 

as compared to either drug alone, without additional toxicity. 

 Pediatrics:
  MARINOL Capsules is not recommended for AIDS
-related anorexia in pediatric patients 
because it has not been studied in this populati
on. The pediatric dosage for the treatment of 
chemotherapy-induced emesis is the same as in adults. Caution is recommended in prescribing 

MARINOL Capsules for children because of the psychoactive effects. 

 Geriatrics:
  Caution is advised in prescribing MARINOL 
Capsules in elderly patients because they 
may be more sensitive to the neurological, psychoactive and postural hypotensive effects of the drug. 

In general, dose selection for an elderly patient sh
ould be cautious, usually starting at the low end of 
the dosing range (
See PRECAUTIONS.
)   
MARINOL Capsules should be used with caution when
 administered to elderly patients with dementia, 
who are at increased risk for falls as a result 
of their underlying disease state which may be 
exacerbated by the central nervous system effect
s of somnolence and dizziness associated with 
MARINOL Capsules. These patients should be monito
red closely and placed on fall precautions prior 
to initiating MARINOL therapy. In antiemetic studies, no difference in efficacy was apparent in 

patients >55 years old. 
 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 
MARINOL Capsules is indicated for the treatment of:  
1.  anorexia associated with weight loss in patients with AIDS; and  

 
2.  nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chem
otherapy in patients w
ho have failed to respond 
adequately to conventional antiemetic treatments. 
 CONTRAINDICATIONS 
MARINOL Capsules is contraindicated in any patient who has a known sensitivity to MARINOL 
Capsules or any of its ingredients. It contains ca
nnabinoid and sesame oil a
nd should never be used by 
patients allergic to these substances. 
 NDA 18-651/S-025 and S-026 
Page 8 
  
WARNINGS 
Patients receiving treatment with MARINOL Capsules
 should be specifically warned not to drive, 
operate machinery, or engage in any hazardous activ
ity until it is established that they are able to 
tolerate the drug and to perform such tasks safely. 
 PRECAUTIONS 
General:
  The risk/benefit ratio of MARINOL Capsules us
e should be carefully evaluated in patients 
with the following medical conditions because of i
ndividual variation in res
ponse and tolerance to the 
effects of MARINOL Capsules. 

 
 Seizure and seizure-like activity have been reported in patients receiving MARINOL Capsules 
during marketed use of the drug and in clinical trials. (See 
ADVERSE REACTIONS
 and OVERDOSAGE.
) MARINOL Capsules should be used with caution in patients with a history of 
seizure disorder because MARINOL Capsules may lo
wer the seizure threshold. A causal relationship 
between MARINOL Capsules and these events has 
not been established. MARINOL Capsules should 
be discontinued immediately in pa
tients who develop seizures and me
dical attention should be sought 
immediately. 

 
 MARINOL Capsules should be used with cauti
on in patients with cardiac disorders because of 
occasional hypotension, possible hypertension, syncope, or tachycardia. (See 
CLINICAL 
PHARMACOLOGY.
)  
 MARINOL Capsules should be used with caution 
in patients with a history of substance abuse, 
including alcohol abuse or dependence, because
 they may be more prone to abuse MARINOL 
Capsules as well. Multiple substance abuse is common and marijuana, which contains the same active 

compound, is a frequently abused substance. 

 
 MARINOL Capsules should be used with caution 
and careful psychiatric monitoring in patients 
with mania, depression, or schi
zophrenia because MARINOL Capsules may exacerbate these illnesses. 
 
 MARINOL Capsules should be used with caution in patients receiving concomitant therapy with 

sedatives, hypnotics or other psychoactive drugs becau
se of the potential for additive or synergistic 
CNS effects. 

 
 MARINOL Capsules should be used with caution 
in elderly patients because they may be more 
sensitive to the neurological, psychoactive, and 
postural hypotensive effects of the drug.(See 
INDIVIDUALIZATION OF DOSAGES.
)   MARINOL Capsules should be used with cauti
on in pregnant patients, nursing mothers, or 
pediatric patients because it has not been
 studied in these patient populations. 
 Information for Patients:
  Patients receiving treatment with MA
RINOL Capsules should be alerted 
to the potential for additive central nervous syst
em depression if MARINOL Capsules is used 
concomitantly with alcohol or ot
her CNS depressants such as be
nzodiazepines and barbiturates. 
 
 Patients receiving treatment with MARINOL Capsul
es should be specifically warned not to drive, 
operate machinery, or engage in any hazardous activ
ity until it is established that they are able to 
tolerate the drug and to perform such tasks safely. 
 NDA 18-651/S-025 and S-026 
Page 9 
  
 Patients using MARINOL Capsules should be ad
vised of possible changes in mood and other 
adverse behavioral effects of the drug so as to avoi
d panic in the event of su
ch manifestations. Patients 
should remain under the supervision of a responsib
le adult during initial us
e of MARINOL Capsules 
and following dosage adjustments. 

 Drug Interactions:
  In studies involving patients with AIDS
 and/or cancer, MARINOL Capsules has 
been co-administered with a variety of medications (e.g., cytotoxic agents, anti-infective agents, 
sedatives, or opioid analgesics) without resulting in 
any clinically significant drug/drug interactions. 
Although no drug/drug interactions were discovered 
during the clinical trials of MARINOL Capsules, 
cannabinoids may interact with
 other medications through bot
h metabolic and pharmacodynamic 
mechanisms. Dronabinol is highly protein bound to 
plasma proteins, and therefore, might displace 
other protein-bound drugs. Although this 
displacement has not been confirmed 
in vivo
, practitioners 
should monitor patients for a change in dosage requir
ements when administering dronabinol to patients 
receiving other highly protein-bound drugs. Publishe
d reports of drug/drug interactions involving 
cannabinoids are summarized in the following table. 

 CONCOMITANT DRUG
 CLINICAL EFFECT(S)
 Amphetamines, cocaine, other 
sympathomimetic agents  
Additive hypertension, tachycardia, 
possibly cardiotoxicity 
Atropine, scopolamine, antihistamines, 

other anticholinergic agents 
Additive or super-additive tachycardia, 
drowsiness Amitriptyline, amoxapine, desipramine, 

other tricyclic antidepressants 
Additive tachycardia, hypertension, 
drowsiness Barbiturates, benzodiazepines, ethanol, 

lithium, opioids, buspirone, antihistamines, 

muscle relaxants, ot
her CNS depressants Additive drowsiness and CNS depression 
Disulfiram  A reversible hypomanic reaction was 
reported in a 28 y/o man who smoked 

marijuana; confirmed by dechallenge and 

rechallenge 
Fluoxetine  A 21 y/o fema
le with depression and 
bulimia receiving 20 mg/day fluoxetine X 

4 wks became hypomanic after smoking 

marijuana; symptoms resolved after 4 days 
Antipyrine, barbiturates  Decreased clearance of these agents, 
presumably via competitive inhibition of 

metabolism 
Theophylline  Increased theophylline metabolism 
reported with smoking of marijuana; effect 

similar to that following smoking tobacco 
 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis,
 Impairment of Fertility:
  Carcinogenicity studies in mice and 
rats have been conducted under the US Nationa
l Toxicology Program (NTP). In the 2-year 
carcinogenicity study in rats, there was no evidence of carcinogenicity at doses up to 50 mg/kg/day, 

about 20 times the maximum recommended human dose 
on a body surface area basis. In the 2-year 
carcinogenicity study in mice, treatment with 
dronabinol at 125 mg/kg/day, about 25 times the 
 NDA 18-651/S-025 and S-026 
Page 10 
 maximum recommended human dose on a body surface 
area basis, produced thyroid follicular cell 
adenoma in both male and female mi
ce but not at 250 or 500 mg/kg/day. 
 
 Dronabinol was not genotoxic in the Ames tests, the 
in vitro
 chromosomal aberration test in 
Chinese hamster ovary cells, and the 
in vivo
 mouse micronucleus test. It, however, produced a weak 
positive response in a sister chromatid excha
nge test in Chinese hamster ovary cells. 
 
 In a long-term study (77 days) in rats, oral 
administration of dronabinol at doses of 30 to 150 
mg/m
2, equivalent to 0.3 to 1.5 times maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 90 mg/m
2/day 
in cancer patients or 2 to 10 times MRHD of 15 mg/m
2/day in AIDS patients, reduced ventral prostate, 
seminal vesicle and epididymal weights and caused a decrease in seminal fluid volume. Decreases in 

spermatogenesis, number of 
developing germ cells, and number of Le
ydig cells in the testis were also 
observed. However, sperm count, mating success a
nd testosterone levels were not affected. The 
significance of these animal fi
ndings in humans is not known. 
 Pregnancy:
  Pregnancy Category C. Repr
oduction studies with dronabinol have been performed in 
mice at 15 to 450 mg/m
2, equivalent to 0.2 to 5 times maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) 
of 90 mg/m
2/day in cancer patients or 1 to 30 times MRHD of 15 mg/m
2/day in AIDS patients, and in 
rats at 74 to 295 mg/m
2 (equivalent to 0.8 to 3 times MRHD of 90 mg/m
2 in cancer patients or 5 to 20 
times MRHD of 15 mg/m
2/day in AIDS patients). These studi
es have revealed no evidence of 
teratogenicity due to dronabinol. At these dosages
 in mice and rats, dronabinol decreased maternal 
weight gain and number of viable 
pups and increased fetal mortality and early resorptions. Such effects 
were dose dependent and less appare
nt at lower doses which produced 
less maternal toxicity. There are 
no adequate and well-controlled studi
es in pregnant women. Dronabinol should be used only if the 
potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. 

 Nursing Mothers:
  Use of MARINOL Capsules is not reco
mmended in nursing mothers since, in 
addition to the secretion of HIV virus in breast milk
, dronabinol is concentrated in and secreted in 
human breast milk and is absorbed by the nursing baby.  

 Geriatric Use:
  Clinical studies of MARINOL Capsules in 
AIDS and cancer patients did not include 
the sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over
 to determine whether they respond differently 
from younger subjects. Other reported clinical experi
ence has not identified differences in responses 
between the elderly and younger patients. In genera
l, dose selection for an elderly patient should be 
cautious usually starting at the low end of the dosin
g range, reflecting the greater frequency of falls, 
decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, increased sensitivity to psychoactive effects and of 

concomitant disease or other drug therapy. 
 ADVERSE REACTIONS 
Adverse experiences information summarized in th
e tables below was deri
ved from well-controlled 
clinical trials conducted in the 
US and US territories involving
 474 patients exposed to MARINOL 
Capsules. Studies of AIDS-related weight loss incl
uded 157 patients receiving dronabinol at a dose of 
2.5 mg twice daily and 67 receiving placebo. St
udies of different durations were combined by 
considering the first occurrence of events during the first 28 days. Studies of nausea and vomiting 

related to cancer chemotherapy 
included 317 patients receiving dronabinol and 68 receiving placebo. 
 
 A cannabinoid dose-related ﬁhighﬂ (easy laughing, 
elation and heightened awareness) has been 
reported by patients receiving MARINOL Capsules 
in both the antiemetic (24%) and the lower dose 
appetite stimulant clinical trials (8%). (See 
Clinical
 Trials.
)  NDA 18-651/S-025 and S-026 
Page 11 
  
 The most frequently reported adverse experiences 
in patients with AIDS during placebo-controlled 
clinical trials involved the CNS and were reported by 33% of patients receiving MARINOL Capsules. 
About 25% of patients reported a 
minor CNS adverse event during the first 2 weeks and about 4% 
reported such an event each week for the next 6 weeks thereafter. 

 PROBABLY CAUSALLY RELATED:  Incidence greater than 1%. 
Rates derived from clinical trials in AIDS-relate
d anorexia (N=157) and chemotherapy-related nausea 
(N=317). Rates were generally higher in th
e anti-emetic use (given in parentheses). 
Body as a whole:  Asthenia.  
Cardiovascular:  Palpitations, tachycardia, va
sodilation/facial flush.  Digestive:  
Abdominal pain*, nausea*, vomiting*.  
Nervous system:  (Amnesia), anxiety/nervousness, (ataxia), 
confusion, depersonaliz
ation, dizziness*, 
euphoria*, (hallucination), 
paranoid reaction*, somnolen
ce*, thinking abnormal*. 
 *Incidence of events 3% to 10% 
 PROBABLY CAUSALLY RELATED:  Incidence less than 1%. 
Event rates derived from clinical 
trials in AIDS-related anorexia 
(N=157) and chemotherapy-related 
nausea (N=317). 
Cardiovascular:  Conjunctivitis*, hypotension*.  
Digestive:  
Diarrhea
*, fecal incontinence.  
Musculoskeletal:  Myalgias.  
Nervous system:  Depression, nightmares, speech difficulties, tinnitus.  
Skin and Appendages:  Flushing*.  
Special senses:  Vision difficulties.  
 *Incidence of events 0.3% to 1% 
 CAUSAL RELATIONSHIP UNKNOWN: Incidence less than 1%. 
The clinical significance of the association of these events with MARINOL Capsules treatment is 
unknown, but they are reported as aler
ting information for the clinician. 
Body as a whole:  Chills, headache, malaise.  
Digestive:  
Anorexia, hepatic enzyme elevation.  
Respiratory:  Cough, rhinitis, sinusitis.  
Skin and Appendages:  Sweating.  
 Postmarketing Experience 
Seizure and seizure-like activity have been report
ed in patients receiving MARINOL Capsules during 
marketed use of the drug and in clinical trials. (See 
PRECAUTIONS
 and OVERDOSAGE.
) Reports 
of fatigue have also been received.
 A causal relationship between MARINOL Capsules and these 
events has not been established. 
 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 
MARINOL Capsules is one of the psychoactive com
pounds present in cannabis, and is abusable and 
controlled [Schedule III (CIII)] under the Contro
lled Substances Act. Both psychological and 
physiological dependence have been noted in health
y individuals receiving dr
onabinol, but addiction is uncommon and has only been seen after 
prolonged high dose administration. 
 NDA 18-651/S-025 and S-026 
Page 12 
  
 Chronic abuse of cannabis has been associated
 with decrements in motivation, cognition, 
judgement, and perception. The etiology of these 
impairments is unknown, but 
may be associated with 
the complex process of addiction rather than an isolated effect of the drug. No such decrements in 

psychological, social or neurological status ha
ve been associated with the administration of 
MARINOL Capsules for therapeutic purposes. 

 
 In an open-label study in patients with AIDS who received MARINOL Capsules for up to five 
months, no abuse, diversion or systematic change 
in personality or social functioning were observed 
despite the inclusion of a substa
ntial number of patients with a 
past history of drug abuse. 
 
 An abstinence syndrome has been reported afte
r the abrupt discontinuation of dronabinol in 
volunteers receiving dosages of 210 mg/day for 12 to 16 consecutive days. Within 12 hours after 

discontinuation, these volunteers manifested symptoms such as irritability, insomnia, and restlessness. 

By approximately 24 hours post-dronabinol disconti
nuation, withdrawal symptoms intensified to 
include ﬁhot flashesﬂ, sweating, rhinorrh
ea, loose stools, hiccoughs and anorexia. 
 
 These withdrawal symptoms gradually dissipate
d over the next 48 hours. Electroencephalographic 
changes consistent with the effects of drug withdrawal (hyperexcitation) were recorded in patients after 

abrupt dechallenge. Patients also complained of di
sturbed sleep for several weeks after discontinuing 
therapy with high dosages of dronabinol. 
 OVERDOSAGE 
Signs and symptoms following MILD MARINOL Caps
ules intoxication include drowsiness, euphoria, 
heightened sensory awareness, altered time pe
rception, reddened conjun
ctiva, dry mouth and 
tachycardia; following MODERATE intoxication in
clude memory impairment
, depersonalization, 
mood alteration, urinary retenti
on, and reduced bowel motility; and following SEVERE intoxication 
include decreased motor coordination, lethar
gy, slurred speech, and postural hypotension. 
Apprehensive patients may experience panic reactions and seizures may occur in patients with existing 

seizure disorders. 

 
 The estimated lethal human dose of intravenous dronabinol is 30 mg/kg (2100 mg/ 70 kg). 
Significant CNS symptoms in antiemetic studies fo
llowed oral doses of 0.4 mg/kg (28 mg/70 kg) of 
MARINOL Capsules. 

 Management:  A potentially serious oral ingestion, if
 recent, should be managed with gut 
decontamination. In unconscious pa
tients with a secure airway, instill activated charcoal (30 to 100 g 
in adults, 1 to 2 g/kg in infants) via a nasogastri
c tube. A saline cathartic or sorbitol may be added to 
the first dose of activated charcoal. Patients experiencing depressive, hallucinatory or psychotic 

reactions should be placed in a quiet area and of
fered reassurance. Benzodiazepines (5 to 10 mg 
diazepam 
po) may be used for treatment of extreme 
agitation. Hypotension usually responds to 
Trendelenburg position and IV fluids
. Pressors are rarely required. 
 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 
Appetite Stimulation:
  Initially, 2.5 mg MARINOL Capsules should be administered orally twice 
daily (b.i.d.), before lunch and supper. For patie
nts unable to tolerate this 5 mg/day dosage of 
MARINOL Capsules, the dosage can be reduced to 2.
5 mg/day, administered as a single dose in the 
evening or at bedtime. If clinically indicated and in the absence of significant adverse effects, the 

dosage may be gradually increased to a maximum of 20 mg/day MARINOL Capsules, administered in 
 NDA 18-651/S-025 and S-026 
Page 13 
 divided oral doses. Caution should be exercised 
in escalating the dosage of MARINOL Capsules 
because of the increased frequency of dose-relate
d adverse experiences at higher dosages. (See 
PRECAUTIONS.
)  Antiemetic:
  MARINOL Capsules is best administered at an initial dose of 5 mg/m
2, given 1 to 3 
hours prior to the administration of chemotherapy, then
 every 2 to 4 hours after chemotherapy is given, 
for a total of 4 to 6 doses/day. Should the 5 mg/m
2 dose prove to be ineffective, and in the absence of 
significant side effects, the dose may be escalated by 2.5 mg/m
2 increments to a maximum of 15 
mg/m
2 per dose. Caution should be exercised in dos
e escalation, however, as the incidence of 
disturbing psychiatric symptoms increases significantly at maximum dose. (See 
PRECAUTIONS.
)  Storage Conditions 

MARINOL Capsules should be packaged in a we
ll-closed container and stored in a cool 
environment between 8° and 15°C (46° and 59°F)
 and alternatively could be stored in a 
refrigerator. Protect from freezing. 

 
HOW SUPPLIED 

MARINOL Capsules (dronabinol solution in sesame oil in soft gelatin capsules)  
 2.5 mg white capsules (Identified UM).  
NDC 0051-0021-21 (Bottle of 60 capsules).  
 5 mg dark brown capsules (Identified UM).  
NDC 0051-0022-21 (Bottle of 60 capsules). 
 10 mg orange capsules (Identified UM).  
NDC 0051-0023-21 (Bottle of 60 capsules).  
 
MARINOL is a registered trademark of Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and is 

Manufactured by Banner Pharmacaps, Inc.  

High Point, NC  27265 

 
For: 

Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

A Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Company 

Marietta, GA 30062-2224, USA 

 
500012 Rev Jul 2006 

 
© 2006 Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
  