Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 Claim:   A photograph depicts a tramp steamer carrying Muslim refugees from Libya to Italy.
 FALSE Example:     [Collected via e-mail and Imgur, September 2015] What the mainstream, leftist media do not show us.
 A tramp steamer leaving for Italy from Libya.
 And everyone on board gets accepted by the kind, loving, Politically Correct Europeans — who will soon find themselves overrun by people who mostly cannot speak the languages of host nations and have limited skills in areas needed by technologically advanced countries and thus can hardly contribute to the economies of their benefactors.
 Worse, a floodtide of the Muslim way of life is hereby being imported — by people who refuse to integrate into new societies they infiltrate but instead soon start demanding that their way of life, their beliefs and their laws prevail.
 The next step is a Muslim Europe.
 Origins:    Global news coverage of the 2 September 2015 death of Syrian toddler Alan Kurdi prompted worldwide concern over the then-current Syrian refugee crisis, and in the wake of that event the message and images excerpted above began circulating.
 While refugees who arrived in Europe shortly after Kurdi’s death were openly welcomed by waiting crowds, expressions of sympathy for the plight of those making the trip caused some discomfort and debate in Europe.
 It’s likely the above-quoted e-mail resulted from that dissonance, serving as a warning for those who might think the temporary relaxation of border policies was without its drawbacks.
 However, the photographs employed to convey that warning were incorrectly described.
 It was immediately apparent that they were not from mid-2015, as evidenced by their appearence in a 2014 Imgur post as well as a 12 August 2012 news article.
 Before they were appropriated in 2015 to accompany a warning about Syrian refugees, the photographs were published as documenting an influx of people migrating from Albania to Italy in 1991: With crowds numbering in the thousands in Vlora and Durres, harbor security forces apparently gave up trying to exercise control, allowing people to swarm aboard vessels and commandeer them for transport to Italy.
 Earlier today the vessel Ibridim radioed in midpassage, saying it was crammed with refugees and required assistance.
 Later, the freighters Tirana and Lirija approached Brindisi purportedly carrying a total of 6,000 Albanians, only to be told by Italian harbor officials to lie offshore until reception centers could be prepared.
 A 2011 post on the blog Migrants at Sea explained the events depicted in the images: 20th Anniversary of the Arrival at Bari, Italy of 15,000 Albanian Boat People Twenty years ago, on 8 August 1991, several ships carrying approximately 15,000 Albanian migrants succeeded in entering the port of Bari, Italy.
 The Italian government’s response was harsh.
 Most of the Albanians were detained in a sports stadium without adequate food, water, or access to bathrooms.
 Italian authorities dropped supplies to the detained migrants by helicopter.
 Within several weeks most of the migrants were deported to Albania.
 Their harsh treatment was criticised by human rights organisations and the Pope, but was justified by the Italian government as necessary to deter further irregular migration from Albania.
 The Vlora incident involved refugees from Albania (not Libya) traveling to Italy, it was prompted by an economic crisis triggered by the collapse of communism (not civil war or religious strife), it did not encompass solely Muslims (Albania is only about 58% Muslim), and it occurred nearly a quarter of a century ago (not within the last year).
 And the means by which Syrian refugeees have been making their way to Europe, typically crammed into dangerously overloaded small boats, looks far more like this than the images referenced above:  As for the claim that such emigrants “have limited skills in areas needed by technologically advanced countries and thus can hardly contribute to the economies of their benefactors,” the Albanian diaspora that began in the early 1990s saw about 45% of that nation’s academics leaving the country to take up residence elsewhere, many of whom have since returned to Albania.
 Last updated:      14 September 2015 Originally published:    11 September 2015       Snopes.com   Since 1994     Help Supercharge Snopes For 2020  				We have big plans.
 We need your help.
 Become a member!
 By   Kim LaCapria     Filed Under   2015 refugees   italy   libya               				smg.ads.load( 'post-footer-1' ); 			    Editors' Picks         Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 Did DHS Secretly Watermark Ballots in an Election Fraud Sting Against Dems?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Discussing election mechanics is easier when you actually know how elections work.
 Can State Legislatures Override the Choice of Presidential Electors?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   The electoral college is a unique system for indirectly electing the president of the United States.
 Has Starbucks Sold a ‘Christmas Blend’ Since 1984?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Since at least 2015, the popular coffee chain has faced accusations of being "anti-Christmas."
 Snopes Fact-Checks the 2020 US Election, Live    															5 November 2020													  							Collections						   Lies don't wait — and neither does Snopes.
 Did a Fox 2 Detroit Report Expose Voter Fraud in the 2020 Election?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   An image graphic detailing an assortment of potential election crimes was shared on social media the day after the 2020 presidential election.
 Was the 2020 U.S. Presidential Election Winner Announced Yet?
 7 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   For days, the world waited to see who American voters want to serve as the 46th president of the United States — Donald Trump or Joe Biden.
 Were Trump Ballots Marked with Sharpies Disqualified in Arizona?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Arizona was one of several states apparently won by Joe Biden in 2020 that were targeted by election-related conspiracy theories.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			     Snopes.com needs your help.Become a member today.
 Learn How          				smg.ads.load( 'side-3' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 See the whole collection.
 Support Us       					You rely on Snopes, and we rely on you.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
