), Patrick
 Leahy (D-Vt.), Jeanne Shaheen (N.H.), Mark Udall (N.M.), Tom Udall (N.M.), and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.)
 sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) today highlighting their
 concerns regarding plans to expand Medicare to Americans between the ages of
 55-64 without addressing inequities in current Medicare reimbursement
 rates.
 Such an expansion could exacerbate existing provider shortages in
 states that have low reimbursement rates.
 Under the current Medicare system, states with more efficient
 health care systems are punished with reimbursement rates that lag
 significantly behind the rates of other states.
 Because states with low
 reimbursement rates already face a shortage of providers willing to accept
 patients on Medicare, an expansion of the program would simply see the same
 issue expanded to Americans between the ages of 55-64.
 “We
 are concerned that a possible final health care compromise may include a
 Medicare buy-in program for Americans aged 55-64 without addressing inequities
 in the current Medicare reimbursement rates,” the senators wrote.
 “We
 appreciate the rationale underlying the proposed Medicare expansion, but fear
 that provider shortages in states with low reimbursement rates such as ours
 will make such a program ineffective, or even worsen the problems these states
 are experiencing.”   To remedy the situation, the senators urged Majority Leader
 Reid to hold on any expansion unless steps are taken to provide incentives for
 providers to see more Medicare patients.
 The full text of the senators’ letter to Majority Leader Reid
 appears below.
 ###  December 11, 2009 The Honorable Harry Reid Majority Leader of the Senate S-221 Capitol Building Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Majority Leader Reid: Thank you for all of the hard
 work you and your entire leadership team are doing to advance historic health
 care reform legislation.
 We appreciate the difficult task you are faced with
 and stand ready to assist you in facilitating this process.
 We are concerned
 however that a possible final health care compromise may include a Medicare
 buy-in program for Americans aged 55-64 without addressing inequities in the
 current Medicare reimbursement rates.
 We appreciate the rationale underlying
 the proposed Medicare expansion, but fear that provider shortages in states
 with low reimbursement rates such as ours will make such a program ineffective,
 or even worsen the problems these states are experiencing.
 Our states consistently lag
 behind other states on Medicare reimbursement and per capita spending.
 While
 there are provisions in the Senate bill to eventually adjust the geographic
 disparities in Medicare, possible improvements to the funding formula, if they
 occur, will be years away.
 We strongly believe that a fundamental way to
 achieve the goal of more efficiency in Medicare is to realign the Medicare
 payment system to reward health care providers for the quality of care
 they deliver, not simply the quantity of services they provide.
 We represent states and regions
 that have demonstrated true leadership in lowering costs to Medicare while
 increasing the quality of care patients receive.
 The “high efficiency” areas we
 represent are known for utilizing integrated health delivery systems and
 innovative quality measures to provide Medicare beneficiaries with better
 value.
 Research shows that these efficient delivery practices can save the
 Medicare program upwards of $100 billion a year, while also providing beneficiaries
 better access to the care they need.
 Unfortunately, the current Medicare
 payment structure penalizes those who provide efficient care, while rewarding
 those who order unnecessary tests and services.
 Creating a Medicare buy-in
 program will exacerbate the existing funding inequity.
 Medicare is spending
 over one-third more for each Medicare beneficiary in some states compared to
 ours.
 The combination of an antiquated payment formula that tends to penalize
 rural providers and greater medical efficiency in our states has forced many
 physicians to stop accepting Medicare patients or limit the number of Medicare
 patients they serve.
 Increasing the number of Medicare patients under a buy-in
 proposal without fixing the Medicare reimbursement rate will further exacerbate
 this access problem.
 To make a Medicare buy-in program successful, it is
 critical that we find ways to incentivize providers to see more Medicare
 patients.
 We thank you for your continued
 vigilance in working to move the process forward.
 We look forward to working
 with you towards resolution of this particular problem and passage of historic
 health care reform legislation.
 ]+)/.exec( ua ) || 					/(webkit)[ \/]([\w.
 ]+)/.exec( ua ) || 					/(opera)(?:.
 *version|)[ \/]([\w.
 ]+)/.exec( ua ) || 					/(msie) ([\w.
