Toggle navigation        Corporations Cultural Affairs Elections Historical Resources Library and Information Services                  The Division of Elections facilitates coordination and interpretation of election laws and establishes uniform standards to ensure fair and accurate elections in Florida.
 About Us   Candidates &amp; Committees      Campaign Finance   Candidates, Campaign Documents, and Committees   Offices Up for Election and Retention in 2020   Political Parties   Qualifying Information   Presidential Electors        Data &amp; Statistics      Elections Data   Voter Registration Statistics        For Voters      Election Dates   Quick Facts - Presidential Preference Primary   Special Elections   Voter Information Lookup   Voter Precinct Lookup   Ballot Information and Status Lookup     Voter Registration   Voting        Forms &amp; Publications      Forms   Publications        Laws &amp; Rules      Advisory Opinions   Constitutional Amendments   Directives   Help America Vote Act (HAVA)   Law Resources   Rules        Voting Systems      About Voting Systems   Approvals and Technical Advisories   Certified Voting Systems and Vendors   Certification Status and Test Schedule        Contacts      Contact the Division of Elections   Contact Your County Supervisor of Elections   Contact Your Elected Officials   Elections Fraud Complaint   Frequently Asked Questions   Government Links   Media Room               Para español, seleccione de la lista         NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC: We prioritize the health and safety of the public and our employees.
 After careful consideration, the Division of Elections' office will be closed to the public until further notice.
 However, we remain open for business online, by mail, email, and phone (including the Voter Assistance Hotline) at this time.
 Thank you.
 RegisterToVoteFlorida.gov       
 Resources       Candidates, Campaigns, &amp; Committees Constitutional Amendments Third-Party Voter Registration Organizations (3PVRO) Hearings, Public Meetings, and Workshops       
 Helpful Links       Election Dates for 2020 Frequently Asked Questions Amendment 4: Standards Governing Eligibility to Vote After a Felony Conviction Contact your Supervisor of Elections       
 News/Events       Voter Precinct Lookup Ballot Information and Status Lookup Early Voting and Vote-By-Mail Daily Statistics State Employees - Incentives to Serve as Poll Workers (EO 2020-149)         Highlights    Voter Information Visit RegistertoVoteFlorida.gov to submit online a new registration or an update to your existing record.
 In Florida, the deadline to submit an online application to register to vote is now 7:00 p.m. (EST) on October 6th for the upcoming General Election.
 The deadline to submit a registration to vote in person is 7:00 p.m. in your local time zone.
 See Directive 2020-02.
 Signature Update: The signature on file at the time you vote is the signature used to verify your signature on a vote-by-mail ballot or provisional ballot certificate.
 If you need to update your signature, do so before you vote.
 Use the Voter Information Lookup to check your voter registration and party status.
 To link to your county’s precinct finder, visit our webpage Voter Precinct Lookup.
 For the most current information on polling places, early voting sites, and vote-by-mail ballot status, visit your county Supervisor of Elections' website.
 Voting Voting options: Florida voters can vote one of three convenient ways: vote-by-mail upon request, vote during early voting, or voting on Election Day.
 See more information about voting by mail.
 Deadline to return ballot: The voted vote-by-mail ballot for stateside voters must be received, regardless of postmark date, no later than 7:00 p.m. (local time) on the day of the General Election, November 3, 2020.
 Recommended ballot return time: The United States Postal Service recommends that domestic nonmilitary voters mail back their voted ballots at least one (1) week before the Election Day deadline to account for any unforeseen events or weather issues.
 The Federal Voting Assistance Program provides specific recommended return timelines (see timetables at the bottom of their website) for absent military and overseas voters.
 Other options, if time does not allow for timely return by mail, include in person delivery, secure drop boxes (see below for more information) , or expedited or special courier services.
 Drop boxes: Voted vote-by-mail ballots may be returned to secure drop boxes at Supervisor of Elections' main and branch offices and early voting sites.
 Visit your county Supervisor of Elections' website for the location and times of secure drop boxes for timely return.
 Election Results   Official results for the General Election to be held on November 3, 2020 will be available and certified on November 17, 2020.
 For key election activity dates leading up to Election Day, visit General Election 2020 Important Dates.
 For election results reporting dates including recount, if applicable, and certification, visit General Election 2020 Certification Timeline.
 Contact    Division of Elections Mailing AddressFlorida Division of Elections R.A. Gray Building, Room 316 500 South Bronough Street Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0250 Phone: 850.245.6200 Fax: 850.245.6217 Email: [email protected]     For the Press For answers to media-related questions visit the Media Room for a list of resources you may find useful.
 If you still have questions, please contact the Department of State’s Office of Communications.
 Voter Assistance Hotline Toll Free 1.866.308.6739  (in English and Español), available Monday - Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m., with extended hours during statewide elections.
 If you are hearing or speech impaired, please contact the Division using the Florida Relay Service, 1.800.955.8771 (TDD), 1.800.955.8770 (Voice), or 1.877.955.8773 (Español).
 For more information visit the Florida Relay Service.
 Ron DeSantis, Governor      Laurel M. Lee, Secretary of State       Privacy Policy Accessibility Site Map  Questions or comments?
 Contact Us   Submit a public records request.
 Under Florida law, e-mail addresses are public records.
 If you do not want your e-mail address released in response to a public records request, do not send electronic mail to this entity.
 Instead, contact this office by phone or in writing.
 Copyright © 2020 State of Florida, Florida Department of State.
