Skip to main content Skip to FDA Search Skip to in this section menu Skip to footer links          An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know       The .gov means it’s official.Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil.
 Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site.
 The site is secure.
 The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
 U.S. Food and Drug Administration        Search     Menu       Search FDA   Submit search          Featured  Contact FDA FDA Guidance Documents Recalls, Market Withdrawals and Safety Alerts Press Announcements Warning Letters Advisory Committees En Español      Products  Food Drugs Medical Devices Radiation-Emitting Products Vaccines, Blood, and Biologics Animal and Veterinary Cosmetics Tobacco Products    Topics  About FDA Combination Products Regulatory Information Safety Emergency Preparedness International Programs News and Events Training and Continuing Education Inspections and Compliance Science and Research    Information For  Consumers Patients Industry Health Professionals Federal, State and Local Officials          In this section:      Consumer Updates                    Consumer Updates          Animal &amp; Veterinary Children's Health Cosmetics Dietary Supplements Drugs Food Medical Devices Nutrition Radiation-Emitting Products Tobacco Products Vaccines, Blood &amp; Biologics         Artículos en español             Home   For Consumers   Consumer Updates   Safely Using Hand Sanitizer        Consumer Updates           Safely Using Hand Sanitizer  Subscribe to Email Updates   Share   Tweet   Linkedin   Email   Print             Image                   Español  简体中文   Tagalog   한국어   Việt      Some hand sanitizers have potentially toxic types of alcohol.
 Check FDA’s do-not-use list at www.fda.gov/handsanitizerlist to learn more.
 Need help now?
 Call 911 if the person is unconscious or has trouble breathing.
 Call Poison Help at 1-800-222-1222 to connect to your local poison center.
 Each of us can help stop the spread of COVID-19 disease by washing our hands regularly with soap and water for 20 seconds – especially after going to the bathroom, before eating, and after coughing, sneezing, or blowing your nose.
 If soap and water are not available, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend that consumers use alcohol-based hand sanitizers containing at least 60% alcohol.
 The alcohol in hand sanitizer works best when you rub hand sanitizer all over your hands, making sure to get between your fingers and on the back of your hands.
 Do not wipe or rinse off the hand sanitizer before it is dry.
 Do not use hand sanitizer if your hands are visibly dirty or greasy; wash your hands with soap and water instead.
 If you use alcohol-based hand sanitizers, please pay attention to the information below.
 Hand Sanitizers Are Drugs Hand sanitizers are regulated as over-the-counter (non-prescription) drugs by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
 If you use alcohol-based hand sanitizers, read and follow the Drug Facts label, particularly the warnings section.
 Store hand sanitizer out of the reach of pets and children, and children should use it only with adult supervision.
 Do not drink hand sanitizer.
 This is particularly important for young children, especially toddlers, who may be attracted by the pleasant smell or brightly colored bottles of hand sanitizer.
 Drinking even a small amount of hand sanitizer can cause alcohol poisoning in children.
 (However, there is no need to be concerned if your children eat with or lick their hands after using hand sanitizer.)
 During this coronavirus pandemic, poison control centers have had an increase in calls about accidental ingestion of hand sanitizer, so it is important that adults monitor young children’s use.
 Do not allow pets to swallow hand sanitizer.
 If you think your pet has eaten something potentially dangerous, call your veterinarian or a pet poison control center right away.
 Hand sanitizer is flammable and should be stored away from heat and flames.
 When using hand sanitizer, rub your hands until they feel completely dry before performing activities that may involve heat, sparks, static electricity, or open flames.
 Don’t Make Your Own Hand Sanitizer Although many stores and pharmacies sell it, hand sanitizer might be hard to find during this public health emergency.
 Still, the FDA doesn’t recommend that consumers make their own hand sanitizer.
 If made incorrectly, hand sanitizer can be ineffective – or worse.
 For example, there have been reports of skin burns from homemade hand sanitizer.
 Also, adding alcohol to non-alcohol hand sanitizer is unlikely to result in an effective product.
 And using disinfectant sprays or wipes on your skin may cause skin and eye irritation.
 Disinfectant sprays and wipes are intended to clean surfaces, not people or animals.
 The FDA is helping increase the availability of hand sanitizers by working with companies and pharmacies to address this supply shortage.
 The FDA recently developed guidance documents for the temporary preparation of hand sanitizers by certain pharmacists and other companies during the COVID-19 public health emergency.
 Hand sanitizers are a convenient alternative when handwashing with soap and water isn’t possible.
 You can protect yourself and your family from coronavirus with simple hygiene.
 For more information, visit: Q&amp;A for Consumers: Hand Sanitizers and COVID-19.
 Call your doctor if you experience a serious reaction to hand sanitizer.
 Health care professionals and patients are encouraged to report adverse events or side effects related to the use of these products to the FDA's MedWatch Safety Information and Adverse Event Reporting program: Complete and submit the report online.
 Download the form or call 1-800-332-1088 to request a reporting form, then complete and return to the address on the form, or submit by fax to 1-800-FDA-0178.
 For more information on the coronavirus visit: FDA: Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) CDC: Coronavirus (COVID-19)            Content current as of: 09/11/2020       Regulated Product(s)  Animal &amp; Veterinary Drugs  Health Topic(s)  Infectious Disease Coronavirus                          Consumer Updates           Animal &amp; Veterinary Children's Health Cosmetics Dietary Supplements Drugs Food Medical Devices Nutrition Radiation-Emitting Products Tobacco Products Vaccines, Blood &amp; Biologics         Artículos en español                     Consumer Updates Email Subscribe to receive Consumer Updates email notifications.
