Fall 1999 Newsletter
   
                            
   Home
       
   More
   Newsletters
       
   Director's
   Letter
      
   Bordetella Bronchiseptica in Cats    
   Canine Babesiosis     
   Dictyocaulosis in Dairy Cattle     
   Echephalo- myacarditis in Pigs     
   Gastric Dilation Volvulus in Dogs    Practitioner Sabbatical    Neospora Canium    New Tests    Staff News    
   Printable Version      
   Search   Enter Keywords:                 Gastric Dilatation-Volvulus in Dogs Acute gastric dilatation-volvulus (GDV) is a life-threatening 
      condition, with fatality rates ranging from 10% to 60%.1  
      The animals most commonly affected by GDV include older, large 
      or giant breed, deep-chested dogs, including Great Danes, 
      German Shepherds, Standard Poodles, and large mixed breed 
      dogs.
 Early diagnosis, medical stabilization, surgical intervention 
      and post-operative monitoring are important factors in reducing 
      the mortality rate.
 Gastric dilatation-volvulus is the result of accumulation 
      of gas, fluid, or a combination of the two in the stomach.
 Factors responsible for causing dilatation include aerophagia, 
      exercise after ingesting a meal, and overeating.
 The stomach 
      distends with gas or fluid, and rotation along the axis of 
      the esophagus and cardia follows.
 The rotation is generally 
      in the clockwise direction (when viewed in dorsal recumbency), 
      and can be up to a maximum  of 360°.
 A less common fate is a counter-clockwise rotation, 
      to a maximum of 90°.
 In addition to the accumulation of gas 
      and/or fluid, there is often an outflow obstruction due to 
      a mechanical or functional abnormality.2 The clinical signs associated with GDV are restlessness, 
      anxiousness, respiratory dysfunction, hypersalivation, retching, 
      abdominal distension and frequent attempts to vomit.
 The 
      animal may present weak, collapsed, or comatose, depending 
      on the degree of shock.
 Signs related to hypovolemic shock 
      are pale mucous membranes, prolonged capillary refill time, 
      rapid, weak, thready pulses, and tachypnea.
 Diagnosis of 
      GDV is based upon clinical signs, inability to pass a gastric 
      or nasogastric tube effectively, and consistent radiographic 
      findings.
 The major life threatening abnormality associated with GDV 
      is shock.
 Shock is due to compression of the caudal vena 
      cava, from distension of the stomach, and the portal vein, 
      from distension and rotation of the stomach.
 As a result, 
      there is decreased tissue perfusion, which leads to hypoxia 
      and ischemia of tissues.
 Ischemia of cardiac muscles can 
      result in arrhythmias, and ischemia of abdominal organs can 
      lead to necrosis/death of affected organs/tissues.
 The first priority for treatment of GDV is cardiovascular 
      stabilization.
 Dogs that have persistent circulatory collapse 
      are thought to be at greater risk of dying than those dogs 
      that are stabilized.1  Hosgood, et al, suggests 
      that intravenous therapy with 7% sodium chloride plus 6% dextran 
      initially, followed by 9% sodium chloride, is superior to 
      9% sodium chloride alone.
 Once the animal is stabilized the 
      stomach is decompressed using orogastricintubation or needle 
      gastrocentesis.
 Radiographs are taken prior to surgery to 
      determine if a volvulus is present.
 Broad spectrum antibiotics 
      are administered prophylactically.
 The use of corticosteroids 
      remains controversial, but have shown to be beneficial in 
      instances of septic or endotoxic shock.
 The timing of surgery also remains controversial, as there 
      are advantages and disadvantages to early and late surgical 
      intervention.
 The surgical techniques used for repair of 
      GDV include tube gastrostomy, circumcostalgastropexy, belt-loop 
      gastropexy, and permanent incisionalgastropexy.
 Complications 
      associated with tube gastrostomy are peritonitis (due to premature 
      removal or loosening of the tube), cellulitis (due to gastric 
      content leakage), and alteration of gastric myoelectric activity.
 There is some evidence suggesting gastropexy procedures lead 
      to chronic bloaters by altering gastric emptying.3 Perfusion of the tissues is maintained perioperatively and 
      post-operatively, using an intravenously administered, balanced 
      electrolyte solution.
 Perioperative and post-operative monitoring 
      of the patient for perfusion, as well as abdominal distension, 
      are important.
 The parameters used to assess tissue perfusion 
      include capillary refill time, blood pressure, peripheral 
      pulse pressures, arterial blood gas, urine output, PCV, and 
      total protein.
 Abdominal distension is monitored due to the 
      potential of re-bloating following surgery.
 There are many complications that can occur postoperatively, 
      most of which are secondary to the initial problems associated 
      with GDV.
 Cardiac arrhythmias, usually of ventricular origin, 
      tend to occur in the first 12-36 hours following surgery.
 A continuous ECG is recommended to monitor for arrhythmias, 
      and anti-arrhythmic drugs (lidocaine, procainamide) are used 
      when the arrhythmia is responsible for poor tissue perfusion.
 Additional complications include disseminated intravascular 
      coagulation, sepsis caused by gastric leak or aspiration pneumonia, 
      protein loss, gastric ischemia and esophagitis.
 Additional medical options available for the treatment of 
      GDV include: a lipid peroxidase inhibitor to prevent lipid 
      peroxidation secondary to reperfusion injury; cisapride, metoclopramide, 
      erythromycin, and ranitidine to facilitate gastric emptying; 
      and vasoactive intestinal peptide to facilitate eructation 
      and lower esophageal sphincter tone in animals which are chronic 
      bloaters.
 The effect of metoclopramide on gastric emptying 
      in dogs with GDV has been studied, and the results suggest 
      there is no improvement of gastric emptying.4  Left untreated, GDV can lead to multiple organ failure, circulatory 
      shock and death.4 Factors which contribute to a 
      higher mortality rate include gastric necrosis, gastric resection, 
      splenectomy and pre-operative cardiac arrhythmias.5  
      It is therefore important to be familiar with the clinical 
      signs of GDV in order to arrive at an early diagnosis, stabilize 
      the patient as soon as possible, surgically correct the volvulus, 
      and medically manage any additional complications.
 -by Elizabeth Natz, Class of 1999 -Edited by Brad L. Njaa, DVM, MVSc   Post Publication Correction The section discussing fluid therapy for gastric dilatation-volvulus in dogs should have read “… intravenous therapy with 7% NaCl (5ml/kg) in 6% Dextran 70 (HS/D70) initially followed by 0.9% NaCl is superior to 0.9% NaCl alone.” Resource is Section 7/Gastrointestinal Disorders, Chapter 4/Disease of the Stomach, pp.
 675 of Saunders Manual of Small Animal Practice, edited by Stephen J. Birchard and Robert G. Sherding, W.B.
