Generic Viagra   								Sildenafil products expert 							                       Home Blog Contact Us          About Us   Who we are?
 VeriChip Corporation, headquartered in Delray Beach, Florida, operates two distinct lines of business.
 Its VeriMed Health Link is the world’s first and only FDA-cleared, human-implantable RFID microchip for patient identification.
 Its VeriGreen Energy Corporation subsidiary was formed to invest in the clean and alternative energy sector.
 VeriChip History The roots of VeriChip trace back to the events of September 11, 2001, when New York firemen were writing their badge ID numbers on their chests in case they were found injured or unconscious.
 It was evident there was a serious need for personal information in emergency situations.
 Working closely with Applied Digital Solutions, now Digital Angel Corporation, VeriChip was created as a wholly-owned subsidiary in December 2001 to produce and market an implantable microchip to identify patients in an emergency situation.
 The company received FDA clearance for the microchip in October 2004 and today, many people around the world have been implanted.
 In addition, several leading medical centers including Beth Israel Deaconess and Hackensack University, have agreed to use the technology in their emergency departments with other facilities currently in talks with VeriChip.
 In March 2009, the Company’s new subsidiary, VeriGreen Energy Corporation, was formed to invest in the clean and alternative energy sector to complement its healthcare initiatives.
 VeriChip Corporation completed its initial public offering in February 2007 and trades on the NASDAQ under the symbol “CHIP.”                Site Disclaimer: The information contained on this page is intended for educational purposes only.
 Since there are materials related to healthcare and healthcare products, it is logical for it to contain names of companies and products; those are used for reference and general awareness and are owned by their respective copyright owners.
 Our website is not associated with any of the entities or brand names mentioned on this page.
 None of the information contained here is intended as direct instructions to be followed by patients; prescription medications are subject to appointment by a board-certified healthcare practitioner.
 Failure to follow your doctor’s recommendations may result in irreversible damage to your health.
 User discretion is required.
 Copyright © 2005-2020.
 Verichip Corp. All Rights Reserved.
