Drug &amp; Alcohol Addiction						    									What is Addiction?
 Withdrawal Symptoms								    									Facts About Quitting								    									Cravings &amp; Relapse								    									Overdose Signs								    									Drug &amp; Alcohol Facts								      							Recovery						    									Alcoholism Recovery								    									Drug Abuse Recovery								    									12 Step Programs								    									Non-12 Step Programs								    									Alcoholics Anonymous								    									Narcotics Anonymous								    									Life After Rehab								      							Treatment Information						    									Cost of Rehab								    									Types of Programs								    									Choosing a Program								    									What Happens in Rehab?
 Rehab &amp; Recovery Myths								      						Helplines					    						About AAC					               						More					         				Stages of Recovery			    				Pro Corner			    				Forums			    				Blog			    				Drug &amp; Alcohol Addiction			    						What is Addiction?
 Withdrawal Symptoms					    						Facts About Quitting					    						Cravings &amp; Relapse					    						Overdose Signs					    						Drug &amp; Alcohol Facts					      				Recovery			    						Alcoholism Recovery					    						Drug Abuse Recovery					    						12 Step Programs					    						Non-12 Step Programs					    						Alcoholics Anonymous					    						Narcotics Anonymous					    						Life After Rehab					      				Treatment Information			    						Cost of Rehab					    						Types of Programs					    						Choosing a Program					    						What Happens in Rehab?
 If you need help in your search, we have the expertise to guide you.
 You only have to call 1-888-319-2606  	Who Answers?
 , to find a recovery program that will work for you.
 The 12-step model was first developed by Alcoholics Anonymous, but that model is now used by several different groups, including Cocaine Anonymous, Crystal Meth Anonymous&gt;, Heroin Anonymous, Marijuana Anonymous,  What are the 12 Steps of Recovery?
 However, the original 12 steps as developed by Alcoholics Anonymous are quoted in full below:  We admitted we were powerless over alcohol — that our lives had become unmanageable.
 Came to believe that a power greater than ourselves could restore us to sanity.
 Made a decision to turn our will and our lives over to the care of God as we understood Him.
 Made a searching and fearless moral inventory of ourselves.
 Admitted to God, to ourselves and to another human being the exact nature of our wrongs.
 Were entirely ready to have God remove all these defects of character.
 Humbly asked Him to remove our shortcomings.
 Made a list of all persons we had harmed and became willing to make amends to them all.
 Made direct amends to such people wherever possible, except when to do so would injure them or others.
 Continued to take personal inventory, and when we were wrong, promptly admitted it.
 Sought through prayer and meditation to improve our conscious contact with God as we understood Him, praying only for knowledge of His will for us and the power to carry that out.
 Having had a spiritual awakening as the result of these steps, we tried to carry this message to alcoholics and to practice these principles in all our affairs.
 (Alcoholics Anonymous (June 2001).
 “Chapter 5: How It Works.” Alcoholics Anonymous (4th ed.).
 Alcoholics Anonymous World Services.)
 “Essentially, behavioral therapy will help you modify your actions and intentions.”Most 12-step programs will include some or all of the steps listed above.
 Although these steps can be useful for many people throughout their recovery process, it is often more effective if the 12-step approach is paired with some type of behavioral therapy.
 This form of therapy can be used in conjunction with or separately from 12-step programs.
 Essentially, behavioral therapy will help you modify your actions and intentions.
 You may be used to depending on drugs or alcohol when you are bored or feeling a lot of stress, but behavioral therapy will help you learn how to deal with these situations via other options.
 According to the National Institute of Health, behavioral therapy is very useful in a recovery program, but it is not the only option.
 Every addict needs a unique approach to recovery, and the approach that will work best for you is dependent on your individual beliefs, needs and circumstances.
 The Role of Faith in Recovering from Addiction Faith in a higher power is one of the most essential ingredients in the traditional 12-step process.
 If your faith is important to you, you may need to find a program that will allow you to really embrace your beliefs.
 For many people, a traditional 12-step approach works for them, but others need to focus on a program that is centered on a particular religion.
 Several religious groups, including the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, offer 12-step recovery programs and support groups designed to help people with strong religious beliefs.
 There are even groups that have been designed to help pagans who are in recovery.
 For some people, the traditional 12-step technique is not ideal because they do not like the faith-based aspects of that approach.
 If you fall into that category, you may want to look for a recovery program that offers a more secular method of treatment.
 You will be able to find a recovery center that integrates elements of the 12-step approach in a non-religious manner.
 Peer Support &amp; The Community Aspect of 12 Step Programs One important aspect of most 12-step programs is the feeling of community you get when you join one of these groups.
 In most cases, you will attend meetings where each person discusses his or her addiction as well as the recovery process.
 Through this fellowship, you can get the support you need to move forward with your life.
 Being surrounded by people who understand what you have gone through and what you are going through can be an essential part of a successful recovery process.
 According to Alcoholics Anonymous, there are a few different types of meetings.
 When looking for a 12-step group, you should try to find a group that offers meetings that will be of most benefit to you.
 The types of meetings and their descriptions are as follows:  Speaker meetings, where group members share their stories Discussion meetings, where you talk about problems related to or caused by drinking Step meetings, where you discuss the 12 steps Informational meetings, where people can learn more about 12-step programs  Because your peers are such an influential part of most 12-step processes, you should focus on finding a group that feels right to you.
 You may need to experience more than one group before you find the one that is right for you.
 During meetings, you may get to talk with other addicts about how they dealt with particular problems.
 Their experiences can help you learn to deal with triggers and avoid relapses.
 However, dealing with triggers on your own can be difficult, and for this reason, you may want to find a 12-step program that also incorporates behavioral therapy into its approach.
 Knowing When to Seek Professional Help Beyond the 12 Steps The 12-step approach to therapy has helped thousands of people quit abusing drugs or alcohol.
 However, it may sometimes be necessary for addicts to find programs that offer more than this approach.
 If you are struggling with a serious addiction, you may need to consider spending some time in an inpatient treatment center.
 At an inpatient rehab center, you may also be able to attend 12-step meetings.
 In addition, you could spend time in private therapy sessions, and you may get a chance to relax and take a break from life.
 If you decide that you need the assistance offered by an inpatient recovery program, you should attempt to find the best facility possible.
 You may be able to find a treatment center that offers meetings with a 12-step support group as well as great amenities like private rooms, swimming pools or exercise classes.
 Finding the right facility for your needs can be a difficult process, but with a little help, you can easily find a center that will meet all of your needs.
 Get Help &amp; Take the First Step If you or someone you love is struggling with an addiction, it is never too soon to get help.
 Combining the 12-step approach to treatment with behavioral therapy may be just what you need.
 If you are ready to take the first step, we have the experience you need to find the best inpatient 12-step behavioral addiction programs, and we are standing by to help you now.
 When you contact us at 1-888-319-2606  	Who Answers?
 , we will help you find the 12-step addiction recovery program that is the best for your needs.
 You are never too old to improve your health and quality of life!
 You are never too old to improve your health and quality of life!
 Call 1-888-319-2606  	Who Answers?
 Featured TreatmentCenter Providers 	          							Maple Mountain Recovery						  4     Joint commission accreditation							  Recreational therapy							  Bio Sound lounge							  Neurofeedback							     						Call for info at 					   							8889785994						   						or 					  						Get Details Here 					            							Greenhouse Treatment Center						  4     Art Therapy							  Motivational Interviewing							  Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy (CBT)							  Recreational Activities							     						Call for info at 					   							8882519539						   						or 					  						Get Details Here 					        		Featured Treatment Center Providers 	   			Maple Mountain Recovery		  			727 E 1100 S			 				Mapleton, UT 84664			                       					Excellent - 				  					58 Reviews				    					Call 888-978-5994				  					View Profile 				        			Greenhouse Treatment Center		  			1171 107th Street			 				Grand Prairie, TX 75050			                       					Great - 				  					147 Reviews				    					Call 888-251-9539				  					View Profile 				               Browse Centers 				   ALAKAZARCACOCTDEFLGAHIIDILINIAKSKYLAMEMDMAMIMNMSMOMTNENVNHNJNMNYNCNDOHOKORPARISCSDTNTXUTVTVAWAWVWIWY        Adderall Addiction and Recovery Guides for Specific Groups Addiction Rehab During the Coronavirus Pandemic Q&amp;A Aftercare Programs for People in Addiction Recovery Alcoholics Anonymous (12-Step) Ambien Facts Amphetamine Facts Antidepressant Facts Ativan Bath Salts Facts Codeine Rehab Concerta Crack Cocaine Crystal Meth Facts Dexedrine DMT Facts Ecstasy (MDMA) Facts &amp; Information About Salvia Divinorum Alcohol Facts  Fentanyl PCP Amytal Barbiturate Benzodiazepine Clonidine Dextromethorphan Painkiller / Pain Pill Sleeping Pill Soma Finding Treatment for Different Types of Eating Disorders Flexeril Gabapentin Heroin Cocaine How Does Addiction Rehab Help Those with Dual Diagnosis Ambien Hydrocodone Hydromorphone Inhalants Ketamine Facts Klonopin Kratom LSD Lyrica Maintaining Your Recovery while Facing Anxiety, Social Distancing, and Isolation Medications Used in Addiction Treatment Methadone Methylphenidate Facts Morphine Facts Norco Opiate Opium Options on How to Effectively Treat Anxiety Disorders Oxycodone PCP Percocet Phenobarbital Psilocybin Mushroom Facts &amp; Information Quaalude Recovery Options for Treating PTSD Rohypnol Facts Spice and K2 Facts Steroids Suboxone Substance Abuse and Sleep Disorders Tramadol Valium Vicodin Marijuana Facts OxyContin Tranquilizers What Is 2C-B?
 Facts &amp; Information Xanax Facts Alcohol Prescription Drug Recovery Programs Behavioral Disorders  Exercise for Addiction Recovery Exercise Gambling Internet Love/Romance Pornography Sexual Addiction Shopping Video Game Workaholics 12-Step Behavioral Addiction Programs   Finding Recovery Programs and Support Groups Addiction Signs, Symptoms, Effects and Treatment GHB Learn About Psychological and Mental Disorder Recovery Methamphetamine Speed Interventionist Service Drug Rehab Treatment Information What Role Does Addiction Rehabilitation Therapy Play in Recovery?
 Your Guide to Addiction Recovery &amp; Relapse       					Pro Corner Posts 				       											Enhance Your Wellbeing: Find Purpose										        Nadia Ghaffari          											Enhance Your Wellbeing: Write &amp; Reflect										        Nadia Ghaffari          											The Power of Social Connection During COVID-19										        Nadia Ghaffari          											Approaches to Self-Care As We Gradually Emerge Out of Shelter-in-Place										        Nadia Ghaffari                 		Select Topic  		 Adderall Addiction and Recovery Guides for Specific Groups Addiction Rehab During the Coronavirus Pandemic Q&amp;A Aftercare Programs for People in Addiction Recovery Alcoholics Anonymous (12-Step) Ambien Facts Amphetamine Facts Antidepressant Facts Ativan Bath Salts Facts Codeine Rehab Concerta Crack Cocaine Crystal Meth Facts Dexedrine DMT Facts Ecstasy (MDMA) Facts &amp; Information About Salvia Divinorum Alcohol Facts  Fentanyl PCP Amytal Barbiturate Benzodiazepine Clonidine Dextromethorphan Painkiller / Pain Pill Sleeping Pill Soma Finding Treatment for Different Types of Eating Disorders Flexeril Gabapentin Heroin Cocaine How Does Addiction Rehab Help Those with Dual Diagnosis Ambien Hydrocodone Hydromorphone Inhalants Ketamine Facts Klonopin Kratom LSD Lyrica Maintaining Your Recovery while Facing Anxiety, Social Distancing, and Isolation Medications Used in Addiction Treatment Methadone Methylphenidate Facts Morphine Facts Norco Opiate Opium Options on How to Effectively Treat Anxiety Disorders Oxycodone PCP Percocet Phenobarbital Psilocybin Mushroom Facts &amp; Information Quaalude Recovery Options for Treating PTSD Rohypnol Facts Spice and K2 Facts Steroids Suboxone Substance Abuse and Sleep Disorders Tramadol Valium Vicodin Marijuana Facts OxyContin Tranquilizers What Is 2C-B?
 Facts &amp; Information Xanax Facts Alcohol Prescription Drug Recovery Programs Behavioral Disorders Finding Recovery Programs and Support Groups Addiction Signs, Symptoms, Effects and Treatment GHB Learn About Psychological and Mental Disorder Recovery Methamphetamine Speed Interventionist Service Drug Rehab Treatment Information What Role Does Addiction Rehabilitation Therapy Play in Recovery?
 Your Guide to Addiction Recovery &amp; Relapse         			The road to recovery can seem overwhelming.
 We are here to help.
 Call 1-888-319-2606  	Who Answers?
 Does My Insurance Cover Treatment?
 Use our free and confidential online insurance checker.
 Check Insurance 		       		 Browse Centers 	   ALAKAZARCACOCTDEFLGAHIIDILINIAKSKYLAMEMDMAMIMNMSMOMTNENVNHNJNMNYNCNDOHOKORPARISCSDTNTXUTVTVAWAWVWIWY               			Addiction can distort our perception, but a life in recovery can restore our ability to find peace once again.
 Call Us Today!
 1-888-319-2606  	Who Answers?
 Select State by Letter 		     						A					    						B					    						C					    						D					    						E					    						F					    						G					    						H					    						I					    						J					    						K					    						L					    						M					    						N					    						O					    						P					    						Q					    						R					    						S					    						T					    						U					    						V					    						W					    						X					    						Y					    						Z					     			Results 		    					Alabama				    					Alaska				    					Arizona				    					Arkansas				    					California				    					Colorado				    					Connecticut				    					Delaware				    					District Of Columbia				    					Florida				    					Georgia				    					Hawaii				    					Idaho				    					Illinois				    					Indiana				    					Iowa				    					Kansas				    					Kentucky				    					Louisiana				    					Maine				    					Maryland				    					Massachusetts				    					Michigan				    					Minnesota				    					Mississippi				    					Missouri				    					Montana				    					Nebraska				    					Nevada				    					New Hampshire				    					New Jersey				    					New Mexico				    					New York				    					North Carolina				    					North Dakota				    					Ohio				    					Oklahoma				    					Oregon				    					Pennsylvania				    					Rhode Island				    					South Carolina				    					South Dakota				    					Tennessee				    					Texas				    					Utah				    					Vermont				    					Virginia				    					Washington				    					West Virginia				    					Wisconsin				    					Wyoming				       GENERAL DISCLAIMER Recovery.org is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in providing medical or health advice.
 The information provided through Recovery.org is not to be used for diagnosing or treating any health problem or disease.
 It is not meant to be a substitute for professional care.
 If you have or suspect you may have a health problem you should consult your health care provider.
 All Recovery.org authors, editors, producers, and contributors shall have no liability, obligation, or responsibility to any person or entity for any loss, damage, or adverse consequence alleged to have happened directly or indirectly as a consequence of material on this website or any linked to content or providers referred to.
 Recovery.org is operated by Recovery Brands LLC, a subsidiary of American Addiction Centers, Inc.
 Learn more about what this means here.
 © Recovery.org 2020 All Rights Reserved  	   					Terms of Use				    					Privacy Policy
