Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 ","image":"https:\/\/www.snopes.com\/uploads\/2017\/05\/fidget_spinner_fb-1-865x452.jpg","description":"A single small independent study stating that unusual amounts of lead were found in a few fidget spinners has been twisted into a fear-mongering report.
 Do ‘Fidget Spinners’ Contain Deadly Amounts of Lead?
 A single small independent study stating that unusual amounts of lead were found in a few fidget spinners has been twisted into a fear-mongering report.
 Dan Evon       Published 3 June 2017           													Image via Shutterstock                  				smg.ads.load( 'post-featured-1' ); 			    Claim  An official report has confirmed that fidget spinners contain a deadly amount of lead.
 Rating         Mixture About this rating      What's True An individual conducted tests on a handful of fidget spinners and found that a couple contained supposedly unhealthy amounts of lead.
 What's False The referenced tests only included a small amount fidget spinners and did not detect "deadly" levels of lead, and no report on unsafe levels of lead being found in fidget spinners has been issued by the FDA or other regulatory/scientific body.
 Do you rely on Snopes reporting?
 Become a member today.
 smg.ads.load( 'rating-1' ); 			    Origin  Several articles concerning the alleged dangers of lead in fidget spinners were published by web sites such as American Freedom Fighters and The Federalist Papers in June 2017 under clickbait, fear-mongering headlines such as “ALERT: Throw Away All ‘Fidget Spinners’ NOW — Authorities Release New Report Confirming They Can KILL Your Child.” These headlines contained several pieces of misinformation.
 First, the referenced “new report” did not issue from “authorities” such as the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission or the Food and Drug Administration.
 Rather, it came from a Facebook video and subsequent posts published by Tamara Rubin, a lead-poisoning prevention advocate and documentary ﬁlmmaker:  Rubin tested several brands of fidget spinners and claimed that she found unusual amounts of lead in a few of them.
 Although we have not been able to verify her test results (her study has not been replicated or peer-reviewed), we can say that the results of her study were not in line with the fear-mongering articles published about them.
 For starters, Rubin did not say that “all” fidget spinners contain high amounts of lead; rather, she told Inhabitat that after testing eleven fidget spinners, she found only two that allegedly contained unsafe levels of lead: Rubin, an independent lead poisoning prevention advocate, first tested three fidget spinners sent to her by a friend with an XRF instrument.
 Two were lead-free, but one had very high levels of lead and some mercury.
 She then disassembled a fidget spinner with LED lights and found both lead and mercury.
 She found 19,000 parts per million (ppm) of lead and 1,000 ppm of mercury.
 These numbers are sobering because scientists consider under 90 ppm of lead to be the safe threshold in children’s toys, according to Rubin.
 But the paint on the LED light spinner contained 334 ppm of lead and 155 ppm of mercury in one test.
 The unpainted metal base contained 1,562 ppm of mercury and 2,452 ppm of lead.
 Rubin later tested six more fidget spinners and found a $31 [spinner] from Yomaxer that contained 42,800 ppm of lead.
 She noted ordinary consumers won’t have access to an XRF instrument, which can cost around $50,000.
 She recommends avoiding fidget spinners available for purchase and instead making your own, such as a fidget spinner out of LEGOs.
 In an email about her results, Rubin said she’s very concerned about the high levels of lead discovered in random testing as the toys are so popular.
 So far she’s tested 11 fidget spinners in total and found two with exceedingly dangerous levels of lead.
 She tested a handful of devices and claimed that she found unusual amounts of lead in two of them.
 Although reports about Rubin’s study exaggerated the dangers of fidget spinners, some reports do possibly raise legitimate safety concerns about these devices.
 The Toy Association published a press release in May 2016 urging parents, among other precautions, to purchase fidget spinners only from reputable retailers: Shop at a reputable retailer that you know and trust.
 Those retailers will be selling products that have been tested and comply with strict U.S. safety standards.
 When a craze like the fidget spinners hits, you may be tempted to buy one for your child wherever you can find one (like at a pop-up vendor on the street or from an unknown online seller), but the safety of products sold outside a reputable retailer cannot be guaranteed.
 Customs officials in the Republic of Ireland recently seized nearly 200,000 fidget spinners amidst safety fears: The Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (CCPC) said it became concerned that some spinners for sale in Ireland may not meet EU product safety standards.
 A spokeswoman said consignments were being referred to their safety unit on a daily basis, so it was difficult to give an exact figure.
 “We are currently examining samples of those products.
 Although some off-brand (or counterfeit brands) of fidget spinners may contain levels of lead considered to be unsafe, articles claiming that all fidget spinners pose a deadly risk to children are exaggerations based upon a single small unofficial report.
 Snopes.com   Since 1994     Help Supercharge Snopes For 2020  				We have big plans.
 We need your help.
 Become a member!
 Published 3 June 2017   By   Dan Evon     Filed Under   fidget spinners   lead       Sources        BBC.
 “Fidget Spinners Seized by Irish Customs Over Safety Fears.”     26 May 2017.                  				smg.ads.load( 'post-footer-1' ); 			    Editors' Picks         No, Trump Did Not Call for Biden’s Assassination    															29 October 2020													  							Fact Check						   Critics of the president latched onto his use of the phrase "Joe's shot," in a speech in October 2020.
 What did he actually say?
 Is America Really ‘Rounding the Turn’ on COVID-19?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   We fact-checked the claims of those who sought to downplay the seriousness of the pandemic in the weeks prior to the 2020 presidential election.
 Did Searches for “Change My Vote” Spike After Final Prez Debate or Hunter Biden Controversy?
 30 October 2020													  							News						   Trendception: A master class in the use of spurious data to make bogus and self-referential political talking points unsupported by empirical evidence.
 Did US Gas Prices Average $5 Per Gallon Under Obama and Biden?
 30 October 2020													  							Fact Check						   Viral images of Exxon gas station signs were shared in October 2020, ahead of Election Day.
 Will There Be a Full ‘Blue’ Moon on Halloween 2020?
 30 October 2020													  							Fact Check						   Readers beware.
 The conditions are perfect this year for a werewolf sighting.
 Did a Fox 2 Detroit Report Expose Voter Fraud in the 2020 Election?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   An image graphic detailing an assortment of potential election crimes was shared on social media the day after the 2020 presidential election.
 Was the 2020 U.S. Presidential Election Winner Announced Yet?
 3 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   The world is watching to see if U.S. President Donald Trump wins a second term, or if Joe Biden becomes the 46th president of the United States.
 Were Trump Ballots Marked with Sharpies Disqualified in Arizona?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Arizona was one of several states apparently won by Joe Biden in 2020 that were targeted by election-related conspiracy theories.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			     Snopes.com needs your help.Become a member today.
 Learn How          				smg.ads.load( 'side-3' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 See the whole collection.
 Support Us       					You rely on Snopes, and we rely on you.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
