Saturday, November 7, 2020			  Editions  EU Edition U.K.
 Edition U.S.
 Edition   Events  About POLITICO Events Future Events   More Info  About Us Advertising Content Studio Press Print Edition Contact Us Jobs Careers at POLITICO               Primary Menu                                   Politico Pro    Register Sign In                 			Search for:		    				Submit			        	  	    Politico Pro         							Explore						    							Subscribe and more						          Featured Sections     									 									Brussels 																			    									 									Germany 																			    									 									France 																			    									 									Britain 																			    									 									Migration 																			    									 									Elections in Europe 																			    									 									Defense 																			    									 									Foreign Policy 																			    									 									Poll of Polls 																			    									 									Continent 																			    									 									Special Reports 																			      Policy Areas     									 									Agriculture and Food 																			    									 									Brexit Transition 																			    									 									Competition and Industrial Policy 																			    									 									Cybersecurity and Data Protection 																			    									 									Energy and Climate 																			    									 									EU Budget 																			    									 									Financial Services 																			    									 									Health Care 																			    									 									Mobility 																			    									 									Sustainability 																			    									 									Technology 																			    									 									Trade 																			    									 									Trade UK 																			      Featured Series     									 									Telescope: AIDS 																			    									 									EU in Africa 																			    									 									Global Policy Lab 																			    									 									Changemakers 																			    									 									Energy Visions 																			    									 									The wonk's survival guide to the EU Green Deal 																			      Columns     									 									The Coming Wars 																			    									 									Europe At Large 																			    									 									World View 																			    									 									Beyond The Bubble 																			    									 									Declassified 																			          						Events					    								 								See all future events 																	    								 								November 5 — After the U.S. election: Building bridges or walls?
 November 17-18 — POLITICO's Health Care Summit 																	    								 								November 18 — Energy Visions Series – Carbon removal and natural sinks in reaching climate neutrality by 2050 																	    								 								November 19 — Making digital work for SMEs in Europe 																	    								 								November 25 — Will the EU be ready for all packaging to be sustainable by 2030?
 Editions					    								 								EU Edition 																	    								 								U.K.
 Edition 																	    								 								U.S.
 Edition 																	             					Newsletters				     									 									Brussels Playbook 																			 What’s driving the day in Brussels    									 									London Playbook 																			 What’s driving the day in Westminster    									 									EU Influence 																			 Campaigning, lobbying and political influence in the EU    									 									London Influence 																			 Campaigning, lobbying and political influence in the U.K.    									 									Sunday Crunch 																			    									 									AI Decoded 																			    									 									EU Confidential 																			    									 									Coronavirus Daily Update 																			    									 									EU In Africa 																			       					Multimedia				     									 									EU Confidential 																			    									 									Campaign Confidential 																			    									 									Print Edition 																			    									 									Poll of Polls 																			       					our apps				                                  Play Store         App Store      Social Links     Facebook        Twitter        LinkedIn                					 					 					Discover POLITICO Pro 											   					In-depth reporting, data and actionable intelligence for policy professionals – all in one place.
 After months of internal turmoil, the party chief Luigi Di Maio, who is also the foreign minister, announced his resignation as leader on Wednesday evening while retaining his government role ahead of two crucial regional elections on Sunday where the 5Stars are expected to suffer massive defeats.
 Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte told reporters on Wednesday that Di Maio’s resignation as party leader will not affect the government in any way.
 In last May’s European election, the 5Stars won 17 percent of the vote.
 They’ve also seen serious losses in multiple regional votes across the past 18 months, plummeting to below 10 percent in the Umbria election in October.
 In the upcoming elections the party isn’t running as part of a coalition with the PD, like in Umbria, and according to the latest available polls in both Calabria and Emilia-Romagna they are expected to score in the single digits.
 In October, 70 5Star lawmakers denounced the “dissolution” of the party’s spirit and the abandonment of its founding principles.
 The decision to govern with the PD, once the 5Stars’ sworn enemy, alienated many of the party’s core supporters.
 “The alliance with the PD might have avoided a general election, but it’s hard to explain to activists,” said Ernesto Di Giovanni, co-founder of Utopia, a Rome-based political consultancy.
 “Let’s not forget the PD is a pro-EU party, and Di Maio is the person who triggered a diplomatic crisis with France by visiting the leaders of the Yellow Jackets last year,” Di Giovanni added.
 Since taking power in September, the fragile coalition has repeatedly clashed on crucial policy issues including infrastructure, labor and industry.
 Di Maio arrives for a foreign affairs meeting at the EU headquarters in Brussels | John Thys/AFP via Getty Images One senator, Stefano Lucidi, left over disagreements about the party’s stance on reform of the EU’s European Stability Mechanism, saying he didn’t want to be “a hamster on a wheel [and he wanted] the freedom to express dissenting opinions.” The party’s leadership has tried to play down the defections, writing on the party’s blog “only six percent of the group’s lawmakers have left, which is too few to define it a diaspora as the media have done,” but 5Star lawmakers have repeatedly vented their frustrations with Di Maio and the party’s co-founder’s son, Davide Casaleggio — who owns and manages the digital democracy platform through which the party makes many of its decisions.
 According to four lawmakers, several of the group’s members are looking to join the League or Renzi’s Italia Viva party.
 Others might join Fioramonti’s new group should he decide to set one up.
 “You’ve now got a fragmented group of people,” Di Giovanni said.
 “The hard-liners want to go back to the origins, others want to be part of a progressive center-left coalition, the most liberal members feel closer to the center right, and you can’t be all these different things.” In October, 70 5Star lawmakers denounced the “dissolution” of the party’s spirit and the abandonment of its founding principles in a manifesto published online.
 The group lamented that the movement had renounced its identity to become part of the establishment.
 Davide Casaleggio speaks during a 5Star Movement demonstration at Circo Massimo in Rome | Massimo Percossi/EFE via EPA “The real issue will be deciding whether we want to keep the structure light or become an actual party with an articulated territorial structure,” said Antonio Zennaro, a member of parliament who leads the 5Stars delegation in the influential secret services oversight committee.
 “We can’t win at a local and regional level if we don’t have party structures,” he added.
 “The internet is an important tool in this day and age, but voters want to be able to touch you.
 We need to train a new generation of leaders.” Zennaro’s idea to equip the party with a traditional structure, a view that is shared by many of his colleagues, flies in the face of the founders’ desire to have the party governed through direct democracy.
 The party’s founders, Grillo and Davide Casaleggio’s father Gianroberto Casaleggio, “are people that used to go on the record to share their dreams of online democracies, where parliaments and parties no longer existed,” said one senior 5Star MP speaking on condition of anonymity.
 “It was the whole point of claiming we didn’t belong to the left nor to the right.” According to Di Giovanni, the movement has come to a crossroads.
 “It’s time for them to focus on the long term,” he said.
 “It’s not Di Maio’s fault, to be honest.
 The point is that the party lacks a clear ideology, political preparation, and they’ve exhausted their propelling force.
 According to members of his staff, his relationship with Grillo had deteriorated, leaving him without a strong political patron ahead of what is expected to be a major defeat in the Emilia-Romagna regional election Sunday.
 “He had no other choice,” one aid concluded.
 Also On POLITICO    Garbage pollutes relations between Italy’s governing parties  By Silvia Sciorilli Borrelli   Matteo Salvini plans return as PM, wants alliance with Trump  By Silvia Sciorilli Borrelli
