Skip to main content       Toggle navigation           Home  Medicines   Browse Medicine A-Z Browse Active Ingredient A-Z Medicines with Black Triangle Discontinued Medicines Report Side Effect RMM Directory   Companies Latest Updates About emc Help Sign up | Log in            Search emc: Enter medicine name or company  Start typing to retrieve search suggestions.
 When suggestions are available use up and down arrows to review and ENTER to select.
 Continue typing to refine.
 GO Advanced Search &gt;           Octanate LV 200 IU/ml powder and solvent for solution for injection      Back to top      Octapharma Limited contact details      Active ingredient  von willebrand factor human coagulation factor VIII von willebrand factor von willebrand factor    Legal Category POM: Prescription only medicine       Report Side Effect   Related Medicines  Same active ingredients Same company    Bookmark  Email        SmPC Patient Leaflet          Last updated on emc: 16 May 2019    View changes    Print      Show table of contents Hide table of contents  1.
 Name of the medicinal product2.
 Qualitative and quantitative composition3.
 Pharmaceutical form4.
 Clinical particulars4.1 Therapeutic indications4.2 Posology and method of administration4.3 Contraindications4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines4.8 Undesirable effects4.9 Overdose5.
 Pharmacological properties5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties5.2 Pharmacokinetic properties5.3 Preclinical safety data6.
 Pharmaceutical particulars6.1 List of excipients6.2 Incompatibilities6.3 Shelf life6.4 Special precautions for storage6.5 Nature and contents of container6.6 Special precautions for disposal and other handling7.
 Marketing authorisation holder8.
 Marketing authorisation number(s)9.
 Date of first authorisation/renewal of the authorisation10.
 Date of revision of the text         This information is intended for use by health professionals  1.
 Name of the medicinal product  Octanate LV 200 IU/ml    Powder and solvent for solution for injection  2.
 Qualitative and quantitative composition Each vial contains nominally 1000 IU human coagulation factor VIII.
 The product contains approximately 200 IU* per ml human coagulation factor VIII when reconstituted with 5 ml of solvent.
 The product contains approximately ≤ 120 IU per ml von Willebrand factor (VWF:RCo).
 * The potency (IU) is determined using the European Pharmacopoeia chromogenic assay.
 The mean specific activity of Octanate LV is ≥ 100 IU/mg protein.
 Produced from the plasma of human donors.
 Excipient with known effect: Sodium up to 1.75 mmol (40 mg) per dose Sodium concentration after reconstitution: 250 – 350 mmol/l For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
 3.
 Pharmaceutical form Powder and solvent for solution for injection.
 The powder is white or pale yellow, also appearing as a friable solid.
 The solvent is a clear, colourless liquid.
 4.
 Clinical particulars 4.1 Therapeutic indications Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency).
 Octanate LV can be used for all age groups.
 This preparation does not contain von Willebrand factor in pharmacologically effective quantities and is therefore not indicated in von Willebrand's disease.
 4.2 Posology and method of administration Treatment should be under the supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of haemophilia.
 Treatment monitoring During the course of treatment, appropriate determination of factor VIII levels is advised to guide the dose to be administered and the frequency of repeated infusions.
 Dose based on bodyweight may require adjustment in underweight or overweight patients.
 In the case of major surgical interventions in particular, precise monitoring of the substitution therapy by means of coagulation analysis (plasma factor VIII activity) is indispensable.
 Posology  The dose and duration of the substitution therapy depend on the severity of the factor VIII deficiency, on the location and extent of the bleeding, and on the patient's clinical condition.
 The number of units of factor VIII administered is expressed in International Units (IU), which are related to the current WHO concentrate standard for factor VIII products.
 Factor VIII activity in plasma is expressed either as a percentage (relative to normal human plasma) or in International Units (relative to an International Standard for factor VIII in plasma).
 One International Unit (IU) of factor VIII activity is equivalent to that quantity of factor VIII in one ml of normal human plasma.
 On-demand treatment The calculation of the required dosage of factor VIII is based on the empirical finding that 1 International Unit (IU) factor VIII per kg body weight raises the plasma factor VIII activity by 1.5 % to 2 % of normal activity.
 In the case of the following haemorrhagic events, the factor VIII activity should not fall below the given plasma activity level (in % of normal) in the corresponding period.
 The following table can be used to guide dosing in bleeding episodes and surgery:   Degree of haemorrhage/ Type of surgical procedure    Factor VIII level required (%) (IU/dl)    Frequency of doses (hours) / Duration of therapy (days)    Haemorrhage       Early haemarthrosis, muscle bleeding or oral bleeding  20 - 40  Repeat every 12 to 24 hours.
 At least 1 day, until the bleeding episode as indicated by pain is resolved or healing is achieved.
 More extensive haemarthrosis, muscle bleeding or haematoma  30 - 60  Repeat infusion every 12 to 24 hours for 3 to 4 days or more until pain and acute disability are resolved.
 Life-threatening haemorrhages  60 - 100  Repeat infusion every 8 to 24 hours until threat is resolved.
 Surgery        Minor Surgery including tooth extraction  30 - 60  Every 24 hours, at least 1 day, until healing is achieved.
 Major Surgery   80 - 100(pre- and postoperative)  Repeat infusion every 8 to 24 hours until adequate wound healing, then therapy for at least another 7 days to maintain a FVIII activity of 30% to 60%.
 Prophylaxis  For long-term prophylaxis against bleeding in patients with severe haemophilia A, the usual doses are 20 to 40 IU of factor VIII per kg body weight at intervals of 2 to 3 days.
 In some cases, especially in younger patients, shorter dosage intervals or higher does may be necessary.
 Continuous infusion  Prior to surgery, a pharmacokinetic analysis should be performed to obtain an estimate of clearance.
 After the initial 24 hours of continuous infusion, the clearance should be calculated again every day using the steady state equation with the measured level and the known rate of infusion.
 Paediatric population  A clinical study which was conducted in 15 patients of 6 years of age or less did not identify any special dosage requirements for children.
 For both treatment and prophylaxis, the posology is the same in adults and children.
 Method of administration  Intravenous use.
 It is recommended not to administer more than 2 - 3 ml per minute.
 For instructions on reconstitution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6.
 4.3 Contraindications Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use  Traceability   In order to improve traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number of the administered product should be clearly recorded.
 Hypersensitivity  Allergic type hypersensitivity reactions are possible with Octanate LV.
 The product contains traces of human proteins other than factor VIII.
 If symptoms of hypersensitivity occur, patients should be advised to discontinue use of the medicinal product immediately and contact their physician.
 Patients should be informed of the early signs of hypersensitivity reactions including hives, generalised urticaria, tightness of the chest, wheezing, hypotension, and anaphylaxis.
 .In case of shock, standard medical treatment of shock should be implemented.
 Inhibitors  The formation of neutralising antibodies (inhibitors) to factor VIII is a known complication in the management of individuals with haemophilia A.
 These inhibitors are usually IgG immunoglobulins directed against the factor VIII procoagulant activity, which are quantified in Bethesda Units (BU) per ml of plasma using the modified assay.
 The risk of developing inhibitors is correlated to the severity of the disease as well as the exposure to factor VIII, this risk being highest within the first 50 exposure days, but continues throughout life although the risk is uncommon The clinical relevance of inhibitor development will depend on the titre of the inhibitor, with low titre posing less of a risk of insufficient clinical response than high titre inhibitors.
 In general, all patients treated with coagulation factor VIII products should be carefully monitored for the development of inhibitors by appropriate clinical observations and laboratory tests.
 If the expected factor VIII activity plasma levels are not attained, or if bleeding is not controlled with an appropriate dose, testing for factor VIII inhibitor presence should be performed.
 In patients with high levels of inhibitor, factor VIII therapy may not be effective and other therapeutic options should be considered.
 Management of such patients should be directed by physicians with experience in the care of haemophilia and factor VIII inhibitors.
 Cardiovascular events   In patients with existing cardiovascular risk factors, substitution therapy with FVIII may increase the cardiovascular risk.
 Catheter-related complications  If a central venous access device (CVAD) is required, risk of CVAD-related complications including local infections, bacteraemia and catheter site thrombosis should be considered.
 Transmissible agents Standard measures to prevent infections resulting from the use of medicinal products prepared from human blood or plasma include selection of donors, screening of individual donations and plasma pools for specific markers of infection and the inclusion of effective manufacturing steps for the inactivation/removal of viruses.
 Despite this, when medicinal products prepared from human blood or plasma are administered, the possibility of transmitting infective agents cannot be totally excluded.
 This also applies to unknown or emerging viruses and other pathogens.
 The measures taken are considered effective for enveloped viruses such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV), and for the non-enveloped virus hepatitis A virus (HAV).
 The measures taken may be of limited value against non-enveloped viruses such as parvovirus B19.
 Parvovirus B19 infection may be serious for pregnant women (foetal infection) and for individuals with immunodeficiency or increased erythropoiesis (e.g.
 haemolytic anaemia).
 Appropriate vaccination (hepatitis A and B) should be considered for patients in regular/repeated receipt of human plasma-derived factor VIII products.
 It is strongly recommended that every time Octanate LV is administered to a patient, the name and batch number of the product are recorded in order to maintain a link between the patient and the batch of the product.
 This medicinal product contains up to 1.75 mmol sodium (40 mg) per dose.
 To be taken into consideration by patients on a controlled sodium diet.
 Paediatric population  The listed warnings and precautions apply to both adults and children.
 4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction No interactions of human coagulation factor VIII products with other medicinal products have been reported.
 4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with factor VIII.
 Based on the rare occurrence of haemophilia A in women, experience regarding the use of factor VIII during pregnancy and breast-feeding is not available.
 Therefore, factor VIII should be used during pregnancy and lactation only if clearly indicated.
 4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines Octanate LV has no influence on the ability to drive and use machines.
 4.8 Undesirable effects  Summary of the safety profile  Hypersensitivity or allergic reactions (which may include angiooedema, burning and stinging at the infusion site, chills, flushing, generalised urticaria, headache, hives, hypotension, lethargy, nausea, restlessness, tachycardia, chest tightness, tingling, vomiting, wheezing) have been observed rarely, and may in some cases progress to severe anaphylaxis (including shock).
 On rare occasions, fever has been observed.
 Development of neutralising antibodies (inhibitors) may occur in patients with haemophilia A treated with factor VIII, including with Octanate LV see section 5.1.
 If such inhibitors occur, the condition will manifest itself as an insufficient clinical response.
 In such cases, it is recommended that a specialised haemophilia centre be contacted.
 For safety information with respect to transmissible agents, see section 4.4.
 Tabulated list of adverse reactions  The table presented below is according to the MedDRA system organ classification (SOC and Preferred Term Level).
 Frequencies have been evaluated according to the following convention: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to 50 EDs and FVIII:C ');  ($.fn.alert&amp;&amp;$.fn.alert.Constructor.VERSION)||document.write(' ');
