Publisher Gary Schwitzer and other contributors may post new articles periodically.
 But all of the 6,000+ articles we have published contain lessons to help you improve your critical thinking about health care interventions.
 And those will be still be alive on the site for a couple of years.
 Story Reviews News Release Review Blog Posts    6151 Posts 2616 Story Reviews 606 News Release Reviews 2929 Blog Posts   Home Story Reviews News Release Reviews Blog Podcasts About Us Editorial Team What We Review and How Review Criteria How Is the Star Score Determined?
 Our Comments Policy Accolades for HealthNewsReview.org Talks, Workshops &amp; Presentations Toolkit Tips for Analyzing Studies &amp; Health Care Claims Just for Journalists: Writing Tips Stories of Patient Harm from Misleading Media Pre-publication News Release Review Health News Watchdog podcasts News Sites &amp; Blogs We Like List of Industry-Independent Experts Links to Other Resources Contact    Menu               March 1, 2012 Read Original StoryStudy: Brain suffers when fish oil falls short   Reviewed By Rating  Categories  CNN, health food claims Tags  Omega-3  Study: Brain suffers when fish oil falls short   Our Review SummaryThe story didn’t include even a word about the limitations of the study, and it didn’t challenge many questionable claims about the benefits of DHA made by an expert source.
 Why This MattersWhen a story quotes an expert whose recommendations differ from those of major medical organizations, it owes readers an explanation as to why they should follow the advice.
 But in this story, an expert recommends that everyone get 1000 mg of DHA a day — which is far more than you would receive by following American Heart Association recommendations to eat two fish meals a week.
 And the only support the story offers are vague statements about how DHA “increases blood flow in the brain, reduces inflammation in the brain, heart and elsewhere, and reduces the toxic aggregation of amyloid in the brain.” Readers deserve better.
 This story is about blood levels and surrogate markers of dementia (early changes in cognitive tests and MRI changes), not the ultimate health outcome of interest – dementia.
 The story should have pointed out the difference between supplements and dietary sources.
 We don’t know much definitively about supplements, but we do know more from observational studies of fish consumption.
 Criteria  Does the story adequately discuss the costs of the intervention?
 Not Satisfactory The recommendations quoted in this story — get 1000 mg/d of DHA — are only achievable by taking supplements, so the story should have included a comment about how much these cost.
 Does the story adequately quantify the benefits of the treatment/test/product/procedure?
 Not Satisfactory The story includes many sketchy statements about DHA, citing benefits for “improving mood” and “reducing symptoms of depression.” The story made these as flat statements of fact, but this is far from established science.
 It also failed to provide quantified benefits from the study in question.
 Where are the absolute risk reduction figures?
 “They found people in the bottom 25% scored lower on such mental tests as problem solving, multi-tasking and abstract thinking…..The MRIs showed higher white matter hyperintensity volume, tiny lesions in the brain, raising the risk for death, stroke and dementia for the low omega-3 fatty acids group.” Does the story adequately explain/quantify the harms of the intervention?
 Satisfactory The story does mention that DHA has the potential to cause problems in people taking blood-thinning medication.
 Does the story seem to grasp the quality of the evidence?
 Not Satisfactory There was no discussion of any possible limitations to this research.
 A basic discussion of the limitations of observational study data would have been useful.
 Not sure how to do that?
 Read this.
 Does the story commit disease-mongering?
 Satisfactory There was no outright disease mongering, but the headline’s suggestion that your brain may “suffer” without sufficient DHA comes close.
 Does the story use independent sources and identify conflicts of interest?
 Not Satisfactory The story did consult an independent expert.
 However, this expert’s recommendations opened the door to a lot of questionable statements about the benefits of DHA.
 So this is a rare case where the story probably would have been better without this outside perspective.
 Does the story compare the new approach with existing alternatives?
 Satisfactory The story mentions alternative sources of omega-3 fatty acids and recommends the MyPlate government dietary guide.
 Other alternatives for dementia prevention such as exercise and mental stimulation could have been mentioned as well.
 Does the story establish the availability of the treatment/test/product/procedure?
 Not Applicable The availability of fish and fish oil supplements is not in question.
 Does the story establish the true novelty of the approach?
 Not Satisfactory The story did not reference previous research suggesting a link between fish and cognitive function during aging.
 Does the story appear to rely solely or largely on a news release?
 Not Satisfactory We’ll flag the story here for pulling a quote directly from an American Academy of Neurology press release without stating that was the case.
 Here is the quote in question, which is attributed to a researcher with the study: “People with lower levels of omega-3 fatty acids had lower brain volumes that were equivalent to about two years of brain aging.” The story does make it sound as though the reporter talked directly to the researcher, so it’s not clear exactly what happened.
 But it’s fishy.
 Total Score: 3 of 9 Satisfactory  You might also like   Fish oil after a heart attack: TIME misses the mark by leaving out harms, study limitations More backstory needed on study of 'brain training' benefits for dementia Bravo, New York Times, for using absolute risk reduction numbers in story on fish oil for asthma  Comments Please note, comments are no longer published through this website.
 All previously made comments are still archived and available for viewing through select posts.
 × Our Comments Policy We welcome comments, which users can leave at the end of any of our systematic story reviews or at the end of any of our blog posts.
 But before leaving a comment, please review these notes about our policy.
 You are responsible for any comments you leave on this site.
 This site is primarily a forum for discussion about the quality (or lack thereof) in journalism or other media messages (advertising, marketing, public relations, medical journals, etc.)
 It is not intended to be a forum for definitive discussions about medicine or science.
 We will delete comments that include personal attacks, unfounded allegations, unverified claims, product pitches, profanity or any from anyone who does not list a full name and a functioning email address.
 We will also end any thread of repetitive comments.
 We don”t give medical advice so we won”t respond to questions asking for it.
 We don”t have sufficient staffing to contact each commenter who left such a message.
 If you have a question about why your comment was edited or removed, you can email us at feedback@healthnewsreview.org.
 There has been a recent burst of attention to troubles with many comments left on science and science news/communication websites.
 Read “Online science comments:  trolls, trash and treasure.” The authors of the Retraction Watch comments policy urge commenters: “Shed light, not just heat.
 Facts, challenges, disagreements, corrections — those are all fine.
 Attacking the person, instead of the idea or the interpretation, is neither acceptable nor helpful.” We”re also concerned about anonymous comments.
 We ask that all commenters leave their full name and provide an actual email address in case we feel we need to contact them.
 We may delete any comment left by someone who does not leave their name and a legitimate email address.
 And, as noted, product pitches of any sort – pushing treatments, tests, products, procedures, physicians, medical centers, books, websites – are likely to be deleted.
 We don”t accept advertising on this site and are not going to give it away free.
 The ability to leave comments expires after a certain period of time.
 So you may find that you’re unable to leave a comment on an article that is more than a few months old.
 You might also like   Fish oil after a heart attack: TIME misses the mark by leaving out harms, study limitations More backstory needed on study of 'brain training' benefits for dementia Bravo, New York Times, for using absolute risk reduction numbers in story on fish oil for asthma   	Story Reviews  Systematic, Criteria-Driven News Organizations’ Overall Grades  @HealthNewsRevu Retweet on TwitterHealthNewsReview.org RetweetedPaul John Scott@pauljohnscott·@garyschwitzer has been a trailblazer in protecting us from bamboozled health reporting.
 Thrilled to get his endorsement here for #Malcharist, which fictionalizes problems he first helped us see.
 https://twitter.com/garyschwitzer/status/1310190671555375109Reply on Twitter 1310210060212150273Retweet on Twitter 13102100602121502732Like on Twitter 13102100602121502733Twitter 1310210060212150273HealthNewsReview.org@HealthNewsRevu·How #COVID19 drug/vaccine decisions might be based on results in dozens of people, not the thousands we read about in the daily tsunami of news about the race in competing trials.
 https://www.healthnewsreview.org/2020/09/how-covid-19-drug-vaccine-decisions-might-be-based-on-little-evidence/ Reply on Twitter 1309174175370747909Retweet on Twitter 13091741753707479095Like on Twitter 13091741753707479095Twitter 1309174175370747909Retweet on TwitterHealthNewsReview.org RetweetedJAMA Internal Medicine@JAMAInternalMed·Major revisions + reversals of reporting about the efficacy of remdesivir and HCQ have compromised the public's trust in scientists and physicians.
