Like D’Souza’s new film, “America,” the book discusses American exceptionalism and argues against some of the claims of those on the far left.
 Now, the Costco CFO said the book will return to shelves and denied that the books were pulled for political reasons, instead blaming lackluster book sales.
 “America,” however, is number one on Amazon and on track to become a bestseller.
 Bill Ayers, Dinesh D’Souza Debate American Exceptionalism  	On Hannity Tuesday night, D'Souza called it "bizarre behavior" by Costco and responded that their argument about book sales is "preposterous."
 "This is clearly a political decision that they made.
 I think it's because of their alliance with the Obama administration and now they're feeling the heat so they're trying to figure out how to wriggle out of it," he said.
 Hannity then laid out examples of Costco getting high praise from President Obama, along with the company's former CEO donating $100,000 to the Obama campaign in 2012.
 Costco employee donations to the Obama campaign totaled more than $200,000 for 2008 and 2012 combined.
 D'Souza says those political leanings shouldn't result in Costco changing how it does business, arguing their customers are from all over the political spectrum.
 "The left in this country has so much intolerance that they not only try to go after me through the courts, but they also figure out: let's try to ruin this guy's livelihood, let's try to make sure people don't see his film, let's try to make sure they don't buy his books.
 And the left is willing to wage that kind of a scorched-earth campaign through a company like Costco," he said.
 Watch the full interview above.
 “America” co-producer Gerald Molen was also on The Kelly File to discuss Costco's decision and subsequent reversal.
 He said the situation is strange, since the book was released on June 1 and pulled July 1, coinciding with the release of the film.
 Megyn Kelly noted that the former CEO of Costco is a huge Obama donor and asked Molen if he thinks that there’s a connection.
 “I see a connection, certainly,” Molen said.
 D’Souza Speaks Out on Alleged Campaign Finance Violation  	Costco said the book will return to shelves within two weeks.
 “Why wait the two weeks?
 Why not do it right now?
 Why not show the American people that they mean what they say?
 I’ll be suspect until I see it happen, and even then I’ll always be a little suspect of why they did this in the first place,” Molen said.
 Watch the discussion below:                                          Latest from Fox News Channel        Share        Rep. Zeldin Calls for House to Take Up Anti-BDS Legislation, 'Forcefully Condemn' Anti-Semitism      Rep. Lee Zeldin and several of his House Republican colleagues are hoping to force a vote on a bill meant to oppose the anti-Israel Boycott, Divest and Sanctions (BDS) movement.
 Share            Share        'The Most Enduring Moral, Political Issue of Our Time': Brit Hume on Abortion Debate      The pro-choice versus pro-life debate is the "most enduring moral and political issue of our time," Fox News senior political analyst Brit Hume said Wednesday.
 Share            Share        McCarthy: 'Ridiculous' for Brennan to Criticize Review of Russia Probe's Origins      Former U.S. attorney and Fox News contributor Andy McCarthy said it’s “ridiculous” that some Democrats are complaining about Attorney General William Barr’s review of the origins of the Russia investigation.
 Share            Share        Pavlich: Kamala Harris' Gun Control Proposals Are 'Going to Be a Problem for Her'      Katie Pavlich said Sen. Kamala Harris’ proposed executive action on gun control would be “an attack on Second Amendment rights.”      Share        1 2 3 … next ›  Load More         The Five            Gutfeld on Media's 'Pavlovian' Response to NYT 'Bombshell' on Trump's Taxes            'Political Warfare': Watters, 'The Five' on Dems Threatening Gov't Officials' Salaries            'Media Slip-Up': 'The Five' on MSNBC Reporter Making Gun Rights Argument in Venezuela Coverage           The Story with Martha MacCallum           'Unforgivable Sin': Starr Blasts Mueller for Leaking Letter on Eve of Barr's Senate Testimony            Rep. Swalwell: Attorney General Barr's 'Credibility Was Destroyed' at Senate Hearing            Fiorina: Recent Accusations Against Biden 'Diminish' Cases of 'Real Abuse' of Women           Tucker Carlson Tonight           'The Most Enduring Moral, Political Issue of Our Time': Brit Hume on Abortion Debate            Lara Trump: New Senate Subpoena to Trump Jr.
 Amounts to 'Harassment' of Trump Family            'I Was Concerned': Mom, Teen Daughters Harassed by PA Dem Outside Planned Parenthood Clinic           Hannity           'Comey Abused His Power': Hannity Says Evidence Against 'Disgraced' Former FBI Director Is Mounting            Levin on 'Hannity': Special Counsel or US Attorney Should Probe Comey, Other FBI Officials            Rep. Meadows: Democrats 'Going Crazy Because They Know Truth Is Coming Out'           The Ingraham Angle           Ingraham: Dems Committing 'Self-Sabotage' With Trump Obsession Ahead of 2020            Ingraham: Dems Refuse to Accept Reality on Collusion, Keep Selling 'Poison to Scandal Addicts'            Ingraham: Dems 'Crashed and Burned' Opposing Kavanaugh, Now Trying Same 'Stunts' Against Barr           More Shows         NEW Privacy Policy NEW TERMS OF USE Do Not Sell my Personal Information              This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
 ©2020 FOX News Network, LLC.
 All rights reserved.
