 WHO Results Report 
 Programme Budget 2018-2019
 M˜d-Term Rev˜ew 
 Photo cred˜ts
Front cover Œ WHO/Y Sh˜m˜zu
Page 1 Œ WHO/C Black
Page 4 Œ WHO/A Loke
Page 6 Œ WHO Reg˜onal O˚ce for Europe

Page 7 - WHO/Ol˜v˜a Acland
Page 11 Œ WHO/C McNab
Page 14 Œ WHO/W Owens
Page 15 Œ WHO/L Mackenz˜e
Page 17 Œ WHO/E Kabamb˜

Page 18 Œ Korea Center for D˜sease Control and Prevent˜on
Page 19 Œ WHO/C Black
Page 20 Œ WHO/C Black
Page 26 - WHO/Y Sh˜m˜zu
Page 28 Œ WHO Reg˜onal O˚ce for Afr˜ca

Page 29 Œ WHO/Y Sh˜m˜zu

Page 32 Œ WHO Reg˜onal O˚ce for the Amer˜cas
Page 32 Œ S Hawkey
Page 33 Œ WHO/E V˜llalobos Prats
Page 33 Œ WHO/F Naumann
Page 34 Œ P˜xabay/R Pastryk
Page 38 Œ WHO/Y Sh˜m˜zu
Page 40 Œ Pres˜dency of Uruguay
Page 40 Œ WHO/C Black
Page 41 Œ Bloomberg Ph˜lanthrop˜es
Page 42 Œ Unsplash/C MacNewton
Page 48 Œ WHO/O Assel˜n
Page 56 Œ WHO Mongol˜a 
Page 57 Œ WHO/A Shp˜gunov
Page 58 Œ WHO Reg˜onal O˚ce for the Amer˜cas
Page 62 Œ WHO/G Elham
Page 63 Œ WHO/A Za˜d˜
Page 65 Œ WHO Chad
Page 68 Œ WHO/L C˜pr˜an˜
Page 76 Œ WHO V˜et Nam
Back cover Œ WHO/W Owens
Or˜g˜nal des˜gn: Stud˜o FFFOGAdd˜t˜onal des˜gn and layout: In˜s Commun˜cat˜on
 Table of contents
18024142638624868D˜rector-General™s foreword
Ach˜evements
Budget and ˚nanc˜al h˜ghl˜ghts
 Execut˜ve summary
Health systems

WHO health emergenc˜es programme

Promot˜ng health through the l˜fe course
Noncommun˜cable d˜seases
The global pol˜o erad˜cat˜on ˜n˜t˜at˜ve
Commun˜cable d˜seases
Leadersh˜p and enabl˜ng funct˜ons
  1D˜rector-General™s foreword
D˜rector-General™s foreword
Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus,
 D˜rector-General
Results are the heart of what WHO does. Everything we do 
Œ from developing treatment guidelines and holding expert 

review meetings, to responding to outbreaks and other 

health emergencies Œ is about delivering an impact in the 

lives of the people we
 serve.
Impact is also the essence of the Thirteenth General 

Programme of Work, 2019Œ2023 (GPW 13), with its ﬁtriple 

billionﬂ targets, and of the Sustainable Development Goals 

on which GPW 13 is based. The approval of GPW 13 by 

Member States at the Seventy-first World Health Assembly 

was one of the major achievements of
 2018.
But strategies are one thing Œ results are another. This 

WHO results report for 2018 highlights what WHO is 

achieving, describing how, for
 example:
Ł on universal health coverage
 Œ with support from 
WHO, countries including Egypt, India, Kenya and the 
Philippines made decisive steps towards expanding 
coverage and preventing catastrophic spending on 

health; 
Ł on emergencies
 Œ WHO investigated, and where 
necessary responded to, 481 emergencies and potential 

emergencies in 141 countries, including two outbreaks 

of Ebola virus disease in the Democratic Republic of the 


 Yemen;
Ł on healthier populations
 Œ the Organization raised 
awareness and reinforced measures to reduce tobacco 

use, eliminate artificial 
trans
 fatty acids, address 
antimicrobial resistance and reduce air pollution. 
We can feel proud of these results. But none of them 

are possible without the support of Member States and 

partners. 

who delivered these results. I want to sincerely thank our 
staff who are enormously dedicated and expose themselves 

to personal risk in the conduct of their
 work.
In particular, I want to pay tribute to my brother, Dr Richard 
Mouzoko. He was killed this year in the line of duty while 
delivering results. He is a global health hero and represents 

the best of WHO. I dedicate this Results Report to 
Dr
 Mouzoko and his family Œ and to all our colleagues who 
have died while performing their duties Œ for their
 sacrifice.
Without WHO, the world would be much worse off. And yet, 

this great Organization has still not completed its journey 

towards delivering its full
 potential.
I look forward, therefore, to reporting even better results in 

the years to come as we work together to promote health, 

keep the world safe, and serve the
 vulnerable.
 2Execut˜ve summaryExecut˜ve summary
WHO turned 70 in 2018. Looking back over its history, it 
is clear that the Organization has achieved a lot: smallpox 
had been eradicated; polio is on the brink of eradication; 
the AIDS epidemic is in decline; a breakthrough convention 
on tobacco control has been passed
 Œ just to name a few 
landmark achievements. 
At the same time, WHO must continue to evolve to achieve 
even greater impact. This is why, in May 2018, Member 
States approved a new strategy for WHO
 Œ the Thirteenth 
General Programme of Work, 2019Œ2023
 Œ steering WHO to 
a data-driven, results-oriented, country-focused trajectory. 
GPW
 13 introduced a 
new mission
: promote health, keep 
the world safe, and serve the vulnerable. To bring this to 

reality, bold 
triple billion targets
 were set: 
Ł One billion more people benefiting from universal 

health
 coverage;
Ł One billion more people better protected from health 

emergencies; and 
Ł One billion more people enjoying better health and 

well-being.
Such ambitious targets, which are fully aligned with 

the Sustainable Development Goals, require reshaping 

WHO. The year 2018 was dedicated to reorienting the 

Organization towards this new strategic
 direction.
The targets also require partnerships. In 2018, WHO was 

asked to lead the Secretariat for the 
Global Action Plan 

for Healthy Lives and Well-being for All
, which includes 
the commitment of 12 signatory agencies to accelerate 
progress towards Goal
 3 through enhanced collective action 
at the global and country level. 
The Mid-term Review 2018Œ2019 is a summary of key 
achievements and results in the first year of the biennium. 
Results matter, because they hold WHO accountable
 Œ to 


States; and to donors and partners, who invest in results. 
This report presents areas where WHO had impact and the 
financial resources that were required to achieve them. 
In this Executive Summary
 Œ to anticipate the start of 
GPW
 13 next year
 Œ we organize key results using the triple 
billion targets.
One b˜ll˜on more people bene˚t˜ng 
from un˜versal health coverage 
In October 2018, countries agreed to the 
Declaration 
of Astana in Kazakhstan
. Coming 40 years after the 
historic Alma-Ata Declaration 
on primary health care
, it 
reinvigorated commitment to strengthen primary health 
care, laying a foundation for universal health coverage. 
The universal health coverage acceleration project
 in 
the Western Pacific Region and the adoption of the global 
compact towards universal health coverage (UHC2030) 
in the Eastern Mediterranean Region are evidence of the 
growing political support for universal health coverage. 

At the country level, Greece, India and Kenya are moving 
swiftly on the road to universal health coverage, with 
WHO support.
Normative work highlighted in the report includes the 
prequalification
 of health products. In 2018, almost 
200 products were prequalified, including vaccines for 

inactivated polio, rotavirus and typhoid fever. A new drug, 

moxidectin, was prequalified for river blindness while 
landmark guidelines were issued on HIV related to new 
drugs such as dolutegravir and
 raltegravir.
Other normative work includes the release of the 

International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11),
 whose 
implementation will enable improved tracking of health 

trends, and the new 
Essential Diagnostics List,
 which 
builds on the WHO Essential Medicines List that has long 

guided countries. 
The elimination of some neglected tropical diseases
 Œ such as lymphatic filariasis, trachoma and malaria in 


coordination of shipment, distribution and delivery of 
medicines for mass drug administration in
 countries.

 is also featured in the 
report. In 2018, WHO led at the highest political level in two 
United Nations high-level meetings
 Œ on noncommunicable 
diseases and tuberculosis. Bold new targets were set 

for 2022 at the high-level meeting on tuberculosis. For 

noncommunicable diseases; world leaders agreed that 

efforts should include WHO-recommended legislative and 

regulatory measures on risk factors. 
 3Execut˜ve summaryOne b˜ll˜on more people better 
protected from health emergenc˜es

responding to health needs in humanitarian crises, remains 
central; it is the emergencies pillar of the ﬁtriple billionﬂ 
target ﬁto keep the world safeﬂ. The response arm of work 
on emergencies is now much stronger than previously. 
WHO investigated and where necessary responded to 481 
emergencies and potential emergencies in 141 countries, 
including two outbreaks of Ebola in the Democratic 

cholera
 outbreak in
 Yemen.
WHO helped contain the 
Ebola outbreak
 in the Equateur 
province of Democratic Republic of the Congo and is 

helping to contain the ongoing outbreak in North Kivu, 
setting up base camps, operations centres, treatment units, 
mobile laboratories and surveillance, and providing 60
 000 
doses of a new, experimental vaccine as well as a rapid 
diagnostic test. 
An outbreak of 
Middle East Respiratory Syndrome
 was 
prevented in the Republic of Korea because of preparedness 
efforts of the government with the support of WHO. This 

outcome was very different from the situation just a few 

years
 earlier.
Efforts to eradicate 
wild poliovirus
 are now focused 
in Afghanistan and Pakistan, where challenges include 

a mobile population, and environmental and political 

obstacles. In parallel, a Strategic Action Plan for Polio 

Transition was developed in order to sustain a polio-free 

world. 
The International Health Regulations (2005)
, which 
govern global health security, account for another 



submitted their self-assessment annual reports of the IHR 

implementation status of 2018 and 24 countries conducted 

a joint external evaluation Œ a multisectoral process to 

assess country capabilities to prevent, detect and respond 

rapidly to public health risks. Based on these evaluations, 

47 countries have developed and are implementing their 

national action plans for health security as of
 2018.
One b˜ll˜on more people enjoy˜ng 
better health and well-be˜ng

legislation that promotes healthier populations. Since 

Framework Convention on Tobacco Control
 came 
into force, countries are increasingly using the law for 
sustainable interventions to reduce tobacco use. Today, 



least one comprehensive tobacco control measure. As well, 

59 countries now have laws related to 
sugar-sweetened 
beverages
 while several countries in the Americas fought a 
battle to establish food labelling laws. 
WHO also provided support to the United Nations 
Secretariat at the highest level on antimicrobial resistance, 
raised awareness on air pollution, called for the elimination 
of artificial 
trans
-fatty acids, and scaled up technical 
packages of interventions to tackle noncommunicable 

disease risk factors.
 During 2019, WHO will build on these accomplishments as 

it begins its new general programme of work, which focuses 
even more on impact at the country level. 
 4Health systems 
HEALTH SYSTEMS
 Nat˜onal health 
pol˜c˜es, strateg˜es
 and plansIntegrated 
 people-centred 
 health serv˜ces
Access to 
 med˜c˜nes and other 
health technolog˜es 
and strengthen˜ng 
regulatory 
 capac˜ty
Health systems 
˜nformat˜on and 
ev˜dence
PROGRAMME AREAS
 5Health systems 
Health systems are fundamental not only to good health but 
also to overall development. Making health systems more 

efficient and equitable is a key strategy to fight poverty 



cannot obtain the health services they need because they 

are either inaccessible, unavailable, unaffordable or of poor 

quality. Widening inequities across the world mean that an 

estimated 100 million people are pushed into poverty every 

year when they pay out-of-pocket for health
 services.
There is no single perfect model of a health system since 

context is key, but a well-functioning health system is 

built on having trained and motivated health workers, a 

well-maintained infrastructure and a reliable supply of 

medicines and technologies, backed by adequate public 

funding, a coherent incentive environment, strong health 

plans and evidence-based
 policies.
Key ach˜evements
Rea˛rm˜ng health for all


history. Exactly 70 years after the Organization was 

founded and 40 years after the 
Declaration of Alma-Ata 
on ﬁHealth for All
ﬂ, WHO is moving closer to realizing a 
long-held vision of health as a right and not a privilege. 

That vision is also being championed by WHO Director-
General Dr
 Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, who has made 
universal health coverage a top priority. 
Stepp˜ng up un˜versal health coverage
In October 2018, countries convened in Astana, Kazakhstan, 

and renewed their commitment to primary health 

care as a step to achieving universal health coverage. 

The Declaration of Astana
 Œ adopted at the 
Global 
Conference on Primary Health Care
 Œ reaffirms the 
historic 1978 
Declaration of Alma-Ata
. The Declaration of Astana comes amid a growing global 

movement towards greater investment in primary health 

care as a means to achieve universal health coverage. 
Outcomes we are a˜m˜ng to ach˜eve 
˜n 2018-2019Ł All countr˜es have comprehens˜ve nat˜onal 
health pol˜c˜es, strateg˜es and plans a˜med at 
mov˜ng towards un˜versal health coverage
Ł Pol˜c˜es, ˛nanc˜ng and human resources 
are ˜n place to ˜ncrease access to ˜ntegrated, 
people centred health serv˜ces
Ł Improved access to and rat˜onal use of safe, 
e˚cac˜ous and a˝ordable qual˜ty med˜c˜nes 

and other health technolog˜es
Ł All countr˜es have well-funct˜on˜ng health 

˜nformat˜on, eHealth, research, eth˜cs and 

knowledge management systems to support 
nat˜onal health pr˜or˜t˜es
To address the b˜g challenges of the future, we need to 
support countr˜es to develop health systems wh˜ch more 
comprehens˜vely address grow˜ng health threats such as 

noncommun˜cable d˜sease Œ espec˜ally where populat˜ons 

are age˜ng. To ach˜eve th˜s, we need progress towards 

un˜versal health coverage, ˜nclud˜ng stronger pr˜mary health 

care serv˜ces Œ that ˜s how we w˜ll del˜ver health for all.
Dr Takesh˜ Kasa˜
WHO Reg˜onal D˜rector for the Western Pac˜˛c 
 6Health systems 
Highlights of significant progress towards universal health 
coverage
 include:Ł In the African Region, the Regional Office helped 

countries to mobilize domestic resources and transition 

from being supported by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, 

to being fully self-financing. Angola and the Congo, 

with WHO technical support, increased their domestic 

funding for health and are now fully self-financing. 
Ł In the Region of the Americas, 15 countries made 

significant progress in expanding access to health care 

and increasing the quality of care. 
Ł In the Eastern Mediterranean Region, universal health 

coverage has received high-level political support since 

the adoption of the 
global compact for progress 
towards universal health coverage 
(UHC2030)
 at a 
ministerial meeting held in Salalah, Oman, in September 

2018. Countries were invited to sign the compact as a 

sign of solidarity and
 commitment.
Ł The Regional Office for Europe provided country-

specific analyses with actionable evidence for pro-poor 

policies to Estonia and Lithuania, which acted upon 

the recommendations. Both countries introduced new 

policies to provide better protection for vulnerable 

population groups.
Ł The South-East Asia Region welcomed the launch by 

the Government of India of 
Ayushman Bharat.
 With its 
twin pillars of health protection and 150 000 health and 

wellness centres, the system will significantly advance 

universal health coverage for hundreds of millions of 

people. Similarly, Indonesia has extended such health 

coverage to 78% of its
 population.Ł In the Western Pacific Region, the 
universal health 
coverage acceleration project,
 funded by Japan, 
supported Member States in moving towards universal 
health coverage. In Viet
 Nam, an innovative approach 
was adopted that aimed to improve primary care at the 

local level, thereby offering lessons for a wider, national 

scaling up. 
(L-R) Dr Andrea Xanthos, Greek M˜n˜ster of Health; 
Dr˙Zsuzsanna Jakab, then WHO Reg˜onal D˜rector for 
Europe; Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO D˜rector-
General, at the ˜naugurat˜on of the new WHO Country 
O˚ce ˜n Greece ˜n June 2018.Roll˜ng out pr˜mary health 
care un˜ts ˜n Greece
December 2018 marked the ˛rst ann˜versary of 
the Top˜kes Monades Yg˜as 
(TOMYs) or local health 
un˜ts ˜n Thessalon˜k˜, Greece, wh˜ch are part of a 

newly-des˜gned pr˜mary health care system. 
TOMYs
 coord˜nate care ˜n the area. They are 
sta˝ed w˜th mult˜d˜sc˜pl˜nary teams of general 

pract˜t˜oners, ˜ntern˜sts, paed˜atr˜c˜ans, nurses, 

health v˜s˜tors and soc˜al workers. 
By end-2018, 113 TOMYs are ˜n operat˜on 
throughout Greece, bene˛t˜ng 300 000 people, 

and more un˜ts are planned. One ˜n three TOMYs 

prov˜de extended serv˜ce hours, from 7:00 to 

22:00. They prov˜de cont˜nuous health care and 

the˜r act˜v˜t˜es ˜nclude d˜sease prevent˜on, health 

promot˜on, d˜agnos˜s, treatment, mon˜tor˜ng and 

care. They also have referral mechan˜sms ˜n 

place, wh˜ch w˜ll be further ˜mproved ˜n 2019 w˜th 

WHO ass˜stance. The Greek health system was deeply a˝ected by 
the ˛nanc˜al cr˜s˜s, wh˜ch revealed long-term 

problems ˜n the prov˜s˜on of care. The TOMYs 

mark a major step forward from the prev˜ously 

fragmented network of publ˜c and pr˜vate health 

prov˜ders, wh˜ch were pr˜mar˜ly spec˜al˜sts. 
The Reg˜onal O˚ce for Europe has worked closely w˜th the M˜n˜stry of Health of Greece 

˜n mon˜tor˜ng the roll-out of TOMYs, ensur˜ng 

susta˜nab˜l˜ty and ˜mprov˜ng the qual˜ty of 

serv˜ces. Techn˜cal ass˜stance, funded by the 

European Un˜on and Japan, helped to: 
Ł develop and ma˜nta˜n a reg˜stry of TOMYs, 

˜nclud˜ng deta˜ls on access, sta˚ng, equ˜pment;
Ł ˜mplement a nat˜onw˜de campa˜gn to promote 

the new serv˜ces;Ł conduct a user sat˜sfact˜on survey;
Ł develop a human resources strategy to ensure 

the long-term supply of qual˜˛ed fam˜ly doctors.
M˜n˜ster of Health Andreas Xanthos has sa˜d 

that the TOMYs a˜med ﬁto sh˜ft the focus from 

treatment to prevent˜onﬂ and that they were a 

response to ﬁsoc˜etal demand for the el˜m˜nat˜on 
of health ˜nequal˜t˜esﬂ. 
WHO D˜rector-General Dr Tedros Adhanom 
Ghebreyesus has commended the system 

for ﬁensur˜ng that all res˜dents of Greece can 

access the health serv˜ces they need, when and 

where they need them, w˜thout fac˜ng ˛nanc˜al 

hardsh˜p.ﬂ
 7Health systems 
Progress made ˜n the Afr˜can Reg˜on w˜th support 
from WHO ˜ncludes:
The West Afr˜can Econom˜c and Monetary Un˜on 
adopted the ˛rst 
sub-reg˜onal health workforce 

˜nvestment act˜on plan
, address˜ng barr˜ers to 

workforce development. 
Burk˜na Faso deployed opt˜m˜zed strateg˜es 
to ˜mprove retent˜on of health workers ˜n 

underserved areas. 
Gu˜nea developed a rural p˜pel˜ne programme 
to accelerate tra˜n˜ng, recru˜tment, deployment 

and retent˜on of health workers ˜n rural areas, 

and spec˜˛cally to recru˜t 3000 commun˜ty health 

prov˜ders by 2022.
Improv˜ng qual˜ty of serv˜ces 
A new universal health coverage portal,
 providing the latest 
data on health services globally, is helping track progress 
towards universal health coverage, revealing areas that 

need attention. Poor quality of health services are a factor 

impeding improvements in public health. Inaccurate 

diagnosis, medication errors, unnecessary treatment, 

inadequate or unsafe clinical facilities or practices, or 

providers lacking training and expertise were among the 
problems. The situation was worst in low- and middle-

income countries where 10 % of hospitalized patients 

contract infections during their
 stay.
The Regional Office for the Americas has supported work 

on the development of integrated health networks as 

part of the implementation of road maps for universal 

health coverage in several countries. In the Region of 

the Americas, 15 countries made significant progress in 

expanding access to health care and the quality of the care. 

In Bolivia, a new model of care was developed through the 

Mi Salud
 programme, which articulates the first level of 

care with specialised care. Guatemala also initiated a pilot 

project for a new model of care while Panama is developing 

health networks. 
Boost˜ng the health workforce 
The Working for Health Multi-Partner Trust Fund (MPTF)
was launched in May 2018, during the Seventy-first World 
Health Assembly, to pool resources and support countries 
to invest in the health and social service workforce required 
to achieve universal health coverage and the Sustainable 
Development Goals. WHO, and its partners ILO and OECD, 
plan to raise US$
 70 million over five
 years. The funds will 
be used jointly to deliver innovative partnerships and new 

knowledge and to finance investment in transformative 

education, skills and job creation in the global health 

care
 workforce.


education and training on antimicrobial resistance, 

launched in 2018, provides foundational normative 

guidance to help ensure that 
health workers have the 
requisite competencies to address antimicrobial 

resistance
. The framework is being used as a prerequisite 
for grant requests by Tropical Health Education Trust 

(THET) Commonwealth Partnerships for Antimicrobial 

Stewardship projects in four African countries: Ghana, 

Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania and Zambia. The 

projects aims to strengthen the capacity of the national 

health workforce and institutions to address antimicrobial 

resistance challenges in those countries. 
The National Health Workforce Accounts (NHWA)
 data 
platform
 is improving the availability, quality and use of 
data on the health workforce. The platform has received 
data from over 25 countries. To help implement the 

platform, WHO initiated capacity-building efforts in 79 

countries, of which 52 were low-income and lower-middle-

income countries. 
The data reported ˜n Nat˜onal 
Health Workforce Accounts ˜nd˜cate 
an ˜ncrease of about 
10% ˜n the global stock of health workers 
s˜nce 2013.
Mak˜ng ˜t happen ˜n 
countr˜esThrough the support prov˜ded by ˜ts Un˜versal 
Health Coverage Partnersh˜p, WHO ˜s now 

prov˜d˜ng ˜n-country pol˜cy and plann˜ng 

techn˜cal ass˜stance to more than 60 Member 

States, wh˜le at the global level the Organ˜zat˜on 

˜s br˜ng˜ng together Gav˜, the Vacc˜ne All˜ance, 

and the Global Fund to F˜ght AIDS, Tuberculos˜s 

and Malar˜a (GFATM) to al˜gn support for the 

strengthen˜ng of health systems and harmon˜z˜ng 

of the mon˜tor˜ng of nat˜onal systems and 

un˜versal health coverage pr˜or˜t˜es ˜n countr˜es.
 8Health systems 
Improv˜ng access to med˜c˜nes 
Lack of access to medicines is one of the most complex 
obstacles to better health. WHO has worked constantly to 

improve access to medicines throughout its history. The 

prequalification programme is now firmly established as a 

mechanism to improve access. Prequalification provides a 

critical stamp of approval that medicines are safe, effective 

and of high
 quality.
Recently prequalified products include the HIV antiretro
-viral dolutegravir, rectal artesunates for malaria and the 

first two HIV self-tests. Dolutegravir has many advantages, 

among them the potential to drive down the cost of 

antiretroviral therapies significantly. Rectal artesunates 

can be administered early to patients who are far from 

health facilities, thereby reducing the risk of death and 

disability from malaria. The new HIV self-testing kits will 

greatly increase the number of people who know their HIV 

status by avoiding the stigma of their having to attend a 

test
 centre.
 The 10 vaccines that passed prequalification
 include:Ł ShanIPVŽ inactivated polio vaccine. This 

prequalification is important because the current 

inactivated polio vaccine market is fragile, with 

insufficient short-term supply for all countries to have 

access to at least one full dose of vaccine for use in 

routine immunization programmes. 
Ł Rotasil oral rotavirus vaccine. Rotasil is the first heat-

stable Rotavirus vaccine, which makes it suitable for 
Un˜ted Republ˜c of Tanzan˜a ach˜eves 
m˜lestone ˜n drug regulat˜on
The United Republic of Tanzania is the first confirmed 
country in Africa to have achieved a well-functioning 

regulatory system for medical products. The Tanzania 
Food and Drug Authority (TFDA) has made considerable 
improvements in recent years to ensure the safety and 
efficacy of medicines in the health care system. 

the Global Benchmarking Tool Œ an evaluation tool that 

checks regulatory functions against a set of more than 

200 indicators, including product authorization, market 

surveillance and the detection of potential adverse effects. 
The benchmarking of the Tanzanian regulatory authorities 
was carried out in phases by a WHO-led team of 

international experts. Earlier in 2018, WHO facilitated 

self-assessments and conducted a formal evaluation 

of the Tanzanian Food and Drug Authority as well as 

its counterpart in Zanzibar, requesting the regulatory 

authorities to make various adjustments. In the last 

assessment, the Tanzanian Authority met all indicators that 

define a maturity level 3 agency, the second highest on 


 scale.


authorities are considered to have the capacity to perform 

their functions well. For that reason, WHO and African 

governments have intensified efforts to bolster the capacity 


 bodies.
Progressive implementation -
outcomes by 2030
Starting point:
Ł A fragmented health system with an underserved population
Ł Out-of-pocket payments accounting for more than half of all health expenditure

Ł A long process of reforms and rising health expenditure
Secured support
 from 
local governments which 

is crucial for 
implementationAdopted the Universal 

Health Care Act
* Reduction of out 
of pocket expen-

diture
Networks of facilities
with local government 

and provinces at the 

centre of health care 

delivery management
Improved 
access to 

primary health care
Universal
 
membershipWhat the Government did
What the Philippines is moving towards
What WHO didRallying the public to 
support the Department of 
Health and PhilHealth as they draft implementing 
rulesProvided neutral 
advice based on evidence
Provided expert 
support
Provided 
best examples from 
other WHO Member 
StatesAnswered
 public™s/
stakeholders™ 
critical questions
*Republic Act no. 11223Advancing universal health coverage 
in the Philippines Universality means ALL FilipinosEnvisioned impact:
Commitment to universal health coverage 9Health systems 
In 2018, almost 
200 products
 were 
prequal˜˚ed, ˜nclud˜ng 55 products 
for vector control and 48 ˚n˜shed 
pharmaceut˜cal products.
use in low-income countries, where weak infrastructure 
and frequent lack of electricity make refrigeration 
difficult. Rotavirus causes about 37% of the deaths 

from diarrhoea among children younger than 5 years of 

age
 worldwide.
Ł Typbar-TCV® is the first conjugate vaccine to prevent 

typhoid fever. This vaccine yields long-lasting immunity, 

requires only one dose and can be given to children as 
young as 6 months, while other typhoid vaccines are 
only recommended for children over 2 years. Use of 
the vaccine should curb the frequent use of antibiotics 

for presumed typhoid fever, thus slowing antibiotic 

resistance in 
Salmonella
 typhi.
In a new pilot initiative, the United States Food and Drug 

Administration (FDA) will provide the WHO prequalification 

of medicines programme with reviews of HIV drug 

applications to expedite assessments, making life-saving 

drugs more quickly available to patients in developing 

countries. 
Work to improve the affordability of medicines in countries 
has involved monitoring and sharing information on drug 

pricing at the regional level. 
The South-East Asia Regulatory Network, which includes 
sharing information on medical product pricing among its 

activities, launched a live product pricing platform last 

October. 
Data collected from 45 countries in the European 

Region form the basis of a new WHO report 
Medicines 
reimbursement policies in Europe,
 which examines 
policies that increase access to affordable
 medicines.
The Region of the Americas launched an initiative, together 

with 15 institutions from nine countries in the Region, to 

promote the exchange of information on prices, coverage 
and regulation. The African Regional Office developed 
the APRAMED platform to regularly monitor medicine 

prices. The platform is already being used by the Congo 

and Nigeria.
To ensure new treatments are safe, beneficial and used 

responsibly, they must be monitored after they are on the 

market through pharmacovigilance. To commemorate the 

fiftieth anniversary of its pharmacovigilance activities, 

in November 2018, WHO launched a toolkit comprising 

checklists and guidance to countries on how to set up a 

drug safety monitoring
 system.
Progressive implementation -
outcomes by 2030
Starting point:
Ł A fragmented health system with an underserved population
Ł Out-of-pocket payments accounting for more than half of all health expenditure

Ł A long process of reforms and rising health expenditure
Secured support
 from 
local governments which 

is crucial for 
implementationAdopted the Universal 

Health Care Act
* Reduction of out 
of pocket expen-

diture
Networks of facilities
with local government 

and provinces at the 

centre of health care 

delivery management
Improved 
access to 

primary health care
Universal
 
membershipWhat the Government did
What the Philippines is moving towards
What WHO didRallying the public to 
support the Department of 
Health and PhilHealth as they draft implementing 
rulesProvided neutral 
advice based on evidence
Provided expert 
support
Provided 
best examples from 
other WHO Member 
StatesAnswered
 public™s/
stakeholders™ 
critical questions
*Republic Act no. 11223Advancing universal health coverage 
in the Philippines Universality means ALL FilipinosEnvisioned impact:
Commitment to universal health coverage 10Health systems 
Ach˜evements ˜n health ˚nanc˜ng 
Robust financing systems are critical for universal health 
coverage. When people pay most of the cost for health 
services out of their own pockets and public financing is 
low, many suffer financial hardship in the event of a severe 
or long-term illness. The poor may often be unable to obtain 
services they
 need.Addressing fragmentation in financing arrangements 


not just to improve financial protection but also to build 

efficiency and equity in resource use. WHO plays a critical 

role in supporting health financing policy in countries. 
WHO has released the annual update of the 
Global Health 
Expenditure Database (GHED)
. This latest release contains 
annual data for all Members States from 2000 to 2016. 

The data release was accompanied by the publication of 
the report 
Public Spending on Health: A Closer Look 

at Global Trends
, which synthesizes broad patterns and 
trends in global health spending, identifying key policy 

issues. This report is useful in providing further evidence 

of the importance of the health sector within national 

economies and in advocating for increased government 

spending so as to reduce out-of-pocket expenditure. 
One example of successful action can be found in Mali. 
Following an evaluation of the current human resources 

for health plan, through the joint efforts of the Ministry of 

Health, WHO and other partners, additional domestic funds 

were mobilized, making possible the recruitment of several 

hundred new health sector workers in 2017 and
 2018.
Some of the key ˚nd˜ngs ˜n the report:
Ł Global health spend˜ng ˜s ˜ncreas˜ng but 
people are st˜ll spend˜ng too much out-of-
pocket for health care.
Ł Publ˜c health spend˜ng ˜s generally 
˜ncreas˜ng, but not ˜n low-˜ncome countr˜es.
Ł More than half of health spend˜ng ˜s on 
pr˜mary health care ˜n low- and m˜ddle-

˜ncome countr˜es, but less than 40% of that 
spend˜ng ˜s from domest˜c publ˜c resources.
Scal˜ng up susta˜nable 
un˜versal health coverage 
˜n Kenya 
In 2017, Pres˜dent Uhuru Kenyatta pr˜or˜t˜zed 
ach˜evement of un˜versal health coverage by 2022 

as one of Kenya™s top four development agenda 

˜tems. WHO has prov˜ded extens˜ve support to the 

country ˜n th˜s regard, ˜nclud˜ng rev˜ew˜ng pol˜cy 

on susta˜nable health ˛nanc˜ng. 
In March 2018, follow˜ng a meet˜ng between 
Pres˜dent Kenyatta and WHO D˜rector-General, Dr 

Tedros, WHO organ˜zed a h˜gh-level m˜ss˜on on 

health ˛nanc˜ng for un˜versal health coverage, 

w˜th the M˜n˜ster of Health, the Internat˜onal 

Monetary Fund (IMF) ˛scal a˝a˜rs d˜rector, sen˜or 

government o˚c˜als and key stakeholders. 
WHO recommended an ˜n˜t˜al modest health 
bene˛t package address˜ng the populat˜on™s 

cr˜t˜cal needs, w˜th clear pathways for future 

expans˜on and c˜t˜zen engagement. Other 

recommendat˜ons ˜ncluded strong ˜ncent˜ves 
for sub-nat˜onal governments to ˜nvest ˜n bas˜c 

serv˜ces and health enablers (better nutr˜t˜on 

as well as safe water and san˜tat˜on serv˜ces), 

˜nclud˜ng pr˜mary health care. 
The most v˜able ˜ncome source was general 
tax revenues for an essent˜al serv˜ce package 

w˜th non-contr˜butory ent˜tlement. The h˜gh-

level m˜ss˜on recommended restructur˜ng the 
Nat˜onal Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) to ˜mprove 

˜ts e˚c˜ency and cons˜der˜ng other ˛nanc˜ng 
modal˜t˜es such as taxes on tobacco, added sugar 

and petroleum.Follow˜ng the WHO h˜gh-level m˜ss˜on, the 
Government has created a Health Bene˛ts 

Adv˜sory Panel to rev˜ew the bene˛ts package. 

Reforms are also under way to turn the NHIF ˜nto 

a key strateg˜c purchaser for un˜versal health 

coverage. 
WHO has also supported development of a un˜versal health coverage road map, w˜th key 

m˜lestones for health ˛nanc˜ng to meet the 

Pres˜dent™s health development agenda. 
Pres˜dent Kenyatta has sa˜d the path to un˜versal 
health coverage (UHC) ˜s ongo˜ng. ﬁWe v˜ew UHC 

not as a dest˜nat˜on but as a cont˜nuous process 
wh˜ch w˜ll ˜nvolve constant w˜den˜ng of the soc˜al 

safety nets to ensure that no one ˜s left beh˜nd.ﬂ Dr Tedros has descr˜bed Kenya as a ﬁtra˜lblazerﬂ 
for ˜ts dr˜ve towards un˜versal health coverage, 

wh˜ch could leave beh˜nd a ﬁr˜pple e˝ectﬂ across 

the Reg˜on.  11Health systems 
Enhanc˜ng data
In June 2018, the 
International Statistical Classification 
of Diseases and Related Health Problems Œ Eleventh 
Revision (ICD-11) 
was released. The Secretariat has 
produced a set of tools to help Member States in the 

implementation of ICD-11 by simplifying access to, and use 
of, the classification by end-users. To date, 70 countries 
from all six WHO regions have been trained in hands-on use 

and implementation of this global standard for diagnostic 

health information. 
The Global Reference List of 100 Core Health Indicators
 is also an important tool. It comprises a standard set of 
core indicators prioritized by the global community to 

provide information on the health situation and trends. The 

2018 list of indicators contains modifications to reflect the 

Sustainable Development Goals, including universal health 

coverage. 
World health statistics 2018,


progress made towards the Sustainable Development 

Goals in some areas and shines light on other areas where 

progress has stalled. 
Move for more transparency ˜n research
In December 2018, WHO released the 
International 
Standards for Clinical Trial Registries
, version 3.0, for 
the International Clinical Trials Registry Platform
 to 
ensure that a complete overview of research is accessible 

to all those involved in health care decision-making. This 

will strengthen the transparency, validity and value of the 

scientific evidence base. 
Previously, WHO had coordinated a consensus among 


and funding international non-governmental organizations, 

requiring that all clinical trials they funded or supported 

should be registered and the results disclosed publicly. 
Currently, about 50% of clinical trials go unreported, often 
because the results are negative. These unreported trial 

results leave an incomplete and potentially misleading 

picture of the risks and benefits of vaccines, drugs and 

medical devices and can lead to the use of suboptimal or 

even harmful products. 
In the Western Pacific Region, technical support was 
provided to Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Tonga and 
Vanuatu on health research ethics and the regional health 
ethics review committee reviewed 13 health research 

proposals during
 2018.
Improv˜ng health 
˜nformat˜on systems ˜n 
countr˜esŁ In the Afr˜can Reg˜on, the Health Informat˜on 
Systems (HIS) status was assessed ˜n all 47 

countr˜es, w˜th the ˜nformat˜on on 45 countr˜es 

val˜dated ˜n November 2018. Informat˜on 

system gaps were mapped ˜n the 10 ˆagsh˜p 

countr˜es for un˜versal health coverage and 

spec˜˛c support prov˜ded ˜n Nam˜b˜a for 

rev˜ew of the system for C˜v˜l Reg˜strat˜on and 

V˜tal Stat˜st˜cs. HIS strategy assessment and 

development were performed ˜n Burund˜ and 
the Congo, ˜nclud˜ng al˜gnment of partners 

around pr˜or˜t˜es for health ˜nformat˜on 

systems. 
Ł In the European Reg˜on, country m˜ss˜ons 

were conducted to enhance nat˜onal health 

˜nformat˜on, eHealth and research systems, 

establ˜sh country teams for WHO™s Ev˜dence-
Informed Pol˜cy Network EVIPNet, support 
˜nd˜cator development at the country level, 

develop country pro˛les w˜th MOH, commence 

roll-out for ICD-11 and tra˜n sta˝ ˜n countr˜es. 
Ł In the South-East As˜a Reg˜on, the SCORE 

(Survey,˙Count,˙Opt˜m˜ze, Rev˜ew,˙Enable)˙for 

rev˜ews of health ˜nformat˜on systems™ 

performance ˜n respect of health goals were 

completed ˜n 10 countr˜es. Ł In the Western Pac˜˛c Reg˜on , after the 

Susta˜nable Development Goals/Un˜versal 

health coverage basel˜ne report ˜n 2017, ﬁSDG/

UHCﬂ country pro˛les were developed for all 

countr˜es ˜n the reg˜on. A few countr˜es started 
to apply s˜m˜lar approaches to develop country 

SDG/UHC and health system development 

mon˜tor˜ng tools.  12Health systems 
Key ˚gures for 2018Œ2019
Budget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by programme (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
200608014016018020040120100Nat˜onal health pol˜c˜es, 
strateg˜es and plans 
Integrated people-centred 
health serv˜ces 
Access to med˜c˜nes and 
other health technolog˜es, 

and strengthen˜ng regulatory capac˜ty 
Health systems 
Informat˜on and ev˜denceHeadquarters
249 2401233589565358503941424215143156168123132129136985964764918162216751242Amer˜cas
Europe
South-East As˜aEastern Med˜terranean
Afr˜ca
Western Pac˜˚c
Health Assembly-approved budget
Funds ava˜lable (as at 31 December 2018)
Expend˜tureBudget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by major o˚ce (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
Approved Programme budget: US$ 590 million
Funds available: US$ 495 million (84% of Programme
 budget)
Expenditure: US$ 248 million (42% of Programme budget, 50% of available
 resources)
Budget and ˜mplementat˜on
The Health systems category was well resourced in 2018, 
with a level of 84% of the approved budget funded, 30% of 

that from flexible funding. With staff expenditures making 

up 58% of the total expenditure level, this could potentially 
present a concern regarding sustainability if the flexibility 

of specified funding is not
 maintained.
Almost half of all available resources and expenditure (48% 

and 50%, respectively) was at the headquarters level. 
  13Health systems 
This is partly due to the significant extent of normative 
work and specialized expertise needed. Available resource 

levels and expenditure levels, relative to the approved 

budget levels, remain a concern in both the Region of the 

Americas (46% and 34%, respectively) and the Eastern 

Mediterranean Region (70% and 27%, respectively). 

Significant support was provided from headquarters to 

strengthen health systems at the country level in different 

areas, including building resilient systems, access to 

medicines and other health technologies and health 
financing, especially in the context of reaching universal 

health coverage. 
Both funding and expenditure rates were consistent across 
programme
 areas.
For further details on the Programme Budget funding and 

implementation for this category, please refer to the WHO 

Programme Budget Portal (
http://open.who.int/2018-19/
our-work/category/04/about/key-figures
 and http://open.
who.int/2018-19
).Expend˜ture: sta˝ vs. act˜v˜ty
Expend˜ture by level
49%30%21%Countryo˜cesReg˚onal 
o˜cesHeadquarters
42%58%Act˚v˚ty
Top 10 voluntary contr˜butors (spec˜˛ed)
Funding
 source:
Flexible funding: 30%


Of the total voluntary contributions specified, 
63% were from 10 contributors (shown
 beside)
8%7%7%6%6%5%4%4%3%B˜ll & Mel˜nda 
Gates Foundat˜onUNITAID - 
Internat˜onal Drug Purchase Fac˜l˜ty
Republ˜c  of KoreaUn˜ted States of Amer˜ca
European Comm˜ss˜onUn˜ted K˜ngdom of Great Br˜ta˜n and Northern IrelandGAVI, the 
Vacc˜ne 
All˜ance
CanadaGermanyJapan13%Sta˛ 14WHO health emergenc˜es programme
WHO 
HEALTH 
EMERGENCIES 
PROGRAMME
PROGRAMME AREAS
Infect˜ous hazard 
management 
Country health 
emergency 
preparedness and 
 the Internat˜onal 
Health Regulat˜ons 
(2005) Health emergency 
˜nformat˜on and 
 r˜sk assessment 
Emergency 
core serv˜ces
Emergency 
 operat˜ons
 15WHO health emergenc˜es programme
Every day, emergencies of all kinds occur Œ conflicts, 
natural disasters, disease outbreaks Œ which can cause 

lasting damage to health systems and communities and 

even have global impact. Significant gaps remain in the 

capacity of many countries to manage these emergencies 

because of health systems that are ill-prepared and 

inadequately resourced. It is in these settings that the 

highest rates of maternal and child mortality occur, 

and where malnutrition, mental disorders and disease 

outbreaks are common. 
The WHO Health Emergencies Programme works with 
countries and partners to prepare for, prevent, respond to, 

and manage recovery from all hazards that create health 

emergencies. WHO has a critical leadership role in ensuring 

a swift international response, and in recent years has also 

assumed an operational role. 

of people worldwide, nearly 70 million, have been forcibly 
displaced and lack access to basic services. Climate 

change and expanding populations present new crises, 

such as changing patterns of disease transmission and 
weather-related disasters. Despite the growing challenges, 
significant progress has been made such that WHO is in 
a better place than ever to serve the most vulnerable and 

promote health. 
Key ach˜evements
WHO continued to help Member States to better 
prepare, 
prevent, detect and respond
 to the multitude of health 
risks. This entailed bringing together partners, providing 

guidance, support and expertise, and conducting 

operational and logistical
 missions.
Mount˜ng a successful response
WHO supports countries Œ particularly those with 

minimal health capacities Œ so that they are ready to 

respond to high priority risks. Strengthening operational 

readiness helps health systems handle the initial impact 

of emergencies, as well as subsequent recovery. When a 

disaster occurs, the more rapid the response, the better the 

outcome. 
Outcomes we are a˜m˜ng to ach˜eve 
 ˜n 2018-2019Ł All countr˜es are equ˜pped to m˜t˜gate r˜sks 
from h˜gh-threat ˜nfect˜ous hazards
Ł All countr˜es assess and address 

cr˜t˜cal gaps ˜n preparedness for health 
emergenc˜es, ˜nclud˜ng ˜n core capac˜t˜es 
under the Internat˜onal Health Regulat˜ons 

(2005) and ˜n capac˜t˜es for all-hazard health 
emergency r˜sk management
Ł Health events are detected and r˜sks are 
assessed and commun˜cated for appropr˜ate 

act˜onŁ Populat˜ons a˝ected by health emergenc˜es 

have access to essent˜al l˜fe-sav˜ng health 

serv˜ces and publ˜c health ˜ntervent˜ons
Ł Nat˜onal emergency programmes are 

supported by a well-resourced and e˚c˜ent 
WHO Health Emergenc˜es Programme
It ˜s absolutely v˜tal that we are prepared for any potent˜al case 
of Ebola spread˜ng beyond the Democrat˜c Republ˜c of the Congo. 
WHO ˜s ˜nvest˜ng a huge amount of resources ˜nto prevent˜ng 

Ebola from spread˜ng outs˜de the Democrat˜c Republ˜c of the 

Congo and help˜ng governments ramp up the˜r read˜ness to 

respond should any country have a pos˜t˜ve case of Ebola.
Dr Matsh˜d˜so Moet˜WHO Reg˜onal D˜rector for Afr˜ca
 16WHO health emergenc˜es programme
In 2018, WHO implemented activities for operational 
readiness in over 60 countries across all six WHO regions, 
including in respect of training packages, public health risk 
profiles, and early warning and high-risk hazards planning. 
WHO coordinated and provided technical support for 
operational readiness functions for outbreaks of Ebola virus 
disease in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and for 
the cholera outbreak in Zimbabwe.  
For the Ebola outbreak, WHO helped neighbouring countries 
to: improve border surveillance and contact tracing; train 

vaccination teams; and implement infection prevention 

and control. Another example of readiness work is the WHO 

Emergency Medical Teams initiative, which helps countries 

to build stronger health systems by enhancing national 

emergency medical teams and operations centres. It is 

supporting 35 countries in this area, with WHO-trained 

expert mentors helping them to create and strengthen 

national emergency medical
 teams.
WHO launched national rapid response team
 training in 
2014 in response to an Ebola virus disease epidemic. It has 

since become an integral part of health security learning. 

In 2018, training for rapid response teams in support of the 

Ebola virus disease response was organized in six African 

countries. 
Respond˜ng to the Ebola 
outbreak
When an outbreak of Ebola v˜rus d˜sease was 
declared ˜n the Democrat˜c Republ˜c of the Congo 

˜n May 2018, a mult˜d˜sc˜pl˜nary team compr˜s˜ng 

experts from WHO, Médec˜ns Sans Front˜ères and 

prov˜nc˜al health o˚c˜als ˜mmed˜ately travelled 

to the hotspot, B˜koro Œ a town w˜th l˜m˜ted 

health fac˜l˜t˜es. WHO promptly set up an ˜nc˜dent 

management system w˜th ded˜cated sta˝ and 

resources. 
S˜nce May 2018, WHO has prov˜ded operat˜onal 
support to the Ebola v˜rus d˜sease response ˜n 
the Democrat˜c Republ˜c of the Congo. It has set 

up base camps for over 160 frontl˜ne responders, 

who have also rece˜ved tra˜n˜ng; bu˜lt o˚ce 

˜nfrastructure for more than 400 sta˝; establ˜shed 

an emergency operat˜ons centre; and deployed 

personal protect˜ve equ˜pment. 
Treatment centres were set up equ˜pped w˜th mob˜le laborator˜es and new rap˜d d˜agnost˜c 

tools. Cl˜n˜c˜ans were deployed through the WHO 

Emerg˜ng D˜seases Cl˜n˜cal Assessment and 

Response Network (EDCARN), a WHO-coord˜nated 

network of experts ˜n emerg˜ng d˜seases.
By the end of 2018, almost 60 000 people had 
been vacc˜nated w˜th a new exper˜mental 

vacc˜ne. The log˜st˜cs of del˜ver˜ng the vacc˜ne 

were espec˜ally compl˜cated because ˜t requ˜res 

spec˜al˜zed log˜st˜cs to ma˜nta˜n ˜t at m˜nus 80 
degrees. Commun˜ty engagement teams helped 
address concerns and control outbreaks by 

ra˜s˜ng awareness of r˜sk factors and protect˜ve 

measures, such as vacc˜nat˜on and safe bur˜al. 
Th˜s was a far cry from the response to the 
2014 outbreak ˜n West Afr˜ca. Then, there was 

no vacc˜ne, l˜m˜ted d˜agnost˜c serv˜ces and few 

tra˜ned responders. Health workers were ˜n 

short supply, wh˜le both surve˜llance and rap˜d 

response systems were ˜nadequate. Laborator˜es 

were mostly located ˜n c˜t˜es and commun˜ty 

engagement was l˜m˜ted. The ep˜dem˜c exploded 

˜nto the most severe Ebola v˜rus d˜sease 
outbreak ever, w˜th repeated ˆare-ups and 

new transm˜ss˜on cha˜ns, result˜ng ˜n 29 000 

con˛rmed or probable cases and 11 000 deaths 

over two years. The ep˜dem˜c was a wake-up call, 

prov˜d˜ng key lessons ˜n outbreak response. 
Instead of the terror and chaos of 2014, ˜n 
2018 the response was coord˜nated, planned 

and ˛nanced. The ˜n˜t˜al outbreak ˜n Equateur 

prov˜nce was conta˜ned w˜th˜n three months. A 

subsequent outbreak ˜n K˜vu prov˜nce ˜s ongo˜ng, 

w˜th operat˜ons hampered by challeng˜ng 

cond˜t˜ons and secur˜ty ˜ssues. Nevertheless, the 

number of cases Œ more than 900, w˜th 600 deaths 

Œ ˜s far smaller than ˜n 2014. Hundreds, poss˜bly 

thousands, of cases have been averted. 
Strengthen˜ng a global network for 
rap˜d response to health emergenc˜es 
WHO relies on its global network of more than 1644 
technical and operational partners when responding to 

health emergencies. Key networks of partners
 include:Ł Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network 

(GOARN)
 Œ a technical network of over 2O0 
multidisciplinary experts ready for deployment anywhere 

in the world when an outbreak
 strikes.
Ł Global Health Cluster 
Œ involves over 700 partners 
in 27 countries working to meet the health needs of 75 

million people worldwide, with WHO as its
 Secretariat.
Ł Emergency Medical Teams Initiative 
Œ helps
 organizations and countries build capacity and 

strengthen health systems by coordinating the 

deployment of medical teams in
 emergencies.
Ł Standby Partnerships programme 
Œ links WHO with 
quasi-governmental organizations involved in emergency 

and relief work and maintains a roster of trained experts 

ready to be
 deployed.
 17WHO health emergenc˜es programme
Stopp˜ng d˜seases from 
cross˜ng borders
S˜nce May 2018, WHO has supported the 
Democrat˜c Republ˜c of the Congo ˜n prevent˜ng 

the spread of Ebola v˜rus d˜sease to ne˜ghbour˜ng 
countr˜es by sett˜ng up ex˜t screen˜ng for 

travellers at ˜nternat˜onal a˜rports, seaports and 

major land cross˜ngs. The act˜v˜t˜es ˜ncluded r˜sk 

mapp˜ng at porous borders, screen˜ng for s˜gns 

and symptoms of Ebola v˜rus d˜sease, mapp˜ng 

the h˜story of exposure, and rev˜ew˜ng ex˜t 

screen˜ng procedures.New Ebola v˜rus d˜sease test enables 
faster outbreak response
Previously, testing for Ebola virus disease could take days 
or even a week. A lack of local laboratory capacity meant 

that samples had to be sent to highly secure laboratories 

far from the outbreak location. This wasted precious time 

for the patient and allowed the undetected virus to
 spread.
The arrival of a rapid genetic test for the Zaire strain of 

Ebola, the 
Xpert Ebola test, 
changed that
. Developed 
during the 2014Œ2016 Ebola virus disease outbreak, the 

test uses the GeneXpert machine to produce results in 

under two hours instead of several days, allowing the rapid 

initiation of patient care and containment measures. The 

test can be safely implemented in provisional laboratories 

near patient care settings; it is simpler to use than a 

conventional polymerase chain reaction, and can be 

operated by locally-trained staff. During the Ebola virus 

disease outbreak, new laboratories could be set up in 48 

hours to move with the outbreak, and 
13 500 GeneXpert 
samples were tested. 
13 500samples 
tested
In the midst of conflict, and in some of the most challenging conditions, 
Ebola responders are working round the 

clock to ensure that people can get the 

information, care and treatment that they 

need. This is a snapshot of the operations 
in Democratic Republic of the Congo:*data as reported by 

1 January 2019
57 634vaccinations 
administered*
48hrs to set up a laboratory
2hrs to get a test result
Responding to the Ebola outbreak
6treatment 
centres 
supported by WHO 
and partners254
on security
More than
1000experts 
deployed 
by WHO and 
partners24 448 717 people screened
at points of entry*  18WHO health emergenc˜es programme
Stronger health system 
˜n the Republ˜c of Korea 
conta˜ns outbreak 
In September 2018, a 61-year-old Korean man 
was con˛rmed as hav˜ng M˜ddle East resp˜ratory 

syndrome (MERS-CoV) a day after return˜ng home 

to Seoul from a bus˜ness tr˜p to Kuwa˜t. M˜ddle 

East resp˜ratory syndrome ˜s a v˜ral resp˜ratory 

d˜sease that k˜lls more than one out of three 

people ˜t ˜nfects. The case brought back n˜ghtmares of the 2015 
outbreak ˜n the Republ˜c of Korea ˜n wh˜ch 186 
people were ˜nfected and 39 d˜ed; 70 health care 

fac˜l˜t˜es were also a˝ected. The cost was an 

est˜mated US$ 8 b˜ll˜on. 
Th˜s t˜me was d˜˝erent. The Republ˜c of Korea 
had made s˜gn˜˛cant ˜mprovements ˜n ˜ts 

health system, so that outbreaks of d˜seases 

l˜ke M˜ddle East resp˜ratory syndrome could 

be qu˜ckly ˜dent˜˛ed and conta˜ned. Follow˜ng 

WHO recommendat˜ons on pr˜or˜ty areas for 
systems strengthen˜ng Œ based on techn˜cal 

m˜ss˜ons dur˜ng the 2015 outbreak and a 2017 
Jo˜nt External Evaluat˜on (JEE) Œ the country 

had ˜mproved ˜ts health worker tra˜n˜ng, d˜sease 

surve˜llance, ˜nfect˜on prevent˜on and control 

procedures, laboratory systems and ˜nteragency 

commun˜cat˜ons. 
When the new case arr˜ved ˜n 2018, the Republ˜c 
of Korea was able to respond promptly and 

keep the d˜sease from spread˜ng. There were no 

further ˜nfect˜ons. The system was changed to 

address the gaps wh˜ch were ˜dent˜˛ed dur˜ng the 
evaluat˜on. Early recogn˜t˜on, prompt ˜solat˜on and 

good ˜nfect˜on, prevent˜on and control measures 

˜n health care fac˜l˜t˜es make a huge d˜˝erence ˜n 

how an event w˜ll unfold.

networks is the research and development blueprint (R&D 
Blueprint). It triggers research during outbreaks entailing 

fast-track development of effective diagnostic tests, 

vaccines and medicines, such as the vaccines against Ebola 

virus disease. In May 2018, a vaccine previously tested in 

Guinea was deployed in outbreak areas. 
Proven strateg˜es ˜mplemented 
 at scale
The number of high-threat infectious hazards continues 

to rise. WHO develops global strategies with partners from 

technical, scientific and social fields to counter high-threat 

infectious hazards and help manage scarce resources. The 

International Coordinating Group on Vaccine Provision
 monitors global stock levels of vaccines against cholera, 

meningitis and yellow fever to ensure adequate supplies in 

an outbreak. 
Some flagship global strategies
 include:Ł Eliminate Yellow Fever Epidemics (EYE) global 
strategy 
Œ to tackle the increased risk of yellow fever 
epidemics in a coordinated manner and to eliminate 

the disease by 2026, targeting the most vulnerable 

countries. In 2018, 61 million people were vaccinated in 

Africa. 
Stay˜ng safe by shar˜ng expert˜se
Emerging epidemic diseases threaten global health 

security. While WHO has specific strategies for combating 

known diseases, such as yellow fever, there are no medical 

counter-measures for some high-threat pathogens. To 

address this, WHO fosters research and information 
sharing for high-threat pathogens through expert technical 
networks and advisory groups, bringing together the latest 

expertise and institutional knowledge. These networks 

may offer innovative solutions for tackling pandemics and 
ﬁinfodemicsﬂ (damaging ﬁepidemicsﬂ of rumours during 
outbreaks). 
Some flagship networks
 include:Ł Global Influenza Surveillance and Response 
System 
Œ a 66-year-old network comprising 150 
institutions in 114 countries, it generates data for 

vaccine composition and offers guidance on influenza 

pandemic
 preparedness.
Ł Emerging Diseases Clinical Assessment and 

Response Network
 Œ defines standards of care, such as 
clinical standards and standard operating procedures, 

and, in emergencies, deploys clinical experts to the 
 front line. 
Ł Emerging and Dangerous Pathogens Laboratory 

Network 
Œ focuses on human and veterinary 
infections by following an integrated approach to 

laboratory
 response.
 19WHO health emergenc˜es programme
Ł Global Task Force on Cholera Control 
Œ much progress 
has been made on the global roadmap for ending 
cholera, which aims to reduce cholera mortality by 

90% globally and eliminate it in 20 high-risk countries 

by 2030, with 10 countries taking active measures to 

control cholera. 
Ł Global Influenza Strategy for 2019Œ2030
 Œ monitors influenza virus evolution, updates vaccine 

compositions and outlines global priorities for pandemic 

preparedness. 
 ŒMore than 500 million
 people were vaccinated for 
seasonal influenza around the world in 2018. 
 Œ400 million doses of pandemic vaccine were secured 
through the Pandemic Influenza Preparedness 
Framework. 
M˜t˜gat˜ng h˜gh-threat ˜nfect˜ous 
hazards 
We do not know which high-threat disease will emerge next, 
or where, only that novel pathogens are a certainty. New 

diseases often emerge in vulnerable countries that may 

not have the capability to prevent, detect and respond to 

outbreaks. WHO worked with its network of partners to 

reduce the risks of re-emergence of high-threat pathogens 

and the emergence of new and unknown high-threat 

pathogens, such as viral haemorrhagic fevers, vector-borne 

diseases, respiratory pathogens, biosecurity threats and 

antimicrobial resistance. Areas where action was taken 

include those set out below. 
Ł Laboratory biosafety and biosecurity Œ 
In 2018, WHO 
worked to improve specimen collection and safe 

transport, and access to quality-assured laboratory 

diagnostic capacity. Global consultations were organized 

to gather expert views and develop guidance and 

share best practices in the safe shipping of infectious 

substances, laboratory biosafety and biosecurity, and 

community-based surveillance. 
Ł Coordination of animal and health sectors Œ 
Nearly 
75% of emerging pathogens are zoonotic. Implementing 

the International Health Regulations (2005) requires 

the joint contribution of different disciplines and 

sectors through a One Health approach. WHO has 
been working in close collaboration with the Food and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), 
and, in particular, the World Organisation for Animal 

implementation of the International Health Regulations 
(2005). Together OIE and WHO have developed 
national 
bridging workshops
 to review gaps in coordination 
between the health and veterinary sectors. 
Restor˜ng health-care 
serv˜ces ˜n the Syr˜an Arab 
Republ˜c
Years of conˆ˜ct ˜n the Syr˜an Arab Republ˜c have 
taken a toll on the health system Œ once one of 

the reg˜on™s best Œ and have created one of the 

world™s b˜ggest and most complex human˜tar˜an 

emergenc˜es. Only half of all health fac˜l˜t˜es 

are fully funct˜onal due to attacks on fac˜l˜t˜es, 

wh˜le conˆ˜ct ˜n the north has severely d˜srupted 

serv˜ces. In 2018, there were outbreaks of typho˜d fever 
and acute d˜arrhoea caused by unclean water and 

san˜tat˜on. There were also outbreaks of measles 

ow˜ng to low vacc˜nat˜on coverage, wh˜le rates of 

cutaneous le˜shman˜as˜s rose sharply. 
Ł WHO, w˜th partners, ˜s help˜ng to restore 

d˜srupted serv˜ces. It also supports more 
than 1700 health-care fac˜l˜t˜es report˜ng to 

a d˜sease early warn˜ng system, wh˜ch helps 

rap˜dly detect and curta˜l such outbreaks. An 

outbreak of vacc˜ne-der˜ved pol˜ov˜rus was 

stopped w˜th a mass vacc˜nat˜on campa˜gn 

reach˜ng 2.6 m˜ll˜on ch˜ldren. 
Ł In 2018, WHO also del˜vered 1900 tonnes of 

health suppl˜es and equ˜pment, donated mob˜le 

cl˜n˜cs to br˜ng health care to underserved 

areas, and tra˜ned 30 000 people ˜n a w˜de 

range of health ˜ssues. 
 20WHO health emergenc˜es programme
Technology helps track 
d˜phther˜a ˜n the Roh˜ngya 
Human˜tar˜an Cr˜s˜s
When d˜phther˜a broke out ˜n November 2017,  
the outbreak qu˜ckly sp˜ralled to 150 cases a day. 

WHO™s new Early Warn˜ng, Alert and Response 

System (EWARS) enabled qu˜ck collect˜on of ˛eld 

data allow˜ng response teams to act promptly. 

Rather than lea˛ng through dozens of paper 
reports, health workers kept close track of the 

outbreak on the˜r laptops. Contact trac˜ng and 

d˜phther˜a treatment centres also helped conta˜n 
the outbreak.Controll˜ng cholera ˜n Yemen
The number of suspected cholera cases in the war-
torn nation of Yemen dropped from a peak of 50 000 a 

week in 2017 to a low of about 10 000 a week in 2018, 

following a range of interventions, including a mass 

vaccination campaign. More than 306 000 people were 

vaccinated against cholera as part of a joint WHO-UNICEF 

campaign that concluded in October 2018. Yemen has 

experienced a surge in cholera cases since April 2017 due 

to ongoing conflict, destroyed health, water and sanitation 

infrastructure, and malnutrition, which increases the 

vulnerability of the population. The cholera epidemic in 

Yemen was the largest in the world in 2018. 
 21WHO health emergenc˜es programme
Rap˜dly detect˜ng health emergenc˜es 
WHO has a system for carrying out continuous event-based 
surveillance of public health events and verification and 

assessment of detected events. It currently picks up 7000 

public health threat signals every month, of which 0.5% 

result in formal field investigations and risk
 assessments.
During outbreaks, WHO provides support to countries 

for continuously monitoring events and conducting risk 

assessments, including implementation of the 
Public 
Health Information System
. 
Disease Outbreak News (DONs) 
provides updates 
containing epidemiological summaries, responses, risk 

assessments and advice. DONs are among the most visited 

WHO webpages, receiving nearly three million visits a year. 

In 2018, WHO published 91 DONs. 
The Early Warning, Alert and Response System (EWARS)
 is a new computer programme developed by WHO for 
outbreak detection in emergency settings. It allows for 

quick collection of field data to enable a prompt response. 
In 2018, WHO mon˜tored and 
assessed nearly 
180 health 
events each week
, produc˜ng weekly and da˜ly 
updates.Gett˜ng countr˜es to 
mon˜tor and report 
preparedness capac˜t˜es 
In 2018, WHO worked closely w˜th countr˜es 
to mon˜tor and report on the˜r emergency 

preparedness capac˜t˜es for all hazards. The 

work ˜s mostly founded on the 
Internat˜onal 

Health Regulat˜ons
 (2005), the legal framework 

wh˜ch sets out procedures for prepar˜ng and 
respond˜ng to publ˜c health threats. WHO has 

developed four tools to help countr˜es assess and 
report capac˜t˜es for emergency preparedness. 

These ˜nclude s˜mulat˜on exerc˜ses 
and Jo˜nt 
External Evaluat˜ons
 (a voluntary process to 
assess a country™s capac˜ty to prevent, detect and 

respond to r˜sks, and to ˜dent˜fy cr˜t˜cal gaps and 

opportun˜t˜es for better preparedness). Ł In 2018, 187 countr˜es reported on the˜r 

nat˜onal capac˜t˜es to respond to emergenc˜es. 
Ł 24 Jo˜nt External Evaluat˜ons and 31 s˜mulat˜on 

exerc˜ses were conducted ˜n 2018. 
A s˜mulat˜on exerc˜se
 for a global pandem˜c 
response ˜nvolv˜ng some 40 countr˜es took place 

˜n December 2018, coord˜nated by WHO and the 

EOC Network, a global network of emergency 

operat˜ons centres. Tak˜ng as ˜ts theme, a v˜rtual 

˜nˆuenza outbreak on a ˛ct˜onal ˜sland, sta˝ from 

emergency operat˜ons centres around the world 

were able to test the˜r pandem˜c plans ˜n order to 

˜dent˜fy areas for ˜mprovement.
Strengthen˜ng nat˜onal 
emergency preparedness
Through health strengthen˜ng e˝orts, WHO 

worked to ˜mprove funct˜onal capac˜t˜es, such 

as laborator˜es, nat˜onal emergency plans, 

mult˜sectoral cooperat˜on and surve˜llance 

systems capable of ver˜fy˜ng acute publ˜c health 

r˜sks. WHO also supported countr˜es ˜n n
at˜onal 

act˜on plann˜ng for health secur˜ty 
˜n order to 

accelerate ˜mplementat˜on of the Internat˜onal 

Health Regulat˜ons (2005). 
WHO helps countr˜es strengthen laboratory and 
surve˜llance capac˜ty by supply˜ng techn˜cal 

gu˜dance, mater˜als and tools. The 
Safe 

Hosp˜tals In˜t˜at˜ve 
helps keep hosp˜tals safe and 
operat˜onal dur˜ng a d˜saster. An assessment tool 

prov˜des a snapshot of the hosp˜tal™s safety and 

preparedness.As at the end of 2018,
28 countr˜es had completed the˜r 
nat˜onal act˜on plans for health 
secur˜ty.
850 laboratory personnel ˜n 62 
countr˜es rece˜ved tra˜n˜ng. 
400 profess˜onals at ports 
and a˜rports were tra˜ned ˜n 

surve˜llance. 
2800 health profess˜onals 
˜n 141 countr˜es were tra˜ned ˜n 

health secur˜ty. 
 22WHO health emergenc˜es programme
Key ˚gures for 2018Œ19 WHO Health Emergenc˜es
Budget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by major o˚ce (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
Approved Programme budget: US$ 554 million
Funds available: US$ 383 million (69% of Programme
 budget)
Expenditure: US$ 194 million (35% of Programme budget, 50% of available
 resources)
Budget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by programme (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
9661322006080140160180200401201001541115263342114711456Emergency core serv˜ces
Emergency operat˜ons
Health emergency 
˜nformat˜on and r˜sk 
assessmentCountry health emergency 
preparedness and the Internat˜onal Health 
Regulat˜ons (2005)Infect˜ous hazard management
946333Headquarters
18914570Amer˜cas
29116Europe
331811South-East As˜a311610Eastern Med˜terranean
937125Afr˜ca
1419859Western Pac˜˚c
382413Health Assembly-approved budget
Funds ava˜lable (as at 31 December 2018)
Expend˜tureBudget and ˜mplementat˜on
The WHO Health Emergencies Programme was financed 
to 69% of its approved level. However, this was uneven 

across major offices with, for example, 77% in headquarters 

and 76% in the Eastern Mediterranean Region, but only 
38% in the Region of the Americas. Although the scale of 



in the African and Eastern Mediterranean Regions (owing 

to the high level of emergency work in the two regions), 
 23WHO health emergenc˜es programme
Key ˚gures for 2018Œ19 WHO Health Emergenc˜es
expenditure as a percentage of the approved level was 
lower in the latter, at only 27%. The African Region, by 
comparison, achieved 42% of the approved level. The low 

expenditure rate reflects the challenge of operating in 

conflict, fragile and vulnerable situations. Closer support 

for implementation is
 needed.The extent of available resources remained relatively 

consistent across programme areas with the exception of 

health emergency information and risk assessment which 

had only 54% of the approved level. However, expenditure 

levels were all close to the average of 35% of the approved 

level for the WHO Health Emergencies programme
 area.
Given the relatively large size of the approved budget for 

the WHO Health Emergencies Programme, the flexibility of 

funding remains a key to full financing of this
 programme.
For further details on the Programme budget funding and 
implementation for this category, please refer to the WHO 
Programme Budget Portal (
http://open.who.int/2018-19/
our-work/category/12/about/key-figures
 and http://open.
who.int/2018-19
). 
Top 10 voluntary contr˜butors (spec˜˛ed)
Expend˜ture: sta˝ vs. act˜v˜ty
Expend˜ture by level
Funding
 source:
Flexible funding: 29%


Of the total voluntary contributions specified, 
83% were from 10 contributors (shown
 beside)
36%29%35%Countryo˜cesReg˚onal 
o˜cesHeadquarters
42%58%Act˚v˚ty
Gav˜, the Vacc˜ne All˜ance
3%B˜ll & Mel˜nda 
Gates Foundat˜on3%8%Kuwa˜t
Un˜ted K˜ngdom of Great Br˜ta˜n and Northern Ireland16%Un˜ted States of Amer˜ca 
34%Austral˜a
6%Germany7%France
2%Russ˜an Federat˜on
2%Republ˜c of Korea2%Sta˛ 24WHO health emergenc˜es programme
Key ˚gures for 2018Œ2019 Human˜tar˜an response plans 
and other appeals
Approved Programme budget: US$0 million
Funds available: US$ 878 million
Expenditure: US$ 419 million (48% of available
 resources)
Budget and ˜mplementat˜on
Being entirely event-driven, the programme area of 
Outbreak and crisis response had no approved budget level 

for 2018Œ2019. It also received only 1% of its available 

resources from flexible funding sources, given the reliance 

on donor support of such
 work.
Overall expenditure was 48% of the available resources with 

headquarters the lowest at 30%. The African Region reached 

67% and the Western Pacific Region almost 100% (although 

the latter received the smallest amount of any major office 

in absolute terms). Ninety-five per cent of expenditure was 

at the country level. Only 7% of expenditure was for
 staff.
Budget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by programme (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
1910100030040060020050011886753914977Fast track research 
for ˜nfect˜ous hazards
Establ˜sh e˝ect˜ve coord˜nat˜on and 
operat˜ons support
Strengthen surve˜llance, 
early warn˜ng and health 

˜nformat˜on managementPrevent and control outbreaks
Increase access to essent˜al health and 
nutr˜t˜on serv˜ces517207Funds ava˜lable (as at 31 December 2018)
Expend˜tureAmer˜cas
84Europe
8140South-East As˜a219Eastern Med˜terranean
542233Afr˜ca
172116Western Pac˜˚c
11Headquarters
5316Budget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by major o˚ce (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
 25WHO health emergenc˜es programme
The data show that the rate of expenditure is low for the 
areas with substantially more financing. This is particularly 

evident for the increasing access to essential health and 

nutrition services. The rate of expenditure is at 40% 

of a significantly larger funding of US$ 517 million. The 

reasons for this low rate are being assessed in order to 

determine whether there is a need for investing resources 

in implementation, including collaboration with relevant 
technical programmes in WHO which are also key for 

responding to emergencies. 
For further details on the Programme budget funding and 
implementation for this Category, please refer to the WHO 

Programme Budget Portal (
http://open.who.int/2018-19/
our-work/category/13/about/key-figures
 and http://open.
who.int/2018-19).
Top 10 voluntary contr˜butors (spec˜˛ed)
Expend˜ture: sta˝ vs. act˜v˜ty
Expend˜ture by level
Headquarters
7%93%Sta˛M˜scellaneous
European Comm˜ss˜on5%Un˜ted K˜ngdom of Great Br˜ta˜n and Northern IrelandInternat˜onal Development Assoc˜at˜on (IDA)
JapanKuwa˜t
K˜ng Salman Human˜tar˜an A˜d 
& Rel˜ef Center4%4%4%4%7%10%7%14%Un˜ted States of Amer˜ca
16%Un˜ted Nat˜ons 
Central Emergency 
Response Fund 
(CERF)Un˜ted Nat˜ons 
O˚ce for the Coord˜nat˜on of 
Human˜tar˜an A˝a˜rs 
(UNOCHA)Act˚v˚ty
2%3%Reg˚onal 
o˜cesCountryo˜ces95%Funding
 source:
Flexible funding: 1% 

Of the total voluntary contributions specified, 
75% were from 10 contributors (shown
 beside)
 26PROMOTING 
HEALTH THROUGH 
THE LIFE COURSE
PROGRAMME AREAS
Reproduct˜ve, 
maternal, newborn, 
ch˜ld and adolescent health
Age˜ng and health
Health and the 
env˜ronment
Equ˜ty, soc˜al 
determ˜nants, 
 gender equal˜ty  and human r˜ghts 27The life course approach recognizes the specific health 
concerns of different stages of life and ages: safe 

pregnancy, delivery and childbirth; early childhood 

development; healthy transition to adulthood during 



reproduction; and healthy ageing, which is now the 

fastest-growing life
 stage.
An unacceptably high number of women and young 

children, mostly in low-resource settings, die every day of 

causes that can easily be prevented. Social, economic and 

environmental factors play a part. The life course approach 

aims to identify the factors that lead to inequitable health 

outcomes. It also considers how previous and future 

generations are interconnected. The overall goal is to 

promote health equity by protecting human rights and 

reducing gender inequalities. 
Key ach˜evements
Br˜ng˜ng ˜nnovat˜ons to make 
ch˜ldb˜rth safer and better 
The tragedy of maternal mortality still takes 830 lives a 
day. The largest direct cause of these deaths is severe 

bleeding after birth. Almost 99% of these deaths occur 

in developing countries. Now, a new formulation of a drug 

offers fresh hope, according to a study led by the special 

Human Reproduction Programme
1 and published in the 
New England Journal of Medicine
 in 2018. The study shows 
that heat-stable carbetocin
 is as effective as the standard 
therapy, oxytocin, which requires refrigeration. Eliminating 

the need for refrigeration could save thousands of women 

who live in settings where it is difficult to store drugs in 
the right conditions. The study included close to 30
 000 
women in 10
 countries.
1 The UNDP/UNFPA/UNICEF/WHO/World Bank Special Programme of Research, Development and Research Training in Human
 Reproduction.
Outcomes we are a˜m˜ng to ach˜eve 
˜n 2018-2019Ł Increased access to ˜ntervent˜ons for ˜mprov˜ng health of women, newborns, 
ch˜ldren and adolescentsŁ Increased proport˜on of people who are able to l˜ve a long and healthy l˜fe
Ł Reduced env˜ronmental threats to health
Ł Improved capac˜t˜es ˜n WHO, the health 

sector and across all government 
departments and agenc˜es (whole-
of-government) for address˜ng soc˜al 
determ˜nants, gender ˜nequal˜t˜es and 

human r˜ghts ˜n health and produc˜ng 
equ˜table outcomes across the Susta˜nable Development GoalsPromot˜ng health over the l˜fe course demands a whole-of-
soc˜ety movement to create nurtur˜ng cond˜t˜ons ˜n wh˜ch 
people of all ages can thr˜ve. It requ˜res peoples™ part˜c˜pat˜on, 

the vo˜ces of all, and that those vo˜ces be heard, part˜cularly 

the vo˜ces of those left beh˜nd.Dr Car˜ssa F Et˜enne
WHO Reg˜onal D˜rector for the Amer˜cas   
 28
research on labour and delivery has helped WHO to produce 

the guideline on intrapartum care for a positive childbirth 
experience.
 The 56 evidence-based recommendations 

include enabling women to decide on their pain management, 

Iabour and birth positions. Some recommendations 

are being incorporated in national plans. The special 

Human Reproduction Programme research also led to the 

development of WHO recommendations on non-clinical 

interventions to reduce unnecessary caesarean sections. The 

increasing medicalization of birth has led to needless and 

potentially harmful interventions being performed, including 

interventions previously used only to treat complications 

or avoid risks, such as caesarean sections. Unnecessary 

interventions may strain scarce resources. 
Global monitoring of 
Maternal Death Surveillance and 
Response
 aims to notify, quantify and review deaths, and 
also to inform work to improve the quality of care around 

birth and ultimately reduce maternal mortality. Of the 148 

countries that responded to the 2018 survey or the 2015 

baseline survey, more than 80% of countries reported a 

policy for notification of maternal death within 24 hours 

and a national policy for review of deaths. 
Reduc˜ng newborn death
Globally, the number of neonatal deaths declined by half, 

from 5 million in 1990 to 2.5 million in 2017 (most recent 

data). However, the decline in neonatal mortality was 

slower than that for under-5 mortality. It is crucial that 



first 28 days for premature or low-birth weight newborns 

to increase their chances of survival. WHO has promoted 

kangaroo mother care to this end. Significant progress is 

being made in the reduction of maternal, newborn and child 

mortality. 
Under-˚ve mortal˜ty rate (probab˜l˜ty of dy˜ng between b˜rth and exactly 
 5 years of age)
Mortal˜ty per 1000 l˜ve b˜rthsNeonatal mortal˜ty rate (probab˜l˜ty of dy˜ng ˜n the 
˚rst 28 days of l˜fe)
Neonatal and under-5 mortal˜ty rates
19901999200820170401050206030708090100Sav˜ng the l˜ves of mothers 
˜n Paraguay
In 2014, Paraguay embarked on a four-year 
programme to reduce the relat˜vely h˜gh number 

of women who d˜e ˜n ch˜ldb˜rth, under the slogan 

#CeroMuertesEv˜tables. 
WHO ˜n the Reg˜on of the Amer˜cas/PAHO 
prov˜ded techn˜cal cooperat˜on w˜th a focus 

on strengthen˜ng four areas: ˜ntegrated health 

serv˜ces network; maternal and neonatal health 

surve˜llance; human resources development ˜n 

the mother-ch˜ld area at three levels of care; and 

strateg˜c ˜nformat˜on system. 
The ˜mpact of the programme ˜s clear, w˜th a 10% 
drop ˜n the number of maternal deaths dur˜ng 
the last 3˛years. Fam˜ly Health Un˜ts have been 

strengthened w˜th ˜mproved bas˜c equ˜pment, 

suppl˜es and mater˜als ˜n order to enable better 

prevent˜on and mon˜tor˜ng of malnutr˜t˜on ˜n 
pregnant women and ch˜ldren under ˚ve. Rural 

and ˜nd˜genous women now also have better 

access to ˚nanc˜al educat˜on and econom˜c 

empowerment through soc˜o-product˜ve 
˜n˜t˜at˜ves. Another ˜mpact was the strengthened capac˜ty 
of human resources for comprehens˜ve health 

care, w˜th an emphas˜s on obstetr˜c and neonatal 

emergency management through ﬁCode Redﬂ 

tra˜n˜ng sess˜ons, wh˜ch made techn˜cal and 

˚nanc˜al cooperat˜on poss˜ble ˜n health fac˜l˜t˜es ˜n 

hard-to-reach commun˜t˜es. More than 6600 health 

profess˜onals and techn˜c˜ans were tra˜ned.
Add˜t˜onally, the mortal˜ty ˜nformat˜on system was 
˜mproved, w˜th re˜nforced analys˜s capab˜l˜t˜es 

concern˜ng maternal deaths and clar˜˚cat˜on of 

d˜screpanc˜es between reg˜stered and est˜mated 
maternal mortal˜ty.  29Kangaroo mother care: sav˜ng 
newborns 
WHO recommends kangaroo mother care for newborns of 
low birth weight as an effective alternative to conventional 

neonatal care, which is expensive and requires skilled 

personnel. Kangaroo mother care involves prolonged 

skin-to-skin contact, exclusive breastfeeding and close 

monitoring for illness. 
WHO has been coordinating clinical trials to generate 
new evidence on kangaroo mother care. A study on home-

initiated kangaroo mother care showed that it substantially 

reduced neonatal and infant mortality for low birth weight 

infants. A second study in four African countries and one 

Asian country is
 ongoing.
Improv˜ng care for 
maternal and newborn 
health ˜n Malaw˜
Malaw˜™s Nat˜onal Qual˜ty Management pol˜cy, 
2017- 2022, sets the framework for ˜mprov˜ng 

the qual˜ty of health serv˜ces and ach˜ev˜ng 

nat˜onal development goals. WHO and partners 

have helped to develop new serv˜ce del˜very 

standards for qual˜ty of care, based on WHO™s 

latest gu˜del˜nes. A total of 24 health fac˜l˜t˜es (d˜str˜cts or 
commun˜ty hosp˜tals and health centres) were 

˜dent˜˚ed as learn˜ng s˜tes ˜n s˜x d˜str˜cts w˜th 
h˜gh maternal mortal˜ty levels, h˜gh catchment 

populat˜ons and ava˜lable fund˜ng. Improvements 

are be˜ng made ˜n the proper and e˝ect˜ve use of 
partographs, superv˜s˜on and ˜nfect˜on prevent˜on 

˜n maternal health areas, documentat˜on of care 

and data management and use. Malaw˜ ˜s one of ten path˚nder countr˜es 
supported by WHO as part of the Network to 

˜mprove the qual˜ty of care for maternal, newborn 

and ch˜ld health (the QoC Network). 
Malaw˜™s nat˜onal goals for 2030
Ł Reduce maternal mortal˜ty rate from 439 to 140  

per 100˛000 l˜ve b˜rthsŁ Reduce neonatal mortal˜ty rate from 27 to 12 

per 1000 l˜ve b˜rthsŁ Reduce under-˚ve mortal˜ty rate from 63 to 25 

deaths per 1000 b˜rthsWHO coordinated the scale up of kangaroo mother care in 
four regions of Ethiopia and three states in India, reaching a 

total population of six million. Barriers were systematically 

identified and addressed by district health teams, including 

by enabling mothers to stay in hospitals for kangaroo mother 

care, addressing the false beliefs of health workers that 

incubators were a better alternative to kangaroo mother care 

and counselling family members to support kangaroo mother 

care at home. Population-based coverage of more than 

80% initiation of kangaroo mother care and 60% effective 

kangaroo mother care (defined as more than 8 hours a day of 

skin-to-skin contact and exclusive breastfeeding) has been 
achieved Œ a significant rise from the baseline coverage of 
less than 5%. The scale up has been expanded across the 
provinces and states involved in the two
 countries.
In the Western Pacific Region, the 
eight priority countries 
with the highest burden of newborn deaths were supported 
to scale up 
Early Essential Newborn Care.

coaching for routine Early Essential Newborn Care, 

which reached 30 000 health workers in more than 3600 

hospitals in the priority countries, was well received. Upon 

request from countries, a teaching module was developed 

on kangaroo mother care. Subsequent assessments showed 

significant practice change in delivery and postnatal room 

occupancy, with kangaroo mother care rising to 35% of 

preterm babies, a fivefold rise from 7% in two years. The 

scale up was most pronounced in the Philippines and 

Viet Nam. Significantly, the practice of health workers 

greatly improved. The results from one hospital in Da 
Nang, Viet
 Nam, showed a decrease in sepsis, admission 
to intensive care units for newborns and hypothermia 

on admission and a rise in exclusive breastfeeding, as 

published in EClinicalMedicine,
 a Lancet journal. 
 30El˜m˜nat˜ng cerv˜cal cancer
In May 2018, the WHO D˜rector-General, Dr˛Tedros 
Adhanom Ghebreyesus, made a global call to 

act˜on towards the el˜m˜nat˜on of cerv˜cal cancer, 

wh˜ch ˜s caused by sexual transm˜ss˜on of the 

human pap˜llomav˜rus . Desp˜te be˜ng one of 

the most preventable and treatable forms of 
cancer, w˜th a vacc˜ne and e˝ect˜ve screen˜ng 

and treatment ava˜lable, human pap˜llomav˜rus 

k˜lls a woman every two m˜nutes and 90% of 

these deaths occur ˜n low- and m˜ddle- ˜ncome 

countr˜es˛Œ there are both gross ˜nequ˜t˜es and a 
publ˜c health threat. 
Vacc˜nat˜on aga˜nst human pap˜llomav˜rus, 
screen˜ng and treatment of precancer, early 

detect˜on and prompt treatment of ˜nvas˜ve 

cancers and pall˜at˜ve care have proven to be 

e˝ect˜ve strateg˜es for address˜ng cerv˜cal cancer 

across the care cont˜nuum and represent the 

WHO l˜fe course approach to cerv˜cal cancer 

control. The development of a global strategy 

to spec˜fy 2030 targets for el˜m˜nat˜ng cerv˜cal 

cancer ˜s under way at the request of the Member 

States dur˜ng the 144th sess˜on of the Execut˜ve 
Board, held ˜n January 2019. 
WHO, the spec˜al Human Reproduct˜on 
Programme, IARC and other partners are 

collaborat˜ng to accelerate response. Strong 

research programmes have been developed to:
 Œval˜date new technolog˜es for the screen˜ng of 

cerv˜cal cancer and the treatment of cerv˜cal 

pre-cancer les˜ons;
 Œde˚ne and val˜date the most cost-e˝ect˜ve 

algor˜thms to ensure screen˜ng and treatment 
of all targeted women; 
 Œensure that any new technology support˜ng 
the el˜m˜nat˜on of cerv˜cal cancer agenda can 

be rap˜dly val˜dated and made ava˜lable to 

countr˜es.By October 2018, 85 countr˜es had ˜ntroduced 

vacc˜nat˜on aga˜nst human pap˜llomav˜rus. 

Bol˜v˜a (Plur˜nat˜onal State of), Myanmar, 

Mongol˜a, Morocco, the Un˜ted Republ˜c of 

Tanzan˜a and Uzbek˜stan are ˜mplement˜ng p˜lot 

projects to scale up, over the next three years, the 

˜ntroduct˜on of human pap˜llomav˜rus test˜ng for 

screen˜ng, and cryotherapy or thermal ablat˜on 

for the treatment of pre cancer les˜ons, w˜th 

support from WHO and s˜x other Un˜ted Nat˜ons 

partners (IAEA, IARC, UNAIDS, UNFPA, UNICEF 

and UN Women).
WHO ˜s also work˜ng on 
po˜nt-of-care tests
 for gonorrhoea, chlamyd˜a and 
tr˜chomon˜as˜s, as well as tests 
for HPV to prevent cerv˜cal 

cancer. Vacc˜nes aga˜nst herpes, 
gonorrhoea and chlamyd˜a are 
be˜ng developed
Syph˜l˜s screen˜ng w˜th rap˜d dual 
 tests for pregnant women was 
 expanded ˜n more than 
10 countr˜es ˜n 2018  w˜th support from WHO
El˜m˜nat˜ng congen˜tal syph˜l˜s 
Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) still represent a 
massive global burden of disease, with 1 million people 

acquiring a curable STI every day and 500 million people 

living with the incurable Herpes Simplex Virus. Syphilis is 
one of the most common STIs, with 6
 million new cases 
each year. Mother-to-child transmission of syphilis has 

serious consequences Œ it is the second leading cause of 

stillbirth. WHO is working to address this situation on a 

number of fronts through the special Human Reproduction 
Programme and both are actively monitoring STIs, including 
congenital syphilis. WHO published a report on syphilis 
global estimates in
 2018.
WHO and the Special Programme are supporting countries 
to scale up the use of dual testing for both HIV and syphilis. 
Coverage of syphilis screening is low in many high-
prevalence countries, often lagging behind HIV screening. 
Since WHO prequalification of the first rapid test for the 
two diseases in 2017, screening has expanded. 
WHO has supported efforts to expand syphilis screening 
through rapid dual tests for pregnant women in more than 
10 countries in 2018, with the aim of reducing mother-

to-child transmission of syphilis through testing and 

treatment with benzathine penicillin. Many countries 
are being supported to eliminate congenital syphilis. In 
2018, Malaysia was the twelfth country to be validated for 
elimination of mother-to-child transmission of syphilis. 
 31Turn˜ng the t˜de aga˜nst 
gonococcal ant˜m˜crob˜al 

res˜stance
Gonorrhoea is on a growing list of infections that are 
running out of treatment options. 
Gonococci
 Œ the bacteria 
which cause the infection
 Œ are becoming increasingly 
resistant to the antibiotics that formerly killed them. In 
2012Œ2014, data generated from Gonorrhoea Surveillance 
Programme showed that 70 of 72 countries reported 
resistance to quinolone, yet the majority of countries in 
resource-constrained settings still have quinolone in their 
national STI treatment guidelines. 
In 2016, WHO released a new guideline on the treatment 
of gonorrhoea based on the latest evidence, including 
antimicrobial resistance patterns. WHO recommended that 
countries update their gonorrhoea treatment guidelines 

based on country antimicrobial resistance patterns and 

remove quinolones as a treatment
 option.
By 2018, the majority of countries (58 countries) had 
adapted the new WHO-recommended treatment guidelines. 
Quinolone has been deleted as a recommendation for 
treating gonorrhoea. The majority of countries now 

recommend the use of ceftriaxone or cefixime to treat 

gonorrhoea. There has also been an increase of countries 

monitoring antimicrobial resistance in gonorrhoea; 

there are currently 67 countries monitoring gonorrhoea 

antimicrobial
 resistance.
Accelerat˜ng ch˜ld-centred 
coverage ˜n the Un˜ted 
Republ˜c of Tanzan˜a
In 2013, WHO supported the M˜n˜stry of Health 
˜n the Un˜ted Republ˜c of Tanzan˜a to p˜lot a 

blended learn˜ng course on ˜mplement˜ng an 

˜ntegrated approach to ch˜ld health that focuses 

on the well-be˜ng of the ch˜ld (d˜stance learn˜ng 

Integrated Management of Ch˜ldhood Illness 

or d-IMCI). Follow˜ng a systemat˜c assessment 

of the p˜lot, wh˜ch showed that scale-up of the 

tra˜n˜ng was feas˜ble and e˝ect˜ve, a total of 

7820 health workers were tra˜ned ˜n 72 d˜str˜cts 

between 2015 and 2018. The d-IMCI prov˜des a 

solut˜on to low coverage of IMCI, poor adherence 

to IMCI gu˜del˜nes, h˜gh turnover of IMCI-

tra˜ned prov˜ders and h˜gh costs of tra˜n˜ng. 

It has m˜n˜m˜zed d˜srupt˜on of serv˜ces and 

reduced costs by 70%. The course takes 10 

weeks to complete and ˜ncludes three face-to-
face classroom encounters that last 1 day each, 
one ons˜te coach˜ng sess˜on and two sess˜ons of 

d˜stance learn˜ng. Fac˜l˜ty coverage of up to 90% 

has been ach˜eved by schedul˜ng several cohorts 

of tra˜n˜ng ˜n parallel, allow˜ng them to tra˜n on 

alternate days at the same s˜te ˜n a d˜str˜ct. 
Tha˜land, a path˚nder ˜n 
strengthen˜ng gonorrhoea 
surve˜llance for 

ant˜m˜crob˜al res˜stance
To prevent the spread of gonorrhoea, 
˜nclud˜ng the drug-res˜stant type, ˜t ˜s 

v˜tal that people get d˜agnosed and rece˜ve 

appropr˜ate care promptly. Tha˜land has been 

a pathf˜nder ˜n strengthen˜ng the surve˜llance 

programme for gonorrhoea ant˜m˜crob˜al 

res˜stance, as recommended by WHO to gu˜de 

rev˜s˜ons of gonorrhoea treatment. Based on 

ant˜m˜crob˜al res˜stance patterns, gonorrhoea 

treatment gu˜del˜nes ˜n the M˜n˜stry of 

Health of Tha˜land have been rev˜sed and 

d˜ssem˜nated w˜dely ˜n both the publ˜c and 

pr˜vate sectors. To date, through enhanced 

surve˜llance by the WHO Global Gonococcal 

Ant˜m˜crob˜al Surve˜llance Programme, 

gonorrhoea rema˜ns suscept˜ble to ceftr˜axone 

and cef˜x˜me ˜n Tha˜land.
Youth health no longer overlooked
At a time when there are more adolescents in history 
than at any period before, adolescent health is finally 

attracting the attention it deserves. The need for a youth 

focus in planning health care is increasingly recognized. 

For example, half of all mental health disorders appear by 

14 years but mostly go untreated; also, suicide is the third 

leading cause of death in 15 to 19-year-olds. In view of 

this, the Accelerated Action for the Health of Adolescents 

(AA-HA!) was launched by WHO and UN partners. In the 

African Region, 36 countries are now using the AA-HA 

guidance for national coordination, planning and setting 

priorities. In the Eastern Mediterranean Region, a guide has 

been developed for programmatic action for adolescent 

health in humanitarian settings. 
WHO has, with partners, set up an advisory group, 
Global Action for Measurement of Adolescent Health,
 to address data gaps and harmonize and prioritize 

indicators. Normative tools published include a handbook 

on adolescent health services barriers assessment and 

guidelines on adolescent nutrition and on HIV
 prophylaxis.
 32Act˜ons on ma˜nstream
 ˜ng gender 
equal˜ty and human r˜ghts to ach˜eve 
health equ˜ty
Work to mainstream gender equality and human rights 
into programme areas has continued, including various 

initiatives taken up at the regional
 level.
In the African Region, 21 countries have been supported 

to mainstream gender equality, health equity and human 

rights into their health policies. Six countries now have 

national plans to accelerate the abandonment of female 

genital mutilation and 12 countries are set to use WHO tools 

to strengthen the health system response to gender-based 

violence and sexual assault. A pilot of the adolescent health 

services barriers assessment tool in Kenya and Nigeria 

revealed powerful details about the existing barriers. 

The research was done to support implementation of the 

AA-HA! Framework.
The WHO European Health Equity Dataset
 was developed 
by the Regional Office to capture trends on health equity. 




health, backed by a report on the subject. 
In the Western Pacific Region, awareness on gender equality 
and health equity was raised at a number of 
Talanoa
 Dialogues Œ traditional gatherings in Fiji and the Pacific for 
inclusive, participatory and transparent discussion. Training 
of health workers was also provided in Kiribati, Solomon 
Islands and Vanuatu, while the health sector response was 
assessed in Viet Nam and Micronesia (Federated States of). 
Innov8 to reach vulnerable 
adolescents ˜n the Dom˜n˜can Republ˜c
In the Dominican Republic, pregnancy in adolescents 
is a problem, particularly for young girls in vulnerable 

communities. In late 2017, the national programme to 

prevent pregnancy was reviewed by the Ministry of Health, 
the Region of the Americas/PAHO and other partners. 
The review group used the WHO tool
 Innov8
 for analysis; 
its equity-based methodology allows the evaluation and 
redesign of national health strategies and programmes 
to close coverage gaps. Specifically, Innov8 was used 
to identify groups not reached by health programmes, 
recognize barriers and facilitating factors and find 
structural mechanisms that impact inequities and facilitate 
intersectoral action. Innov8 was also used to measure and 
monitor
 progress.
In 2018, the intersectoral team managed to complete 
the first seven steps of Innov8, fulfilling fundamental 

recommendations for the preparation of the new Prevention 

Plan for Adolescent Pregnancies 2019Œ2023. The updated 
Plan ensures the inclusion of the most vulnerable 
adolescent groups, reduces inequities and achieves lower 
pregnancy rates in this
 population. 33A grow˜ng comm˜tment to healthy 
age˜ng 
Increasing attention to healthy ageing is evident in the 
remarkable progress made since WHO released the 
Global 
Strategy and Action Plan on Ageing and Health
 in 2016. 
In the two years since, the number of countries with a 

national focal point in health ministries has increased to 

112 and the number of those with national strategies on 

ageing has doubled to 88. Regional meetings involving 

80 countries have increased policy coherence. In China, 

a newly established department of ageing was set up. 

National workshops on implementing national strategies 

are picking up pace across all regions including in Chile, 

Maldives, Nepal, Qatar, Tajikistan, Thailand and
 Senegal.
The WHO Global Network for Age-friendly Cities 
and Communities
 has now expanded to 800 cities and 
communities in 40 countries, covering more than 200 million 

people. Leaders in these cities work to improve housing, 

transport, health and long-term care for older adults. 
Guidance on aligning long-term and health care systems 

WHO 
Guidelines on Integrated Care for Older People.
 One tool 
to support implementation is the WHO Mobile Health for 

Ageing (mAgeing) programme. Technical advice has been 

provided to 43 countries across regions on adapting the 

WHO Guidelines on Integrated Care for Older People. 
To improve data collection and reporting and ensure older 
adults are counted and visible, WHO and partners has 

launched the Titchfield City Group on Ageing and Age 
Disaggregated Data,
 with 60 national statistical offices. 
WHO also provides support for national case studies. The 

WHO Study on Global AGEing and Adult Health is helping 

to monitor healthy ageing over time in six countries Œ 

China, Ghana, India, Mexico, the Russian Federation and 

South Africa. 
Bu˜ld˜ng a cl˜mate 
res˜l˜ent health system
 ˜n Eth˜op˜aCl˜mate change ˜s threaten˜ng countr˜es™ rap˜d 
development progress through changes ˜n 
average temperature and prec˜p˜tat˜on. Th˜s 

ra˜ses the challenge of prov˜d˜ng rel˜able, 

susta˜nable water and san˜tat˜on serv˜ces to a 

large and grow˜ng populat˜on across d˜verse 

cl˜mat˜c reg˜ons.WHO has supported Bangladesh, Eth˜op˜a, Nepal 
and Un˜ted Republ˜c of Tanzan˜a to address 

cl˜mate change, water and health, w˜th fund˜ng 

from the Government of the Un˜ted K˜ngdom of 

Great Br˜ta˜n and Northern Ireland. In Eth˜op˜a, ev˜dence of the ˜nterl˜nkages 
between these areas was developed and pol˜cy 

coherence strengthened. Cl˜mate res˜l˜ent water 

safety plans were ˜mplemented ˜n 31 water 

supply systems, cover˜ng more than 1 m˜ll˜on 

people. The success of th˜s project has led to a further grant of US$ 10 m˜ll˜on for WHO to scale up work 

˜n Bangladesh, Eth˜op˜a, Malaw˜, Mozamb˜que 

and Nepal to strengthen surve˜llance systems 

and develop early warn˜ng systems for cholera 

and other cl˜mate-sens˜t˜ve d˜seases, as well 

as to ˜mplement cl˜mate-res˜l˜ent water and 

san˜tat˜on safety plans. Th˜s work ˜s based on WHO™s cl˜mate-res˜l˜ent 
water safety plans, wh˜ch expla˜n how to 

take ˜nto cons˜derat˜on the broader ˜ssues of 

cl˜mate change, reg˜onal cl˜mate vulnerab˜l˜ty 

assessments, d˜saster r˜sk reduct˜on and 

˜ntegrated water resources management 

˜n a way that ˜s al˜gned w˜th the systemat˜c 

framework for manag˜ng r˜sk presented ˜n the 

Water safety plan manual.
 34Bu˜ld˜ng the momentum on combat˜ng 
a˜r pollut˜on
A quarter of all annual deaths are related to preventable 
environmental causes. With healthier environments, 13 
million deaths could be prevented annually. Environmental 
risk factors Œ above all air pollution Œ are driving up health 
care costs. 
The first 
WHO Global Conference on Air Pollution and 
Health
 was held in late 2018, in collaboration with United 
Nations partner organizations. Participants, including 

government ministers, called for bold and prompt action 
and recognized that actions to tackle air pollution and 
mitigate climate change can achieve combined and 
therefore substantially greater benefits. 

pollution, its health impacts and effective interventions. 

There are now 53 locations (mostly cities) and 146 million 

people involved in the network, which aims to inspire the 

public to action, share data and solutions and trigger
 alerts.
The number of cities in the Eastern Mediterranean Region 

reporting their air quality monitoring data through the WHO 

database has risen by 25%. 
Bu˜ld˜ng cl˜mate res˜l˜ent health 
systems 
A special initiative, 
Climate change and health in small 
island developing States,
 was launched by WHO at the 23rd 
Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework 

Convention on Climate Change in November 2017. 

small island developing States will be resilient to climate 

variability and change, in parallel with countries reducing 
their carbon emissions. In 2018, WHO worked with the small 

island developing States to develop a Global Action Plan to 

build evidence of the impact of climate change, empower 

the health sector to adapt, implement actions to address the 

impacts of climate change on health and increase funding. 
WHO gu˜del˜nes ˜n˚uenc˜ng country 
act˜ons
People living in cities Œ nearly half the global population Œ 
are also exposed to a range of environmental threats such 
as poor water, sanitation and waste management. Two 
global guidelines Œ on sanitation and on housing Œ were 



called for countries to make comprehensive policy 
shifts to enable everyone to have access to toilets that 
safely contain waste by 2030. For every US$1 invested 
in sanitation, WHO estimates a nearly sixfold return as 

measured by lower health costs and increased productivity. 

Some 830 000 annual diarrhoeal deaths are due to unsafe 
water, sanitation and hygiene. 
A WHO-commissioned review of mercury biomarkers 
established a global benchmark for human exposure to 

mercury. Vulnerable populations were identified, such 

as communities dependent upon fish for their diet and 

communities where mercury is used in artisanal or small-

scale gold mining (such as Ghana, Mozambique and Nigeria). 
In the European Region, the release of the Environmental 
Noise Guidelines was a key achievement. The 
WHO Asia-
Pacific Centre for Environment and Health
 was launched 
in the Western Pacific Region. 
Cross-cutt˜ng work on determ˜nants to 
get health ˜nto all pol˜c˜es
By addressing both social and environmental determinants 
as a pillar of primary health care, WHO highlighted the 

importance of multisectoral action and 
health in all 
policies 
(HiAP) at the Global Conference on Primary 


includes establishing a unit on HiAP in Saudi Arabia, 

developing a strategic plan in Burundi and implementing 

a HiAP strategy in Kenya. With UNESCO, WHO prepared a 

portfolio of promising practices in education and training 

for
 HiAP.
Further to the Commission on Equity and Health Inequalities 

in the Americas (2016), the WHO Regional Office for the 

Americas worked in consultation with ministries of health, 

indigenous peoples, Afrodescendants and other groups to 

develop a Regional Strategy and Plan of Action on Ethnicity 

and Health, which provides recommendations to inequities 

and inequalities in the Americas. 
The WHO European Health Equity Online Dataset captures 
within-country trends and current status on health equity, 

the essential conditions needed to enable people to live 

a healthy life and the policies known to increase health 

equity. Also in Europe, the WHO Action Plan for Refugee and 

Migrant Health Technical Assistance has been developed 

in response to the current crisis. Other cross-cutting work 

includes the first WHO guidelines on housing and health, 

which provide recommendations on overcrowding, indoor 

temperatures, injury hazards and other matters. 
 35 36Key ˛gures for 2018Œ2019
Amer˜cas
3678Europe
402612South-East As˜a30208Eastern Med˜terranean
30269Afr˜ca
1055529Western Pac˜˛c
28178Health Assembly-approved budget
Funds ava˜lable (as at 31 December 2018)
Expend˜tureBudget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by major o˙ce (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
Approved Programme budget: US$ 384 million
Fund available: US$ 283 million (73% of Programme
 budget)
Expenditure: US$ 133 million (35% of Programme budget, 47% of available
 resources)
Headquarters: Base
Headquarters:
 
Spec˜al Programme
11568132765926Budget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by programme (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
2101667820060801401601802002204012010068762615951088036Reproduct˜ve, maternal, 
newborn, ch˜ld and 
adolescent health 
Spec˜al Programme of 
Research, Development and 
Research Tra˜n˜ng ˜n Human 
Reproduct˜on (HRP)Age˜ng and health
Health and the env˜ronment 
Equ˜ty, soc˜al determ˜nants, 
gender equal˜ty and  human r˜ghts 512814Budget and ˜mplementat˜on
Resource levels in the Health Through the Life Course 
category amounted to 73% of the approved budget. 

However, this was somewhat unevenly spread across major 

offices. Headquarters has significantly more resources as 
compared with its budget. Specified resources were at more 

than twice the level of flexible resources (68% versus 32%). 

Levels of expenditure are much higher at headquarters 

compared with the regional and country
 levels.
 37Expend˜ture: sta˝ vs. act˜v˜ty
Expend˜ture by level
37%18%17%28%Countryo˚cesReg˜onal 
o˚cesHeadquarters
Spec˜al Programme
Headquarters
BaseAct˜v˜ty
47%53%Sta˛Top 10 voluntary contr˜butors (spec˜˚ed, base)
Funding
 source:
Flexible funding: 32% 

Of the total voluntary contributions specified, 
77% were from 10 contributors (shown
 beside)
Special Programme of Research, 
Development and Research Training 
 in Human Reproduction (HRP):
Flexible funding: 1% 

Republ˜c of KoreaUn˜ted K˜ngdom of 
Great Br˜ta˜n 
and Northern 

Ireland3%Un˜ted Nat˜ons 
Env˜ronment Programme 
(UNEP)4%8%Un˜ted States of Amer˜ca
11%B˜ll & Mel˜nda Gates 
Foundat˜on32%Norway
5%Germany8%Italy
2%Un˜ted Nat˜ons 
Populat˜on Fund 
(UNFPA)
2%Un˜ted Nat˜ons 
Development Programme 
(UNDP)2%Programme areas also show an uneven pattern in terms of 
funding and implementation. The reproductive, maternal, 

newborn, child and adolescent health programme area 

shows higher levels of both funding and implementation, 

especially at headquarters, while the equity, social 

determinants, gender equality and human rights 

programme areas show particularly low levels. Political 

commitment and sustainable corporate funding in the 

programme areas that are not attractive to donors continue 

to pose funding challenges. As a result, human resources in 

these programme areas continue to be lower than what is 

required to delivery optimally. 
Given the cross-cutting nature of Health Through the Life 

Course category of work in many instances, it has been able 

to make progress at regional and country levels through 

coordinated investment from other programme areas 

across all three levels. For example, in the reproductive, 

maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health programme 

areas, results have also been achieved in countries through 

engagement with emergency response
 work.
For further details on the Programme budget funding and 

implementation for this category, please refer to the WHO 

Programme Budget Portal (
http://open.who.int/2018-19/
our-work/category/03/about/key-figures
 and http://open.
who.int/2018-19
). 38NONCOMMUNICABLE 
DISEASESPROGRAMME AREAS
Non-
commun˜cable 
d˜seasesMental health 
and substance abuseV˜olence and  ˜njur˜es D˜sab˜l˜t˜es and rehab˜l˜tat˜on 
Nutr˜t˜onFood safety
 39Outcomes we are a˜m˜ng to ach˜eve 
˜n 2018Œ2019Ł Increased access to ˜ntervent˜ons to prevent and manage noncommun˜cable d˜seases 
and the˜r r˜sk factors
Ł Increased access to serv˜ces for mental health and substance use d˜sorders
Ł Reduced r˜sk factors and ˜mproved coverage 
w˜th ˜ntervent˜ons to prevent and manage 
un˜ntent˜onal ˜njur˜es and v˜olenceŁ Increased access to comprehens˜ve eye care, 

hear˜ng care and rehab˜l˜tat˜on serv˜ces
Ł Reduced nutr˜t˜onal r˜sk for ˜mproved health 

and well-be˜ng
Ł All countr˜es are adequately prepared to 
prevent and m˜t˜gate r˜sks to food safety
Noncommunicable diseases, injuries and mental health 
disorders are among the biggest threats to health and 
development in the
 twenty-first century. Noncommunicable 
diseases Œ primarily cardiovascular and respiratory 

diseases, cancers and diabetes Œ currently account for 

seven out of every 10 deaths worldwide (41 million), 

including 15 million ﬁprematureﬂ deaths among people 

aged between 30 and 69 years, mostly from developing 

countries. Cardiovascular diseases account for most deaths 

from noncommunicable diseases, at 18 million annually, 

while depression affects 300 million people. 
Noncommunicable diseases are the leading cause of death 
globally and a key cause of spiralling health
 costs.
Many premature deaths from noncommunicable diseases 

can be prevented or delayed through interventions in the 

four main risk areas: 
tobacco use, lack of physical activity, 
unhealthy diets, and harmful use of
 alcohol.
Early diagnosis, better access to affordable treatment, 
multisectoral actions and a whole-of-government approach 
can reduce risk factors and save lives. Without such 
interventions, there will be enormous health, economic and 

social
 consequences.
The toll from substance abuse, disability, violence and 

injuries, oral health and eye and ear health is considerable. 

Deaths from injuries are the tip of the iceberg, as numbers 

of non-fatal injuries are far higher. Road traffic accidents 

cause 1.35 million deaths but between 20 and 50 million 

injuries a
 year.
Key ach˜evements
Us˜ng the law to address health ˜ssues
An increasing number of countries are using legislation 

as a cost-effective measure in the implementation of 

interventions at population level that address tobacco use 



population is covered by at least one comprehensive 

tobacco control measure Œ a figure that has quadrupled 

from 15% in
 2007.
WHO has played a key role in enabling such legislation, 
notably since the landmark WHO Framework Convention on 
Tobacco Control came into force in 2005. Currently, many 

noncommunicable diseases rely on legal and regulatory 
reforms; some involve fiscal measures that help raise revenue. 
The focus is still on implementing the WHO Framework 

Convention on Tobacco Control through 
MPOWER. 
The 
Framework Convention
 has been a powerful tool in global 
tobacco control, resulting in legislation that has reduced 

tobacco product sales to minors and led to restrictions 

on tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship. The 

Secretariat is helping Member States to develop and enforce 

legislation, prevent tobacco industry interference, introduce 

higher taxes and plain packaging and monitor tobacco use. 
Legislating for tobacco control
Ł Technical assistance with tobacco taxation in 50 
Member States Œ in 2017 and 2018, WHO has supported 
successful initiatives in Bangladesh, the Gambia, 
Pakistan and the Philippines. Technical assistance and 
high-level advocacy have supported the formulation of 
legislation in several countries.
 Ł Georgia
 has endorsed a modern tobacco control law, 
with all three levels of WHO providing support. WHO led 
a powerful communications campaign that contributed 
to strong public support for tobacco control measures. 
Compliance with the smoke-free policy has reached over 
98% in the hospitality
 sector.
It ˜s not acceptable that people d˜e earl˜er when we know that pol˜c˜es regulat˜ng tobacco and alcohol consumpt˜on, as well as e˚ect˜ve control of h˜gh blood 
pressure, can do a lot to avo˜d these early deaths.
Dr Zsuzsanna Jakab
WHO Reg˜onal D˜rector for Europe 40Translat˜ng pol˜t˜cal comm˜tment to 
act˜on ˜n countr˜es
The political momentum generated over several years 
reached a high point in September 2018, when world 

leaders took a landmark step to combat the problem at the 

United Nations General Assembly high-level meeting 
on the prevention and control of noncommunicable 
diseases (NCDs)
. Heads of State and Government agreed 
to 16 commitments to tackle noncommunicable diseases, 
including awareness campaigns to promote healthier 

lifestyles, human papillomavirus vaccination to protect 

against cervical cancer, and treating hypertension and 

diabetes. 
World leaders agreed that their efforts should include 
policies recommended by WHO and legislative and 

regulatory measures against the risk factors, such as 

tobacco taxes and restricting alcohol advertising. Other 

commitments include halting the rise in childhood obesity, 

promoting regular physical activity, reducing air pollution, 

and improving mental health and well-being, as well as 

strengthening health systems. 
Controll˜ng hypertens˜on 
˜n Ind˜aHypertens˜on k˜lls more people ˜n Ind˜a than 
anyth˜ng else. Nearly one th˜rd of adults (200 

m˜ll˜on people) have hypertens˜on but only about 

11% have regular blood pressure checks . 
To meet the government target of a 25% reduct˜on 
˜n the prevalence of ra˜sed blood pressure, 

about 45 m˜ll˜on more people need to control 

the˜r blood pressure. In November 2017, the 

Ind˜a Hypertens˜on Management In˜t˜at˜ve was 

launched to partner the government ˜n ach˜ev˜ng 

the target. 
All three levels of WHO, led by the country o˛ce, 
have d˜rectly prov˜ded gu˜dance and tra˜n˜ng, as 

well as human and ˝nanc˜al resources, through 

collaborat˜on w˜th the Resolve to Save L˜ves 

In˜t˜at˜ve. In the ˝rst phase be˜ng carr˜ed out ˜n Ind˜a™s 
˝ve states, the Ind˜a Hypertens˜on Management 

In˜t˜at˜ve has been successful ˜n coord˜nat˜ng 

mult˜ple partners; select˜ng state-spec˜˝c 

hypertens˜on treatment protocols; recogn˜z˜ng the 

value of d˜g˜tal blood pressure dev˜ces; prov˜d˜ng 

e˚ect˜ve tra˜n˜ng; d˜str˜but˜ng med˜cat˜on to 

pat˜ents; and establ˜sh˜ng a robust ˜nformat˜on 
system. 
More than 200 000 pat˜ents have been reg˜stered 
s˜nce the launch. The programme has fac˜l˜tated 

the strengthen˜ng of the pr˜mary care system to 

equ˜p ˜t to address noncommun˜cable d˜seases. 

After n˜ne months of ˜mplementat˜on, blood 

pressure ˜s be˜ng controlled ˜n between 26% 

and 40% of adults ˜n three states Œ a s˜gn˜˝cant 

change from the or˜g˜nal 11%. The government 

plans to expand the ˜n˜t˜at˜ve to all states. 
The WHO Independent H˜gh-level Comm˜ss˜on on NCDs Œ 
set up to propose bold and ˜nnovat˜ve solut˜ons Œ ˜ncludes 

as Co-Cha˜rs the former Federal M˜n˜ster of Pak˜stan, 

Dr San˜a N˜shtar (left) and the Pres˜dent of Uruguay, 
 
Dr Tabaré Vázquez (centre). 
The Comm˜ss˜on ˜s be˜ng convened by WHO D˜rector-
General, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (r˜ght). 
Momentum is building for a 
tax on sugar-sweetened 
beverages.
 To date, 59 Member States have reported 
implementing such a tax. The countries are in all six WHO 

regions and cover all income levels, but the type and level 

of taxation, as well as the products covered, vary. 
Ł Maldives, Nepal and Viet Nam
 Œ WHO has provided 
specialized technical support to countries in economic 
modelling for the taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages 
to enable policy development, as well as for high-level 

advocacy. 
 41Also at the Un˜ted Nat˜ons H˜gh-level meet˜ng on NCDs, 
 Mr M˜chael R. Bloomberg (left) agreed to cont˜nue as 

WHO™s Global Ambassador for Noncommun˜cable 

D˜seases and Injur˜es. He w˜ll take forward ˜mportant 

˜n˜t˜at˜ves, such as bu˜ld˜ng the Partnersh˜p for Healthy 

C˜t˜es and promot˜ng ˜nvestment ˜n noncommun˜cable 

d˜seases and ˜njur˜es prevent˜on.WHO ˜s support˜ng the 
 scale up
 of some of the 
newer techn˜cal packages:
LIVE LIFE Œ to prevent su˜c˜de
INSPIRE Œ to end v˜olence 
aga˜nst ch˜ldren
HEARTS
 Œ to prevent and control 
card˜ovascular d˜seases
SAFER
 Œ to reduce harmful use of 
alcohol and related consequences
REPLACE
 Œ to el˜m˜nate ˜ndustr˜ally produced trans fats 
from the food supply
ACTIVE
 Œ to ˜ncrease phys˜cal 
act˜v˜ty
Scal˜ng up HEARTS 
One of the global public health goods produced by WHO, 
the Global Hearts Initiative
 technical package, offers 
a set of high impact, evidence-based interventions. 

WHO is supporting countries to scale up protocol-

based management, improve access to medicines and 
technologies and measure outcomes more accurately. More 
than 10 countries have started implementing HEARTS. 

Since implementation began in 2018 in India, more than 

100 000 people with hypertension are being treated under 
a standard
 protocol.
New e˚orts ˜n tackl˜ng cancer 
Cancer is a leading cause of death among children. The 
likelihood of dying from cancer is four times higher for a 

child in developing countries than in high-income countries 

because of a failure to diagnose the disease, high treatment 

costs and a lack of trained health professionals. 
The WHO Global Initiative for Childhood Cancer
, launched in September 2018, aims to double the number of 
children cured of cancer Œ to achieve a survival rate of at 

least 60% by 2030 Œ thus saving an additional one million 

lives. The Initiative will help raise awareness and encourage 

countries to prioritize tackling childhood cancer and deliver 

best practices in childhood cancer care. WHO will support 

governments in assessing their current capacities in 

cancer diagnosis and treatment. The 
WHO guide to cancer 
early diagnosis
 helps address barriers to, and delays in, 
cancer
 care.
 42Tak˜ng act˜on to address mental health

Mental Health Atlas 2017
 revealed a shortage 
of health workers trained in mental health and a lack of 
investment in community-based mental health approaches 
in many countries. Based on 2017 data, the atlas shows that 

while some countries have improved mental health policy-
making and planning, the scale up of resources is too slow 
to meet targets. 
More than 150 country profiles have been published. The 
profiles provide national snapshots of policies, plans and 

laws governing mental health facilities providing care and 

the resources
 available.
The harmful use of alcohol, drugs and tobacco can also be 

an issue, leading to risky behaviours, such as suicide, which 

is the second leading cause of death among those aged 

between 15 and 29
 years.
Specific efforts to tackle suicide Œ the most extreme 

symptom of the wider unaddressed mental health 

emergency Œ included a toolkit for suicide prevention 

activities in the community and an editorial written by the 

Director-General, Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus, and pop singer 

Lady Gaga. 
We can all help to bu˜ld commun˜t˜es that understand, respect and pr˜or˜t˜ze 
 mental wellness. We can all learn how to o˚er support to loved ones go˜ng 
 
through a d˜˛cult t˜me. And we can all be a part of a new movement Œ ˜nclud˜ng 
 
people who have faced mental ˜llness themselves Œ to call on governments 
 and ˜ndustry to put mental health at the top of the˜r agendas.
D˜rector-General, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and s˜nger Lady Gaga
co-founder of Born Th˜s Way Foundat˜on
 (wr˜t˜ng ˜n an op-ed art˜cle on mental health ˜n 
October 2018)Increas˜ng phys˜cal act˜v˜ty
The new 
WHO Global action plan on physical activity 
2018Œ2030
 shows how
 countries can reduce physical 
inactivity in adults and adolescents by 15% by 2030. It 
recommends a set of 20 policy areas for creating a more 

active society by improving the environments in which 
people live, work and play and increasing the opportunities 
and programmes suitable for people of all ages and abilities 

to walk, cycle, play sport, engage in active recreation, dance 

and play. Worldwide, one in four adults (28%) and four in 
five adolescents do not engage in enough physical activity 
to gain health benefits. 
Focus on ˜njury prevent˜on 
In 2018, WHO continued supporting countries to roll out 
the WHO technical package, 
INSPIRE: seven strategies 
for ending violence against children
. Policy dialogues 
to initiate implementation of INSPIRE were held in 23 

pathfinding countries. Capacity-building work took place in 

all regions. 
 43Increased act˜on to meet grow˜ng 
nutr˜t˜on challenges 
Jointly with FAO and other United Nations agencies, WHO is 
leading global action to improve nutrition under the United 
Nations Decade of Action on Nutrition (2016Œ2025). A 
first progress report was discussed at the United Nations 
General Assembly in 2018 and 12 countries have made 
SMART commitments on food and health system changes. 
Global and regional action networks have been established 
to control the marketing of foods to children and improve 
the nutritional labelling of food, food security and the 
food
 environment.
Uganda hosp˜tals ˜mprove 
emergency un˜ts w˜th WHO 
toolsA s˜mple set of cl˜n˜cal tra˜n˜ngs and process 
changes ˜n hosp˜tal emergency un˜ts, w˜th no new 

˜nput of mater˜al resources, has had a dramat˜c 

˜mpact on mortal˜ty. The p˜lot ˜mplementat˜on 

of four WHO bas˜c emergency care tools has 

reduced deaths from ˜njur˜es and acute cond˜t˜ons 
by 50% ˜n two d˜str˜ct hosp˜tals ˜n Uganda. The 

˜ntervent˜on, wh˜ch ˜mproves the way ˜n wh˜ch 

care ˜s del˜vered ˜n front-l˜ne emergency un˜ts by 

max˜m˜z˜ng ex˜st˜ng resources, ˜s e˚ect˜ve, s˜mple 

and low-cost. It w˜ll be scaled up nat˜onally as part 

of an overall reform of the health sector.˙
Parent˜ng programmes 
prevent v˜olence ˜n 
 South Afr˜ca
In South Afr˜ca, a low-cost parent˜ng programme 
reduced the abuse of teenagers by the˜r parents and 

careg˜vers. The programme, Parent˜ng for l˜felong 

health (PLH), was led by WHO and partners. It ˜s 

now be˜ng scaled up ˜n at least e˜ght countr˜es ˜n 

Afr˜ca. Th˜s ˜s the ˝rst ever parent˜ng programme 

wh˜ch ˜s non-commerc˜al, low-cost, targeted to 

fam˜l˜es w˜th teenagers, and has been adapted and 

tested ˜n low- and m˜ddle-˜ncome sett˜ngs. 
Parent˜ng programmes are e˚ect˜ve ˜n reduc˜ng 

ch˜ld maltreatment, but unt˜l recently ev˜dence 

was restr˜cted to h˜gh-˜ncome countr˜es. Ex˜st˜ng 

parent˜ng programmes are expens˜ve Œ they are 

generally l˜cenced commerc˜al products and 

expens˜ve to ˜mplement. 
Several years ago, WHO and partners started PLH 
to create free, low resource parent˜ng programmes 

to prevent and reduce ch˜ld maltreatment. The 

programme ˜s based on manuals and del˜vered 

by tra˜ned commun˜ty members. The approach 

was p˜loted and tested ˜n a cluster random˜zed 

control tr˜al ˜nvolv˜ng 552 fam˜l˜es ˜n 40 v˜llages 

˜n the Eastern Cape Prov˜nce, South Afr˜ca, where 

stud˜es show h˜gh rates of fam˜ly conˆ˜ct and 

v˜olence aga˜nst adolescents. PHL proved e˚ect˜ve: fam˜l˜es who had rece˜ved 
the parent˜ng programme had fewer cases of 

abuse and phys˜cal pun˜shment; enhanced 

parent˜ng and parental superv˜s˜on; ˜mproved 

econom˜c welfare and ˝nanc˜al management; 

and better fam˜ly plann˜ng.˙ Currently, PLH has 

manuals for teens and young ch˜ldren. The 

programme ˜s be˜ng rolled out as part of the 

INSPIRE techn˜cal package, wh˜ch o˚ers seven 

strateg˜es for end˜ng v˜olence aga˜nst ch˜ldren.
WHO is supporting the mainstreaming of essential 
nutrition interventions in primary health care. Nutrient 

profiling systems and guiding principles for front-of-pack 

labelling have been devised to facilitate the development 

of marketing and labelling policies. WHO has also provided 

technical support to 20 countries for the management of 

complicated cases of acute
 malnutrition.Mak˜ng the food supply safer
The WHO/FAO International Food 
Safety Authorities Network 

(INFOSAN)
 was integral to 
the response to several 

large-scale food safety 

events in 2017/2018. They 

included the largest ever 

outbreak of listeriosis 

in South Africa linked to 

contaminated ready-to-eat 

meat, which caused more than 

1000 cases of the disease and 

200 deaths. Detailed information on 

ready-to-eat meat product batches that had been exported 

to 15 countries was communicated through the network. 

This enabled the importing countries to take swift action 

to recall them, thereby avoiding exposing consumers to 

potentially unsafe food. 
The Network encourages greater international cooperation 
by supporting Member States with the management of food 

safety
 risks.
WHO developed and published 
Strengthening 
surveillance of, and response to, foodborne diseases: 

a practical manual
 to assist countries to integrate 
foodborne disease surveillance and response activities into 

existing national surveillance and response systems, as 

required by the International Health Regulations (2005).
 44Ł the launch in 2018 of 

 the 
first ever global platform for collecting standardized 
data on burn victims. Burns account for an estimated 
180 000 deaths a year and many other injuries; 
Ł the Global status report on road safety 2018 
Œ funded by Bloomberg Philanthropies Œ provides further 
evidence on a growing problem, as well as a tool for 

advocating solutions and concrete actions to tackle the 

situation and save lives; 
Ł the release of a web-based open-access training course 

on trauma care for front-line health-care providers, 

dealing with acute illness and injury with limited 

resources. WHO launched the 
Global Emergency and 
Trauma Care Initiative
 to scale up emergency care; 
Global public health goods produced by WHO in 2018, which 

provide useful guidance, information and evidence in the 

area of noncommunicable diseases and conditions, include:
Ł the launch of a new WHO web portal that provides 

country-specific data on investment opportunities for 

scaling up interventions to address noncommunicable 
diseases. The tool shows a set of policies that provide 
the greatest cost benefit for tackling noncommunicable 
diseases; 
Ł the launch of the new 
WHO global status report on 
alcohol and health.

governments take practical steps to reduce the harmful 

use of alcohol and its consequences; 
New e-bike standards in China
Non-standard 
e-bikes will be 
phased out 

Now an 
estimated 
200 millione-bikes
Need
 for 
new 
standards
 and stringent implementation
 measures
 New standard 
e-bike = 
not faster 
than 25 km/hSAFER ROADS FOR 
EVERYONE
Provided best practice
 from around the world
Worked with media to 
highlight the causal relationship 
between 
e-bike speeds and 
accidentsAdvocated for change
What WHO did: Old standards 
from 1999
on what an e-bike is
Suboptimal enforcement
 of the standards
Loophole
 that allowed 
non-standard e-bikes
 to be on the road using bike lanes 
and footpaths
 designed 
for e-bikes, bikes and 
pedestrians
 45Ł support provided to countries in implementing 
the Model Disability Survey,
 which provides 
comprehensive information about the distribution of 

disability in a country or region and identifies unmet 

needs; andŁ the issue jointly by WHO and ITU of a new 
international 
standard for devices such as smartphones
 to make 
them safer for listening. More than 1 billion young people 

(nearly 50% of people aged 12Œ35 years) are at risk of 

hearing loss due to prolonged and excessive exposure to 

loud sounds.
New e-bike standards in China
Non-standard 
e-bikes will be 
phased out 

Now an 
estimated 
200 millione-bikes
Need
 for 
new 
standards
 and stringent implementation
 measures
 New standard 
e-bike = 
not faster 
than 25 km/hSAFER ROADS FOR 
EVERYONE
Provided best practice
 from around the world
Worked with media to 
highlight the causal relationship 
between 
e-bike speeds and 
accidentsAdvocated for change
What WHO did: Old standards 
from 1999
on what an e-bike is
Suboptimal enforcement
 of the standards
Loophole
 that allowed 
non-standard e-bikes
 to be on the road using bike lanes 
and footpaths
 designed 
for e-bikes, bikes and 
pedestrians
 46Key ˛gures for 2018Œ2019
Approved Programme budget: US$ 351 million
Fund available: US$ 237 million (68% of Programme
 budget)
Expenditure: US$ 115 million (33% of Programme budget, 49% of available
 resources)
Budget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by programme (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
1781235920060801401601802004012010047341630221017136Noncommun˜cable d˜seases
Mental health and 
 substance abuseV˜olence and ˜njur˜esD˜sab˜l˜ty and rehab˜l˜tat˜onNutr˜t˜onFood safety47301632158Headquarters
12510553Amer˜cas
33109Europe
352612South-East As˜a282110Eastern Med˜terranean
30166Afr˜ca
612612Western Pac˜˛c
393313Health Assembly-approved budget
Funds ava˜lable (as at 31 December 2018)
Expend˜tureBudget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by major o˛ce (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
Budget and ˜mplementat˜on
Available funding is 68% of the approved budget, which is 
the lowest among all categories. Future funding remains 

a critical concern, especially in programme areas such 

as Food safety (47% of the approved level) and Nutrition 

(64% of the approved level). Global expenditure in 
Noncommunicable diseases was US$ 115 million or only 

33% of the approved budget level, which is also the lowest 

among all categories. This could be a reflection of low level 

of financing.
The proportion of flexible funding of the total funding in 

noncommunicable diseases is relatively high, compared 
 47with specified funding (42% versus 58%, respectively). This 
reflects the efforts of the Organization to align resources 

to the priorities of Member States despite being less 

attractive to donors. In some cases, the late arrival of major 

voluntary contributions has delayed implementation in 

2018. Despite these challenges, significant progress has 

been made in some areas, especially in addressing risk 

factors for noncommunicable diseases. Implementation is 

a challenge in both the African and Eastern Mediterranean 

Regions. In country offices that have chronic resource 

limitations, implementation had been augmented through 

different sources and measures, such as engagement with 
national governments, WHO collaborating centres and other 

partners, and building synergies between programmes, 

especially at the country level. This explains why even 

in those areas facing implementation challenges, good 

progress has been achieved to deliver the work in some 

areas in noncommunicable diseases. 
For further details on the Programme budget funding and 
implementation for this category, please refer to the WHO 

Programme Budget Portal (
http://open.who.int/2018-19/
our-work/category/02/about/key-figures
 and http://open.
who.int/2018-19).
Top 10 voluntary contr˜butors (spec˜˝ed)
Expend˜ture: sta˚ vs. act˜v˜ty
Expend˜ture by level
Funding
 source:
Flexible funds: 42% 


Of the total voluntary contributions specified, 
68% were from 10 contributors (shown
 beside)
CDC Foundat˜on3%Republ˜c of Korea4%8%V˜tal Strateg˜es
Un˜ted States of Amer˜ca
11%Bloomberg 
Fam˜ly 
Foundat˜on15%45%24%31%Countryo˚cesReg˜onal 
o˚cesHeadquarters
Russ˜an Federat˜on
6%Germany5%Austral˜a
2%New Zealand2%12%B˜ll & 
Mel˜nda Gates Foundat˜onAct˜v˜ty
41%59%Sta˛ 48COMMUNICABLE 
DISEASESPROGRAMME AREAS
HIV and 
 hepat˜t˜sTuberculos˜s
Malar˜aNeglected 
 trop˜cal 
 d˜seasesVacc˜ne-
 preventable 
d˜seasesAnt˜m˜crob˜al 
res˜stance
 49Historic progress has been made to reduce the global 
burden from communicable diseases, but they still remain 
a major challenge. Despite being preventable or treatable, 
these ﬁdiseases of povertyﬂ kill more than 4
 million people a 
year and impede social and economic
 development.
Recent reports indicate that the current pace of progress 

is insufficient to achieve the set targets. There needs to be 

focused action
 on:Ł high-impact communicable diseases, including efforts to 

reach vulnerable and marginalized
 populations;Ł high-quality immunization services, as part of an 
integrated, people-centred platform for disease 
prevention; and
Ł antimicrobial resistance, working on raising awareness, 
global surveillance, optimal use of medicines and 

research and
 development.
By focusing on those most affected and most at risk, 

zeroing into overlooked areas and scaling up innovation, 
we go far beyond controlling these diseases: we will also 
address long-standing issues such as health systems 
strengthening, while also delivering on the goals of 

equity, human rights and the expansion of universal 

health
 coverage.
Key ach˜evements
Grow˜ng success ˜n d˜sease 
el˜m˜nat˜on
The world is at a unique point in the history of 
communicable diseases where elimination and eradication 

have become feasible targets. We are poised to put 

crippling diseases such as dracunculiasis (guinea-worm 

disease) behind us. In 2018, only 28 cases of dracunculiasis 

were reported. The final hurdle to elimination may lie in 

the infestation with guinea worm of dogs in Chad. Yaws, 

a disfiguring, painful and debilitating childhood disease 
that infected 50
 million children in the 1950s, is also set 
for eradication, with some countries on track to interrupt 



lessons for
 others.
While complete eradication is a rare achievement, 

elimination Œ the reduction to zero of new cases of 

disease or infection in a defined geographical area Œ is a 

relatively feasible target for many diseases now. In 2012, 

a WHO road map set ambitious targets to eliminate 17 

neglected tropical diseases. Progress picked up following 

WHO-negotiated drug donations by pharmaceutical 

companies. In 2018, as in the previous three years, 
about 1 billion people were treated. WHO coordinates the 


role in delivering free, quality-assured drugs Œ which may 


people cannot be
 overstated.
Outcomes we are a˜m˜ng to ach˜eve 
 ˜n 2018Œ2019Ł Increased access to key ˜ntervent˜ons for 
people l˜v˜ng w˜th HIV and v˜ral hepat˜t˜s
Ł Un˜versal access to qual˜ty tuberculos˜s care 
˜n l˜ne w˜th the End TB Strategy
Ł Increased access of populat˜ons at r˜sk to prevent˜ve ˜ntervent˜ons, d˜agnost˜c 
con˚rmat˜on of malar˜a and ˚rst-l˜ne 

ant˜malar˜al treatmentŁ Increased and susta˜ned access to neglected 
trop˜cal d˜sease control ˜ntervent˜ons
Ł Increased vacc˜nat˜on coverage for hard-to-
reach populat˜ons and commun˜t˜esŁ All countr˜es have essent˜al capac˜ty to 
respond to ant˜m˜crob˜al res˜stanceTo end the scourge of ˜nfect˜ous d˜seases, prevent˜on, 
early detect˜on and treatment must be ava˜lable to 
everyone, everywhere.
Dr Poonam Khetrapal S˜ngh
WHO Reg˜onal D˜rector for South-East As˜a 50On track for el˜m˜nat˜on of 
lymphat˜c ˚lar˜as˜s
In 2018, Egypt, Palau, V˜et Nam and the Wall˜s 
and Futuna Islands were val˜dated for el˜m˜nat˜ng 

lymphat˜c ˚lar˜as˜s, a pa˜nful and profoundly 

d˜s˚gur˜ng d˜sease. Some 36˛m˜ll˜on people st˜ll 

have chron˜c d˜sease man˜festat˜ons.
More than 800˛m˜ll˜on people requ˜re mass drug 
adm˜n˜strat˜on to stop the spread of the ˜nfect˜on. 

Samoa became the ˚rst country to ˜mplement 

the new WHO-recommended tr˜ple drug reg˜men 

for treatment of lymphat˜c ˚lar˜as˜s. Annual 

mass treatment of the ent˜re el˜g˜ble populat˜on 
began ˜n 2018, w˜th school and house v˜s˜ts. WHO 

prov˜ded techn˜cal and ˚nanc˜al support.
Prel˜m˜nary results show a h˜gh coverage of 
more than 90% of the el˜g˜ble populat˜on of Sava˜˜ 

Island. Follow˜ng the success of th˜s year™s mass 

drug treatment, the country w˜ll be declared free 

of lymphat˜c ˚lar˜as˜s.
The road ahead to ending the epidemics of AIDS and 
tuberculosis by 2030 (United Nations Sustainable 

Development Goal (SDG) target 3.3), is more challenging. 

For malaria, although progress in high-burden countries has 

levelled off, some low burden countries are moving quickly 

towards
 elimination.Elimination Œ now a growing reality in many
 countries:
Ł Lymphatic filariasis
 Œ eliminated as a public health 
problem in 14
 countries, with seven other countries 
working towards
 elimination;Ł Trachoma
 Œ eight countries have achieved elimination 
as a public health problem, while the disease is still a 
public health problem in 36
 countries;
Ł Onchocerciasis
 Œ WHO has verified elimination of 
transmission in four countries in the Americas, and 
transmission has been eliminated in subnational foci 

in three additional countries. Transmission is ongoing 

in sub-Saharan Africa, Yemen and one focus in the 

Americas; and
Ł Human African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness)
 Œ with historically low case numbers reported (1446 in 

2017), the 2020 target of elimination as a public health 

problem is
 achievable.
The end of the road for yaws
Yaws is a chronic and 
debilitating bacterial infection. 
It is found primarily in poor communities in warm, humid and tropical forest areas of 


where the majority of 
affected populations, 
mostly children
, live at the ﬁend of the roadﬂ, 

far from health services. 
Eradication
Treponema
pertenuebacteriaRole and achievements 
of WHODeveloped eradication strategy 
Support health ministries to 
implement strategy 
Support operational research to 



Secure donations of azithromycin 

Advocacy and partnership 

Develop health and hygiene 
education material
 Integrated 
surveillance 
and testingScreening also targets 
other skin diseases -Buruli ulcer, leprosy 
and scabies. Strategy
Treat all endemic 
communitiesTreat all active 
clinical cases and their contacts90% coverage
66 000 cases in 2018
In 2018  
EMS-WHO agreement
  153 million tablets of azithromycin 
to be donated over 5 years to treat 
51 million people
Endemic in15 countries Between 2013-2018 
WHO provided more 
than 85 000 rapid diagnostic 
tests Zero 
transmission
 51Advanc˜ng towards  
trachoma el˜m˜nat˜on
Trachoma puts more than 150˛m˜ll˜on people at 
r˜sk of bl˜ndness ˜n 41˛countr˜es. Internat˜onal 
e˝orts to el˜m˜nate trachoma as a bl˜nd˜ng 

d˜sease are based on the strategy developed by 

WHO Œ a comb˜nat˜on of ˜ntervent˜ons known by 

the acronym SAFE, wh˜ch stands for surgery for 

tr˜ch˜as˜s (˜nturned eyelashes), ant˜b˜ot˜cs, fac˜al 

cleanl˜ness and env˜ronmental ˜mprovement. 

These ˜ntervent˜ons w˜ll be commun˜ty-targeted 

and w˜ll seek commun˜ty ˜nvolvement through the 

pr˜mary health care approach.
Results are be˜ng demonstrated ˜n countr˜es. In 
May, Nepal was val˜dated for hav˜ng el˜m˜nated 

trachoma as a publ˜c health problem. Nepal 

stepped up e˝orts to el˜m˜nate the d˜sease ˜n 
2002. By 2005, the prevalence of act˜ve trachoma 

had fallen by 40%. Eye hosp˜tals and dozens of 

eye cl˜n˜cs w˜th tra˜ned sta˝ were set up. About 

30˛000 eyel˜d operat˜ons were performed and 

15˛m˜ll˜on doses of ant˜b˜ot˜cs d˜str˜buted, w˜th 

help from partners. Ghana and Iran (the Islam˜c 

Republ˜c of) also el˜m˜nated trachoma ˜n 2018, 

wh˜le Mex˜co el˜m˜nated trachoma ˜n 2017.
Decades of work on new drug for r˜ver 
bl˜ndness pay o˚
In June 2018, moxidectin was approved by the United 
States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as the first new 
treatment for onchocerciasis (river blindness) in 20
 years. 
The Special Programme for Research and Training in 
Tropical Diseases
 (TDR) conducted nearly two decades 
of research in collaboration with partners on moxidectin, 

which studies show to be superior to the current drug 

ivermectin. This is a critical milestone for onchocerciasis 

control and elimination. The FDA also awarded a priority 
review voucher, a mechanism to support drug development 
for neglected diseases. Observers say this was a model use 
of the mechanism, which speeds up approval and enables 

funds to be raised by selling the voucher, which can then be 

used in the review of a different
 product.
The end of the road for yaws
Yaws is a chronic and 
debilitating bacterial infection. 
It is found primarily in poor communities in warm, humid and tropical forest areas of 


where the majority of 
affected populations, 
mostly children
, live at the ﬁend of the roadﬂ, 

far from health services. 
Eradication
Treponema
pertenuebacteriaRole and achievements 
of WHODeveloped eradication strategy 
Support health ministries to 
implement strategy 
Support operational research to 



Secure donations of azithromycin 

Advocacy and partnership 

Develop health and hygiene 
education material
 Integrated 
surveillance 
and testingScreening also targets 
other skin diseases -Buruli ulcer, leprosy 
and scabies. Strategy
Treat all endemic 
communitiesTreat all active 
clinical cases and their contacts90% coverage
66 000 cases in 2018
In 2018  
EMS-WHO agreement
  153 million tablets of azithromycin 
to be donated over 5 years to treat 
51 million people
Endemic in15 countries Between 2013-2018 
WHO provided more 
than 85 000 rapid diagnostic 
tests Zero 
transmission
 52Global trends ˜n the number of deaths from 
tuberculos˜s, 2000Œ2017
Ga˜n˜ng momentum ˜n the ˛ght 
aga˜nst tuberculos˜s
Participants in the first 
United Nations High-level 
meeting on the fight to end tuberculosis, 
held in New 
York
 in September 2018, endorsed an ambitious and 
powerful declaration to accelerate progress towards End TB 
and adopt bold new targets for
 2022.
WHO high-level missions with partners to high-burden 
countries including India, Mongolia, Pakistan, the 
Philippines and Viet Nam have helped to sustain the 
momentum. In many countries, national accountability 
bodies have been established, in keeping with the 
declaration of the High-level meeting. Work on the 
multisectoral accountability framework was continued 
alongside its implementation in countries, as requested by 
Member States.
Greater progress is possible even in resource-constrained 
low- and middle-income countries, as exemplified by 

the significant progress seen in reducing the burden 

of tuberculosis in the Western Pacific Region, where 
23
 million people were successfully treated. Several African 
countries also recorded impressive declines in incidences 

of tuberculosis.
Drug-resistant tuberculosis continues to constitute a public 

health crisis. In 2017, over half a million people developed 

tuberculosis that was resistant to rifampicin, the most 

effective first-line drug, and of these, 82% had multidrug-
resistant
 tuberculosis (MDR-TB). Only one in four affected 
people with MDR-TB are currently being detected and even 

fewer are treated successfully. 
In 2018, to address this challenge and improve 
treatment outcomes for MDR-TB patients, WHO released 

new consolidated treatment guidelines for MDR-TB, 

recommending a shift to fully oral regimens. This new 

treatment course is more effective and less likely to 

provoke adverse side effects. WHO recommends backing 

up treatment with active monitoring of drug safety and 

counselling support to help patients complete their course 

of treatment.
Between 2000 and 2017, 
54˛m˜ll˜on l˜ves 
saved 
from tuberculos˜s




WHO is also contributing to shaping the tuberculosis 
research agenda. In 2018, WHO initiated the development 

of a global strategy for research and innovation on 

tuberculosis, as requested by Member States. A road map 

for the development of this strategy is in line with the 

research commitments of the political declaration of the 

High-level
 meeting.
Shaded areas represent uncertainty
 intervals.
Global trends ˜n est˜mated tuberculos˜s ˜nc˜dence  
rate, 2000Œ2017
Shaded areas represent uncertainty
 intervals.
 53Gett˜ng back on track to reduce the 
malar˜a burden
As the 
World malaria report 2018
 notes, progress is 
insufficient to meet two critical targets of the Global 
Technical Strategy for Malaria 2016Œ2030: reductions of 

at least 40% in global malaria cases and deaths compared 

with 2015 levels. Without making headway in the highest-

burden countries, where 70% of global malaria cases occur, 

the global community will begin to miss key milestones. 
In response, the Director-General called for an aggressive 
new approach to accelerate progress. Health ministries 
have been working with WHO and partners on the high 
burden to high impact approach. Launched in November 
2018, this is a country-driven response in which appropriate 
mixes of interventions are scaled up using accessible and 
affordable front-line services. WHO will support countries in 
establishing evidence-based strategic
 plans.
Ind˜a partners pr˜vate 
sector to ˚ght tuberculos˜s
Ind˜a accounts for about one quarter of the world™s burden of tuberculos˜s. In 2017, 2.7˛m˜ll˜on people 

fell ˜ll w˜th the d˜sease; of these, a stagger˜ng 

number Œ almost 1˛m˜ll˜on Œ m˜ssed out on access 

to h˜gh-qual˜ty care. It ˜s thought that many of 

those concerned accessed care ˜n the pr˜vate 

sector, wh˜ch ˜s often the ˚rst po˜nt of care for 

people w˜th tuberculos˜s. To address th˜s ˜ssue, 

Ind˜a has pr˜or˜t˜zed greater engagement w˜th 
the pr˜vate sector over the last three years, ˜n l˜ne 

w˜th the WHO End TB strategy. Th˜s has brought 

substant˜ve ga˜ns ˜n clos˜ng gaps ˜n not˜˚cat˜ons. 
A key contr˜butor to th˜s e˝ort has been an 
˜nnovat˜ve pr˜vate sector engagement project 

that was successfully p˜loted ˜n three c˜t˜es Œ 

Mehsana, Mumba˜ and Patna Œ w˜th techn˜cal 

ass˜stance from WHO. Lessons from th˜s approach 

are now be˜ng scaled up through the Jo˜nt E˝orts 

for El˜m˜nat˜on of Tuberculos˜s (JEET) ˜n˜t˜at˜ve, 

w˜th the support of the Global Fund to F˜ght AIDS, 

Tuberculos˜s and Malar˜a.
WHO ˜s closely engaged ˜n the ˜mplementat˜on of 
the ˜n˜t˜at˜ve, prov˜d˜ng h˜gh-level pol˜t˜cal and 

adm˜n˜strat˜ve support as well as coord˜nat˜on, 

superv˜s˜on and mon˜tor˜ng. Techn˜cal ass˜stance 

was prov˜ded by WHO for develop˜ng and 

deploy˜ng tools, pol˜cy opt˜ons and gu˜del˜nes, as 

well as a d˜g˜tal platform for not˜˚cat˜on.
In 2018, through the JEET ˜n˜t˜at˜ve:
Ł an add˜t˜onal 57˛949 health fac˜l˜t˜es have been 
mapped, of wh˜ch 13 504 have been engaged
Ł a total of 819 ﬁ coord˜nat˜on ﬁhubsﬂ (health 

fac˜l˜t˜es w˜th doctors, pharmac˜sts and X-ray 

serv˜ces) were createdŁ a total of 114 cont˜nu˜ng med˜cal educat˜on 

sess˜ons have been held to bolster not˜˚cat˜ons.
Th˜s has prompted 165˛739 not˜˚cat˜ons from the 

pr˜vate sector.
The JEET target ˜s to not˜fy an add˜t˜onal 
1.6˛m˜ll˜on pat˜ents over three years.
E-2020: support˜ng countr˜es ˜n gett˜ng 
to zero malar˜a ˜nc˜dence by 2020
A special WHO initiative, E-2020, is supporting 21 malaria-
eliminating countries in getting to zero malaria incidence 

by 2020. In 2018, Paraguay and Uzbekistan achieved 


to 19 the number of countries in the European Region that 
have received this WHO certification. The Region as a whole 
has been declared as having interrupted indigenous malaria 

transmission. 
Costa Rica, one of 21
 countries identified by WHO as 
having the potential to eliminate malaria by 2020, reduced 
cases of indigenous malaria Œ transmission of the malaria 

it has received an award from the Pan American Health 
Organization (PAHO) in recognition of the strides it has 
made. Notably, no one has died from malaria in Costa Rica 
since 2009. 
As part of the 
WHO framework for malaria elimination,
 WHO supports ministries of health in developing a 
technically sound national malaria strategy. Through 
regular country visits, WHO has assisted governments in 
their efforts to strengthen national capacities to combat 

the disease and monitor disease trends. Globally, a total 
of 36
 countries and territories have received the WHO 
certification. Ten more countries are on track to eliminate 
malaria by
 2020.
 54Address˜ng malar˜a among 
m˜ners ˜n Sur˜name
Sur˜name ˜s mov˜ng closer to el˜m˜nat˜ng malar˜a. 
W˜th support from WHO and other partners, the 

country has reduced the number of ˜nd˜genous 

cases of malar˜a by 98% s˜nce 2010; 40˛cases 

were reported ˜n 2017. In 2017 and 2018, the 

Reg˜onal O˙ce for the Amer˜cas/PAHO ass˜sted 

w˜th an external rev˜ew of the surve˜llance system 

and strateg˜c plan as well as help˜ng to develop 

a new el˜m˜nat˜on plan unt˜l 2022. In the new 

plan, ˜ntegrated health serv˜ces w˜ll be prov˜ded 

for the m˜grant populat˜on ˜n m˜n˜ng areas. 

Often undocumented and ˜nvolved ˜n ˜llegal gold 

m˜n˜ng, they frequently res˜de ˜n areas d˜˙cult 

to access, and therefore have l˜m˜ted access to 

health serv˜ces.
Improv˜ng ch˜ld health 
˜n remote N˜ger˜an 
commun˜t˜es
Integrated commun˜ty case management (˜CCM) ˜s 
a cost-e˝ect˜ve strategy that engages commun˜ty 

health workers l˜v˜ng ˜n hard-to-reach areas 

to d˜agnose and treat three deadly but curable 

˜llnesses: malar˜a, pneumon˜a and d˜arrhoea. 

WHO, w˜th Government of Canada fund˜ng support, 

has brought ˜CCM to remote commun˜t˜es ˜n sub-
Saharan Afr˜ca w˜th a h˜gh d˜sease burden. 
W˜th med˜c˜nes suppl˜ed through the WHO Rap˜d 
Access Expans˜on (RAcE)
 programme, commun˜ty 
health workers d˜agnose and treat ch˜ldren under 

the age of 5˛years for the three k˜ller d˜seases Œ 

malar˜a, pneumon˜a and d˜arrhoea Œ that cause 

54% of ch˜ld deaths ˜n N˜ger˜a. 
ﬁThe programme ˜s un˜que because ˜t ˜nvolves 
both the commun˜ty and the health systemﬂ, says 

Dr˛Abosede R.˛Aden˜ran, d˜rector of fam˜ly health at 

the N˜ger˜an Federal M˜n˜stry of Health. ﬁIn N˜ger 

and Ab˜a States, we now have local ev˜dence that 

th˜s ˜s the way to go, as ˜t relates to address˜ng 

the unacceptably h˜gh under-5 mortal˜ty rate 

˜n N˜ger˜a.ﬂJumpstart˜ng progress aga˜nst 
malar˜a ˜n 11 h˜gh-burden countr˜es
WHO, in collaboration with the RBM Partnership to End 
Malaria, has catalysed a new approach to jumpstart 

progress against malaria in the countries that carry the 

highest burden of the disease. This approach Œ called 
high 
burden to high impact 
Œ rests on four
 pillars:
Ł galvanizing political attention to reduce malaria deaths
Ł driving impact through the strategic use of data
Ł improving global guidance, policies and strategies
Ł implementing a coordinated country
 response.
ﬁHigh burden to high impactﬂ (previously referred to as the 
ﬁ10+1ﬂ initiative) builds on the principle that no
 one should 
die from a disease that is preventable and treatable. It is 
led, initially, by 11
 countries Œ 10 in sub-Saharan Africa 
(Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Democratic Republic of the 
Congo, Ghana, Mali, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Uganda 
and United Republic of Tanzania) plus India. These high-
burden countries are home to an estimated 151
 million 
cases of malaria and 275
 000 deaths, which together 
account for 70% of the global disease burden. Lessons 

learned in this first group of countries will be applied, over 
time, to all countries with high rates of transmission of 
the disease.
Trends ˜n malar˜a case ˜nc˜dence rate, globally 
and by WHO reg˜on, 2010Œ2017 
AFR: WHO African Region; AMR: WHO Region of the Americas; EMR: WHO Eastern 
Mediterranean Region; SEAR: WHO South-East Asia Region; WHO: World Health 
Organization; WPR: WHO Western Pacific Region. 
The European Region has reported zero indigenous cases since
 2015.
(a)Case ˜nc˜dence per 1000  populat˜on at r˜skCase ˜nc˜dence per 1000  populat˜on at r˜sk(b)300AFRWorld200100025015050201020112012201320142015201620171520514.87.07.32.510020102011201220132014201520162017EMRAMRWPRSEAR219.459.1 55WHO lead˜ng the health sector 
response ˜n HIV and hepat˜t˜s
During 2018, WHO released several new landmark policies 
and guidelines, developed with
 partners:
Ł improved HIV and hepatitis treatments, with guidance 

on the use of dolutegravir and raltegravir, as well as 

changes to first-line and second-line antiretroviral 

therapy (ART);
Ł innovative testing and diagnosis, including HIV 

self-testing;
Ł paediatric testing and treatment and accelerated 

prevention, including pre-exposure prophylaxis for
 HIV.
HIV ﬁtreat allﬂ pol˜cy 
success ˜n Braz˜l
In 2018, the Government of Braz˜l announced the 
largest reduct˜on ever ˜n AIDS-related deaths 

˜n the country, as a result of Braz˜l™s pol˜cy 

for greater access to HIV prevent˜on, test˜ng, 

treatment and care. 
A report by the Braz˜l˜an M˜n˜stry of Health shows 
that, between 2014 and 2017, HIV-related deaths 

fell by 16.5% thanks to the ˜mplementat˜on of 

the country™s ﬁtreat allﬂ pol˜cy, expanded HIV 

test˜ng and faster l˜nkages between test˜ng and 

treatment serv˜ces. These programmes also led 

to a reduct˜on ˜n AIDS cases Œ from 21.7˛cases per 

100˛000 populat˜on ˜n 2012 to 18.3˛cases ˜n 2017.
Braz˜l ˜s one of the lead˜ng countr˜es ˜n 
the ˜mplementat˜on of WHO™s ﬁtreat allﬂ 

recommendat˜ons, wh˜ch were launched globally 

˜n 2016. As of m˜d-2018, the pol˜cy had been 

adopted ˜n 84% of all low- and m˜ddle-˜ncome 

countr˜es, ˜nclud˜ng 100% of the ﬁfast-trackﬂ 

countr˜es Braz˜l, as a tra˜lblazer ˜n the HIV 

response, had ˜n˜t˜ated the pol˜cy ˜n 2013, and has 

s˜nce ach˜eved cons˜derable ˜mpact ˜n ˜mprov˜ng 

the health and well-be˜ng of people l˜v˜ng w˜th HIV.
In add˜t˜on to the drop ˜n AIDS deaths, the 
˜mplementat˜on of the ﬁtreat allﬂ pol˜cy ˜n Braz˜l 

has ˜mproved HIV d˜agnos˜s rates and reduced 

the mean t˜me-lapse between d˜agnos˜s and 
treatment ˜n˜t˜at˜on. Braz˜l has also ˜mplemented 

a nat˜onal HIV self-test˜ng programme targeted at 

key populat˜ons and people us˜ng pre-exposure 

prophylax˜s (PrEP) for prevent˜on, as part of a 

comb˜nat˜on prevent˜on strategy.
Implement˜ng HIV catch-up plans ˜n 
Afr˜ca
WHO is providing financial and human resources to help 
countries develop and implement their catch-up plans 

for the response to HIV, based on the WHO guidelines 

for preventing and treating HIV and other evidence-

informed
 strategies.
Several countries were supported in 2018 in various 

areas, including decentralization of services to districts 
strengthening the supply management system and 
developing a strategic plan for treatment and development 
of a one-year roadmap for treatment
 programmes.
WHO continues to closely monitor the implementation 
of the catch-up plans, meeting regularly with countries 
and technical partners and ensuring that data collection 
and analysis provide high-quality information for 
decision-making.
Number of new HIV ˜nfect˜ons
0.511.522.533.54200020092017M˜ll˜ons
Shading represents upper and lower estimates
Coverage w˜th ant˜retrov˜ral therapy
20102011201220132014201520162017Females adults (15+)
Males adults (15+)
1002030405060
7080100Percentage
Vertical dotted lines represent lower and upper estimates
 56Considerable progress has been made with the WHO 
treat 
all policy to offer ART to any person with HIV regardless 
of CD4 count. Most countries are now following this policy 
guidance, and monitoring of implementation is routine. 

All Member States have adapted the policy in the Western 
Pacific Region, and almost 1
 million people now receive ART 
in the Region; in the Region of the Americas, 22 Member 

States are following the policy; in the African Region, the 

focus is now on implementation at the district
 level.
Thanks to ART, the number of AIDS-related deaths is the 
lowest this century, with fewer than 1
 million people dying 
each year from AIDS-related
 illnesses.
In the African Region, more than three in five people are 

accessing life-saving ART and 93% of pregnant women 

living with HIV received
 ART.
More ch˜ldren than ever ˜mmun˜zed 
Immunization is a core 

building block of strong 

primary health care 

and universal health 

coverage, providing a 

point of contact for health 

care at the beginning 

of life and throughout 

the life-course. It 

is the intervention 

with the widest and 

broadest reach, with an 

immunization programme 

in every country of 

the world.
Worldwide, about 123
 million infants Œ nine in 10 infants Œ
 were immunized with at least one dose of diphtheria-

tetanus-pertussis (DTP) vaccine in 2017, according to 


(UNICEF). An additional 4.6
 million infants were vaccinated 
globally in 2017, compared with 2010 but, because of 

population growth, global coverage with three doses of DTP 

(DTP3) has remained at 85% since
 2015.
WHO is supporting countries by strengthening 

immunization systems and access through policy, 

strategy and tools, as well as building trust, confidence 

and community demand for vaccination. Success stories 

include the elimination of measles in the Democratic 


Today, only 13
 countries still have to eliminate neonatal 
tetanus. There has also been an increase in coverage of the 

second-dose of measles vaccine, with global coverage now 

at 67% compared with 39% in
 2010.
Reduc˜ng the hepat˜t˜s 
burden ˜n Mongol˜a and 
Pak˜stan
Mongol˜a has one of the h˜ghest rates ˜n the world 
of l˜ver cancer, a lead˜ng cause of death related to 

chron˜c hepat˜t˜s. In 2017, Mongol˜a launched the 

Healthy L˜ver Programme
 to reduce deaths from 

l˜ver cancer and c˜rrhos˜s through early detect˜on 

and treatment of v˜ral hepat˜t˜s and to el˜m˜nate 

hepat˜t˜s C (HCV) as a publ˜c health threat by 2020. 
WHO worked closely w˜th the Government 
of Mongol˜a, prov˜d˜ng techn˜cal support for 

˜mplementat˜on, ˜nclud˜ng gu˜del˜nes and 

assessments of the 21 publ˜c and pr˜vate 

laborator˜es that conduct HCV v˜ral load tests. 

As of June 2018, about 300˛000 people had been 

screened for HCV and hepat˜t˜s B (HCB); 23˛000 

people had rece˜ved HBV treatment and 20˛000 

had rece˜ved HCV treatment. The a˜m ˜s to 

screen 1.8˛m˜ll˜on people. R˜d˜ng on th˜s success, 

Mongol˜a hosted the global event for World 

Hepat˜t˜s Day 2018.
Another country w˜th a huge burden of hepat˜t˜s 
˜s Pak˜stan, where almost 12˛m˜ll˜on people l˜ve 

w˜th hepat˜t˜s˛B or C, a number that grows by 

150˛000 each year. T˜mely and rel˜able data on 

prevalence are lack˜ng, as are essent˜al hepat˜t˜s 

serv˜ces. Also, health workers have a low capac˜ty 

for engag˜ng ˜n safe ˜nject˜on pract˜ces. Screen˜ng 

˜s ˜nadequate and harm reduct˜on serv˜ces for 
people ˜nject˜ng drugs are l˜m˜ted. WHO helped to 

develop the country™s Nat˜onal Hepat˜t˜s Strateg˜c 

Framework. Better use of strateg˜c ˜nformat˜on ˜s 

dr˜v˜ng progress.˜˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˝˙ˇ˘
˜˚
˛˝˙ˆ˝ˇ
˘


 57Battl˜ng measles outbreaks 
˜n Europe
Vacc˜nat˜on ga˜ns can be eas˜ly lost. In 2018, 
measles cases h˜t a record 83˛000 ˜n Europe, 
 
w˜th 72˛deaths. Although more ch˜ldren are be˜ng 

vacc˜nated ˜n Europe than ever before, there were 

gaps ˜n subnat˜onal coverage ˜n some countr˜es 

and ˜nsu˙c˜ent coverage for ﬁherd ˜mmun˜tyﬂ 
 
˜n 34˛countr˜es ˜n the European Reg˜on. WHO has prov˜ded gu˜dance to ensure that all 
populat˜ons are covered, to ˜dent˜fy m˜ssed 

ch˜ldren, to ˜mprove outbreak detect˜on and 

response and to strengthen trust ˜n vacc˜nes. 

WHO supported Ukra˜ne Œ where 23˛000 people 

were a˝ected ˜n 2018 Œ ˜n plann˜ng and budget˜ng 
for vacc˜nes and suppl˜es. A ser˜es of workshops 

was held to rev˜ew challenges and prov˜de 

recommendat˜ons for target group plann˜ng and 

vacc˜ne and supply forecast˜ng. In Serb˜a, wh˜ch 

reported 14˛measles deaths, a WHO ta˜lored 

˜mmun˜zat˜on programme ˜nvolved country-

spec˜˚c tra˜n˜ng for health-care profess˜onals.
El˜m˜nat˜on of neonatal tetanus ˜n 
rema˜n˜ng 13 countr˜es
The leadership and normative roles of WHO are critical in 
immunization. Some examples of deliverables in 2018 are 
shown below. 
Ł WHO published a resource guide to summarize current 

knowledge and provide guidance on the integration of 

immunization with other health interventions, policies 

or activities to strengthen health systems. The work 

to integrate the essential immunization programme 

and surveillance with efforts to eradicate poliomyelitis 

(polio) is accelerating rapidly in order to harness the 
successes of the polio programme. 
Ł A WHO position paper highlights the importance 
of using typhoid vaccines to control endemic and 

epidemic typhoid, and recommends that priority be 

given to introducing the new typhoid conjugate vaccine 
in countries with the highest burden of disease or a 
growing burden of drug-resistant typhoid. The disease is 
responsible for nearly 12 million infections and between 

128 000 and 161 000 deaths a year. 
Ł In support of the call to action to eliminate cervical 

cancer, WHO is working with manufacturers to expedite 

increases in human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine supply 

and support an equitable distribution of available HPV 

vaccine doses, with priority being given to girls aged 

between nine and 14 years, the most critical target 

group. 
In contrast to the overall global progress, backsliding now 

threatens the hard-won gains made in vaccine coverage. 

Since 2000, the incidence of measles has been reduced by 

80%, but 2018 saw an increase in measles-related cases and 

deaths. There were also several large outbreaks of measles 

in all regions of the world, these are costly in health and 

financial terms, but they do serve as the ﬁcanary in the coal 

mineﬂ, revealing where immunization coverage is low for 

all vaccines.
The additional immunization efforts needed to accelerate 

progress were described in the 
2018 
Assessment Report 
of the Global Vaccine Action Plan
, issued by the Strategic 
Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE). This was widely 

disseminated and promoted to immunization- and health-

related stakeholders to guide efforts for accelerated impact 

at the country level. SAGE warned that many targets set out 

in the Global Vaccine Action Plan are unlikely to be achieved 

by the end of the decade, now just one year
 away.
 58Increased act˜on aga˜nst 
ant˜m˜crob˜al res˜stance
Antimicrobial resistance is a global threat to health. 
Antibiotics, antivirals and antifungals are now increasingly 
ineffective because of resistance resulting from excessive 
or inappropriate
 use.
Since the adoption of the Global action plan on antimicrobial 

resistance in 2015 by WHO, FAO and OIE, strong progress 



strategic
 objectives:
Global act˜on plan on ant˜m˜crob˜al 
res˜stance: strateg˜c object˜ves
Ł Raising awareness and promoting education and training
Ł Surveillance, research and evidence for action
Ł Reducing infection through infection prevention and 
control measures, including water, sanitation and 

hygiene (WASH)
Ł Optimizing the use of antimicrobial medicines in human 

and animal health
Ł Increasing investment in research and development for 

new medicines, diagnostic tools and vaccines
Track˜ng the s˜tuat˜on and progress
Surveillance data monitor the scale of the threat and 
trends. Progress in this area in 2018 includes the
 following.
Ł A total of 67
 countries have now enrolled in 
GLASS
, the Global Antimicrobial Resistance Surveillance 
System
 established by WHO, with 48
 countries (double 
the number in 2017) providing resistance data and 
more than 6000 surveillance sites generating data, an 

eightfold increase since
 2017.
Ł WHO launched GLASS-EAR (GLASS Emerging AMR 
Reporting) 
to support detection, early-warning and risk 
assessment
 capacities.
Ł WHO published the first-ever 
Report on Surveillance of 
Antibiotic Consumption 
with data from 65
 countries
.Ł A global integrated surveillance protocol for 

antimicrobial resistance in humans, the food chain 
and the environment (the ESBL
 Ec Tricycle project) is 
being piloted.
The number of low-˜ncome countr˜es 
that developed a 
nat˜onal 
act˜on plan doubled ˜n 2018 
compared w˜th the prev˜ous year.
Reduc˜ng the need for 
ant˜m˜crob˜als
Infect˜on prevent˜on and control (IPC) reduces the need for ant˜m˜crob˜als. WHO has produced 

a range of pract˜cal tools and resources on IPC, 

˜nclud˜ng updated gu˜del˜nes on surg˜cal s˜te 

˜nfect˜on. WHO supported over 40˛countr˜es ˜n 

˜mplement˜ng IPC measures. It ˜s support˜ng 
the ˜mplementat˜on of recommendat˜ons ˜n the 
˚rst global gu˜del˜nes to prevent carbapenem-

res˜stant bacter˜a ˜n health-care fac˜l˜t˜es and 

the mon˜tor˜ng and strengthen˜ng of bas˜c WASH 

serv˜ces ˜n health-care fac˜l˜t˜es, waste-water 

treatment and surve˜llance.
In S˜erra Leone
, WHO prov˜ded soap, protect˜ve 
equ˜pment, b˜n l˜ners, waste b˜ns, san˜t˜zers and 

veron˜ca buckets to support IPC ˜n health fac˜l˜t˜es 

nat˜onw˜de. Ded˜cated health-care workers 

are ˜mportant for prevent˜ng ˜nfect˜on, wh˜le 

commun˜ty engagement ˜s cruc˜al to ˜ncrease 
understand˜ng of IPC pract˜ces such as bas˜c 

hyg˜ene and san˜tat˜on.
In N˜ger˜a, WHO and partners supported 
campa˜gns ˜n schools ˜n Lagos on handwash˜ng, 

personal hyg˜ene, knowledge of ant˜b˜ot˜cs 

and ant˜m˜crob˜al res˜stance, food safety and 

env˜ronmental san˜tat˜on. 59A total of 
122˛countr˜es have now establ˜shed nat˜onal 
act˜on plans based on templates and support prov˜ded by WHO wh˜le 
57˛countr˜es are ˚nal˜z˜ng plans.
Enhanc˜ng One Health 
coord˜nat˜on and pol˜t˜cal 
comm˜tment
The econom˜c and ˚nanc˜al ˜mpact of drug res˜stance ˜mpact econom˜es ˜n terms of 
health-care costs, decreases ˜n labour supply, 

product˜v˜ty, food product˜on, an˜mal welfare, 

household ˜ncomes, nat˜onal revenues, etc. 

Ant˜m˜crob˜al res˜stance ˜s also a r˜sk to 
ach˜ev˜ng global goals on poverty allev˜at˜on, 

food secur˜ty, water and san˜tat˜on, and econom˜c 

product˜on. To address these challenges, a One 

Health approach ˜s essent˜al at the nat˜onal and 

global level.The tr˜part˜te
 collaborat˜on (FAO, OIE and WHO)
 worked on:Ł a mon˜tor˜ng and evaluat˜on framework (for use 

at nat˜onal and global levels) wh˜ch w˜ll gu˜de 

countr˜es ˜n establ˜sh˜ng systems to develop, 

mon˜tor and report relevant data;
Ł the annual self-assessment survey that closely 

mon˜tors progress ˜n the ˜mplementat˜on of 

act˜v˜t˜es ˜n countr˜es, ˜n wh˜ch 154˛countr˜es, 

represent˜ng 91% of the world populat˜on, 

part˜c˜pated.The Un˜ted Nat˜ons Interagency Coord˜nat˜on 

Group on Ant˜m˜crob˜al Res˜stance (IACG)
WHO coord˜nated the secretar˜at of the 
Coord˜nat˜on Group on behalf of the tr˜part˜te 

agenc˜es (FAO, OIE and WHO) and prov˜ded 

pract˜cal gu˜dance for e˝ect˜ve global act˜on, w˜th 

the follow˜ng contr˜but˜ons ˜n 2018:
Ł enhanced creat˜ng stronger pol˜t˜cal 

momentum, foster˜ng cooperat˜on, mob˜l˜z˜ng 

stakeholders and ˜ncreas˜ng advocacy e˝orts;
Ł prov˜d˜ng recommendat˜ons, to be subm˜tted 

to the Secretary-General of the Un˜ted Nat˜ons 

˜n 2019, to help reduce the health ˜mpact and 

econom˜c damage caused by ant˜m˜crob˜al 

res˜stance by fac˜l˜tat˜ng a global One Health 

ant˜m˜crob˜al res˜stance movement.
Ra˜s˜ng awareness
World Antibiotics Awareness Week 
involved 130
 countries 
participating in over 500
 events using WHO awareness and 
advocacy toolkits. 

toolkit on antimicrobial stewardship for hospitals in developing 

countries. WHO also helped to revise relevant Codex Alimentarius 

standards on antimicrobial resistance in the food chain. 
Tackl˜ng m˜suse
WHO is tackling misuse and overuse of antimicrobial 

medicines by continuing to support countries
 in:Ł adopting the new ﬁAWaReﬂ framework which will guide 

them towards increasing use of the Access antibiotics 

while restricting use of ﬁWatchﬂ and ﬁReserveﬂ groups, to 

maintain the effectiveness and prolong the availability of 

last-line treatment
 options;
Ł establishing and strengthening antimicrobial 

stewardship programmes to reduce misuse of 

antimicrobials, thereby reducing resistance and 

enhancing treatment
 options;
Ł strengthening national regulatory mechanisms 

that monitor substandard and falsified 

antimicrobial
 products.
AWaRe has successfully met many challenges over the first 

two years. Immediately after its launch, it was adopted 

by several high- and low-income countries. Few new 

antimicrobials have been developed in recent decades, so 

investment in research is critical. WHO is now
 working:
Ł with the Global Antibiotic Research and Development 

Partnership
 on sepsis in newborns (in a study in 
11 countries) and a new treatment for drug-resistant 
gonorrhoea (now in clinical phase
 3);Ł to monitor the clinical antibacterial and antituberculosis 

pipeline and review the global priority list of resistant 

bacteria posing the greatest threat in order to guide 

research into new
 drugs;
Ł on a landscape analysis of diagnostic tools and 

products for addressing antimicrobial resistance in 

developing
 countries.
 60Key ˛gures for 2018-2019
Budget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by programme (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
Health Assembly-approved budget
Funds ava˜lable (as at 31 December 2018)
Expend˜tureBudget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by major o˙ce (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
Approved Programme budget: US$ 805 million
Funds available: US$ 723 million (90% of Programme
 budget)
Expenditure: US$ 358 million (44% of Programme budget, 50% of available
 resources)
Amer˜cas
302014504016Europe
403317South-East As˜a889949Eastern Med˜terranean
518334Afr˜ca
291193107Western Pac˜˛c
755326Headquarters: base
Headquarters: 

Spec˜al Programme
23024211114599515001502003503001002501241034911684421077539HIV and hepat˜t˜s
Tuberculos˜s
Malar˜aUNICEF/ UNDP/ World Bank/ 
WHO Spec˜al Programme 
for Research and Tra˜n˜ng ˜n 
Trop˜cal D˜seases
Neglected trop˜cal d˜seases
Ant˜m˜crob˜al res˜stance272425032638401601716Vacc˜ne-preventable 
d˜seasesBudget and ˜mplementat˜on
The Communicable disease category has some of the 
highest financing and expenditure rates of all categories 

of work at the country level, along with Polio. The level 

of financing across programme areas at the country 

level varies depending on the maturity of the programme 
and operational needs. For example, for the Vaccine-

preventable diseases programme area, the country level 

represents 59% of the total funding for the programme 

area, compared with 29% for Neglected tropical diseases. 

With a portfolio of 20 different diseases with very different 
 61Top 10 voluntary contr˜butors (spec˜˚ed, base)
Expend˜ture: sta˝ vs. act˜v˜ty
Expend˜ture by level
Funding
 source:
Flexible funding: 13% 

Of the total voluntary contributions specified, 
79%  were from 10 contributors (shown
 beside)
Countryo˚cesReg˜onal 
o˚ces42%58%Sta˛B˜ll & Mel˜nda 
Gates Foundat˜on3%Global Fund 
to F˜ght AIDS, 
Tuberculos˜s and 
Malar˜a (GFATM)
4%12%Un˜ted States of Amer˜ca
21%GAVI,
 the Vacc˜ne All˜ance
31%GermanyCanada1%1%UNITAID Œ Internat˜onal 
Drug Purchase Fac˜l˜ty
Jo˜nt Un˜ted 
Nat˜ons 

Programme 

on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS)2%2%Un˜ted K˜ngdom of Great Br˜ta˜n and Northern IrelandUn˜ted Nat˜ons 
Foundat˜on (UNF)2%Act˜v˜ty
29%49%18%Headquarters
BaseHeadquarters
Spec˜al Programme
4%epidemiological characteristics, the technical support and 
guidance demands for neglected tropical diseases require 
consolidation of the skill set, rather than the diffusion of 
rare resources among multiple offices and levels. Similarly, 
the drugs donation programme for neglected tropical 
diseases is also integrated and accounted at headquarters 

but, in practice, is directly delivered at country
 level.
Communicable diseases attract considerable levels of 
voluntary financing, but this is highly specified, as in many 
other programme areas. This restricts the ability to move 
funding easily to where it will be most needed and makes 
funding uneven between programme areas, major offices 
and levels of the Organization. It is noteworthy that the 
Vaccine-preventable diseases area is currently funded to 
120% of its budget, as approved by the Health Assembly. 
This is the result of a lower-than-required budget set 
at the time of approval of the Programme budget, when 
the substantial budget requirements of the pilot malaria 
vaccine implementation programme in three African 

countries in late 2018 could not be included. The required 
change in budget allocation was made during the course of 
the biennium. Across all major offices, the Communicable 
diseases category overall was financed to at least 66% of 
the approved budget. It is a relatively well financed area. 

Available funding even exceeded the budget approved by 

the Health Assembly in the South-East Asia and Eastern 

Mediterranean Regions and at headquarters. Increased 

fundraising needs to be undertaken for the African Region 
in particular, where the funding gap remains at US$
 98 
million, with most programme areas being the most poorly 

funded of all the major offices. 
For further details on Programme budget funding and 
implementation for communicable diseases, refer to the 
WHO Programme Budget Portal (
http://open.who.int/2018-
19/our-work/category/01/about/key-figures
 and http://
open.who.int/2018-19).
 62THE GLOBAL POLIO 
ERADICATION 
INITIATIVE 
 63In most countries, the effective surveillance and 
immunization systems built for polio eradication have 

also helped to broaden capacities to tackle other 

infectious
 diseases.
Polio is a highly infectious viral disease affecting young 
children, which can cause irreversible paralysis and 
possible death. Although there is no cure for it, an effective 

vaccine and a dedicated drive to eradicate polio mean that 

most of the world is now polio-free. 
As long as a single child remains infected, however, all 
children everywhere are at risk. Failure to eradicate polio 
from the last remaining strongholds could lead, within 10 
years, to as many as 200 000 new cases arising worldwide 
every year. 
Key ach˜evements
Renewed pol˜t˜cal comm˜tment
Political leaders from around the world have voiced their 

support for the efforts of the Global Polio Eradication 

Initiative and advocated for a polio-free world at various 
global events, including meetings of the
 G7,
 G20,
 the 
Meeting of Commonwealth Heads of Government and the 

Rotary
 Convention.
In polio-affected countries, political commitment to 

eradication continues. The Government of the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo has signed the
 Kinshasa Declaration 
for the Eradication of Poliomyelitis and the Promotion of 

Vaccination, committing to improve vaccination coverage 
rates in 16 provinces, and
 the Government of Nigeria
 has 
secured a US$ 150 million World Bank loan to scale up 

immunization
 services.
Corner˜ng w˜ld pol˜ov˜rus
Attention on circulating wild poliovirus is now focused on 

Afghanistan and Pakistan. In both countries, the public 

sector, civil society, and community and religious leaders 

are all mobilized in the fight against polio. In 2018, the 

governments of both countries strove to improve the quality 
of their
 vaccination campaigns
 using national emergency 
action plans that focus on closing immunity gaps. A visit to 

both countries in early 2019 by the WHO Director-General, 
the WHO Regional Director for the Eastern Mediterranean 

and the President of the Global Development Programme 

of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation was testament 

to the high priority afforded to polio eradication. During 

their four-day visit, they met with the heads of State and 

witnessed local eradication efforts first-hand.
Outcomes we are a˜m˜ng to ach˜eve
 ˜n 2018Œ2019Ł No case of paralys˜s due to w˜ld or type-2 
vacc˜ne-related pol˜ov˜rus globally
In 2018, there were 33 reported 
cases of w˜ld pol˜ov˜rus worldw˜de. 
Th˜s represents a 
99% decrease
 s˜nce 1988, 
mean˜ng that more than 17.5 
m˜ll˜on cases of paralys˜s have 
been averted.
Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreysus, WHO D˜rector-General 
and Cha˜r of the Pol˜o Overs˜ght Board, adm˜n˜ster˜ng oral 

pol˜o vacc˜ne to a young ch˜ld ˜n Pak˜stan.
In Afghan˜stan and Pak˜stan, the Nat˜onal Emergency Act˜on 
Plans for Pol˜o Erad˜cat˜on are be˜ng ˜mplemented w˜th 
tremendous energy. We rema˜n determ˜ned to make our 

Reg˜on, and the world, free of pol˜o ˜n the very near future.
Dr Ahmed Al-Mandhar˜
WHO Reg˜onal D˜rector for the Eastern Med˜terranean 
 64Given that immunization gaps among highly mobile 
population groups constitute a major challenge in both 

Afghanistan and Pakistan, joint, coordinated efforts are 

being made to expand vaccination coverage using special 

nomadic teams to help to reach children on the
 move.
August 2018 marked two years
 since the last detection 
of wild poliovirus in Nigeria. As a result of continuous 
improvements in access to the north-east of the country, 
coupled with efforts to strengthen surveillance and 

enhance routine immunization, the African Region as a 

whole could be eligible for certification as free of wild 

poliovirus by late 2019. Furthermore, no cases of type 3 

wild poliovirus have been detected anywhere in the world 

since 2012, and the strain may therefore be certified as 

eradicated before the end of the
 year.
Programme ˜nnovat˜on
The polio eradication programme is constantly developing 
new ways to track the virus more effectively, vaccinate a 
greater number of children, and harness new tools to help 
to end the disease for
 good.
Significant progress has also been made in developing 
new tools, including
 novel oral polio vaccine, a potentially 
safer type of oral vaccine for use as an outbreak response 
tool in the post-polio era, but which would not replace the 

inactivated poliovirus vaccine altogether. 
Battl˜ng c˜rculat˜ng vacc˜ne-der˜ved 
pol˜ov˜rus
In 2018, outbreaks of circulating vaccine-derived polio 
occurred in the
 Democratic Republic of the Congo,
 Indonesia, 
Kenya, Mozambique, Niger,
 Nigeria,
 Papua New Guinea
 and 
Somalia. Such outbreaks arise primarily in places where 
immunity is low. The Global Polio Eradication Initiative thus 

has two urgent tasks before it: to eradicate wild poliovirus 

as quickly as possible; and to stop the use of oral polio 

vaccine globally, thereby eliminating the long-term risk of 

the emergence of new strains of circulating vaccine-derived 

poliovirus.
 The same proven strategies that are being used to stop 
wild poliovirus transmission are also being used to respond 
to circulating vaccine-derived polio. In December 2018, an 
international group of public health experts determined 

that the 2017 outbreak of type 2 circulating vaccine-derived 

polio, which had occurred in the Syrian Arab Republic, had 
been brought to a halt. That news followed 18 months of 
intensive vaccination and surveillance efforts in conflict-

affected, previously inaccessible, areas. 
In Papua New Guinea, the polio eradication programme 
conducted 100 days of emergency response from June to 

September
 2018.
Bringing an end to ongoing circulating vaccine-derived 

polio outbreaks will remain a key priority throughout
 2019.
Smartphone app helps to 
track pol˜o ˜n N˜ger˜a
In N˜ger˜a and surround˜ng areas, health 
workers are us˜ng a smartphone appl˜cat˜on, 

e-Surve, to enable qu˜ck, accurate, up-to-

date d˜sease surve˜llance.˚The app gu˜des 

programme o˛cers through conversat˜ons w˜th 

local health o˛c˜als, o˝er˜ng prompts on how to 

˜dent˜fy and report suspected cases of d˜sease. 

W˜th the touch of a button, responses are 

subm˜tted to a central database where health 

o˛c˜als can analyse and track outbreaks across 

mult˜ple d˜str˜cts ˜n real t˜me. 
Dr Namad˜ Lawal, a surve˜llance o˛cer w˜th 

the Nat˜onal Pr˜mary Health Care Development 

Agency, decr˜bes e-Surve as ﬁa wonderful 

˜nnovat˜onﬂ. S˜nce ˜ts ˜ntroduct˜on, he has been 

able to rece˜ve s˜gn˜˙cantly more accurate 

˜nformat˜on ˜n real t˜me. Th˜s ˜s part˜cularly 

˜mportant because w˜thout the accurate and 

t˜mely report˜ng of cases of d˜sease, an outbreak 

can be fully under way before author˜t˜es real˜ze 

there ˜s a problem. The app also helps to ˜dent˜fy 

trends and track data. 
New pol˜cy dec˜s˜ons
In May 2018, the Seventy-˙rst World Health 

Assembly adopted resolut˜on WHA71.16 on 

pol˜ov˜rus conta˜nment˚to accelerate progress 

and ensure pol˜ov˜rus mater˜als are˚appropr˜ately 

conta˜ned under str˜ct b˜osafety and 
b˜osecur˜ty handl˜ng and storage cond˜t˜ons. A 

comprehens˜ve˚Post-Cert˜˙cat˜on Strategy˚has 

also been ˙nal˜zed, wh˜ch spec˜˙es global 

techn˜cal standards for conta˜nment, vacc˜nat˜on 

and surve˜llance act˜v˜t˜es, essent˜al for 

ma˜nta˜n˜ng a pol˜o-free world. Recogn˜z˜ng the ongo˜ng challenge posed 
by c˜rculat˜ng vacc˜ne-der˜ved pol˜ov˜ruses, 

the˚Global Comm˜ss˜on for the Cert˜˙cat˜on 

of Pol˜omyel˜t˜s Erad˜cat˜on met ˜n November 

2018 and recommended an updated process 
for declar˜ng the world pol˜o-free, beg˜nn˜ng 

w˜th cert˜˙cat˜on of the erad˜cat˜on of type 3 

w˜ld pol˜ov˜rus, followed by cert˜˙cat˜on of the 

erad˜cat˜on of type 1 w˜ld pol˜ov˜rus. ﬁWe have 

ach˜eved erad˜cat˜on of a d˜sease once before, 

w˜th smallpox [–]. The world ˜s a much better 

place w˜thout smallpox.˚ It™s now more urgent 

than ever that we redouble our e˝orts and ˙n˜sh 
th˜s job once and for all as well.ﬂ Professor 

Helen Rees, Cha˜rperson of the 19th meet˜ng 

of the Internat˜onal Health Regulat˜ons (2005) 

Emergency Comm˜ttee Œ concern˜ng ongo˜ng 

events and context ˜nvolv˜ng transm˜ss˜on and 

˜nternat˜onal spread of pol˜ov˜rus. The Comm˜ttee 

was unan˜mous that pol˜o cont˜nues to be a global 

emergency.
 65Spotl˜ght on gender
WHO is committed to advancing gender equality and 
the empowerment of women, including in its efforts to 

eradicate polio. WHO works collectively with Global Polio 

Eradication Initiative partners to identify and remove 

gender-related barriers to immunization, recognizing 

needs, challenges and priorities. This ensures that the 



girls, boys, women and men and people with diverse gender 
identities.
  New gender-sensitive indicators have been introduced to 

ensure that polio vaccines reach girls and boys equally, to 

track the timeliness of disease surveillance for girls and 



front-line workers in countries in which polio is endemic. 

WHO continues to collect and analyse sex-disaggregated 

data and conduct gender analysis on a regular basis, to 

further strengthen vaccination
 campaigns.
Look˜ng forward
The Polio Eradication and Endgame Strategic Plan
 (2013Œ
2018) brought the world ever closer to being polio-free. 

Despite every effort to achieve polio eradication by 2018, 

the ﬁhome straightﬂ was marked with environmental and 

political obstacles and the challenges associated with 

a mobile population. In 2018, however, the Global Polio 

Eradication Initiative devised a new strategy for the period 

2019Œ2023, building on lessons learned and mapping out 

how to achieve certification by 2023. 
The overriding objective of the new strategy is to reach 
the very last remaining unvaccinated child. Inadequate 

vaccination of children is the underlying reason for the 

persistence of polio in any given area. From this, everything 

else follows. We must therefore focus on reaching and 

vaccinating the last child. 
The new strategy builds on the lessons learned since 2013 
in bringing the world to the brink of polio eradication. 
During that time, we have learned everything we need to 
know to be able to overcome any remaining obstacle to 
reaching that last unvaccinated child, be it conflict, access 
difficulties, population movement or management issues. 
The new strategy outlines the solutions to all of those 
challenges, to ensure that the last child is immunized and 
to bring an end to polio once and for
 all.Br˜ng˜ng vacc˜nat˜on to 
remote commun˜t˜es
As well as conduct˜ng surve˜llance, health 
workers have worked t˜relessly to br˜ng pol˜o 

vacc˜nes to the remote commun˜t˜es of˚Lake Chad. 

Dotted w˜th hundreds of small ˜slands, the lake ˜s 

one of the most challeng˜ng places ˜n the world to 

del˜ver health serv˜ces. Vacc˜nators must travel 

by boat for several days to del˜ver pol˜o vacc˜nes 

to ˜solated ˜sland v˜llages, us˜ng solar-powered 

refr˜gerators to keep the vacc˜nes at the correct 

temperature. In 2018, vacc˜nat˜on campa˜gns 

on the lake enabled thousands of ch˜ldren, who 

would otherw˜se have gone unprotected, to be 

accessed for the ˙rst t˜me.
Female pol˜o workers break 
taboos ˜n Afghan˜stan
Front-l˜ne pol˜o workers are poss˜bly the largest 

female workforce ˜n Afghan˜stan. As more women 

than ever work to erad˜cate pol˜o, they are also 

un˜ntent˜onally lead˜ng a soc˜al revolut˜on, 

break˜ng a strong taboo aga˜nst women who 
work. Women make up a th˜rd of pol˜o workers 

˜n urban areas ˜n the country, although the 

proport˜on ˜s lower ˜n rural areas. H˜r˜ng female 

health workers ˜n trad˜t˜onal contexts ˜s cr˜t˜cal, 

as, unl˜ke the˜r male counterparts, women 

have access to households and are able to bu˜ld 

trust˜ng relat˜onsh˜ps w˜th other women, and thus 

conv˜nce mothers to vacc˜nate the˜r ch˜ldren. 
Th˜s approach ˜n Afghan˜stan shows that by 
cons˜der˜ng gender ˜ssues, the pol˜o erad˜cat˜on 

programme ˜s able to max˜m˜ze ˜ts reach. For 

example, a d˜str˜ct pol˜o worker ˜n Kandahar, 

Hab˜bur Rahman, expla˜ns: ﬁBefore we had female 

pol˜o workers, we were m˜ss˜ng [vacc˜nat˜on 

among some] ch˜ldren. Females can enter the 

house, but males cannot.ﬂ
She adds that recru˜t˜ng female workers can 
be d˜˛cult. ﬁMany th˜nk women should not 

work,ﬂ she says. Now, w˜th more female workers, 

vacc˜nat˜on coverage has ˜mproved ˜n th˜s area, 

where pol˜o cases have ar˜sen ˜n recent years. 
 66Key ˚gures for 2018Œ2019
Budget and ˜mplementat˜on
Budget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by programme (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
9037554632000600800140040012001000Pol˜o Amer˜cas
211Europe
632South-East As˜a564027Eastern Med˜terranean
208283172Afr˜ca
328314199Western Pac˜˚c
51814Health Assembly-approved budget
Funds ava˜lable (as at 31 December 2018)
Expend˜tureBudget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by major o˛ce (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
Approved Programme budget: US$ 903 million
Funds available: US$ 755 million (84% of Programme
 budget)
Expenditure: US$ 463 million (51% of Programme budget, 61% of available
 resources)
Headquarters
2989648Polio eradication was funded to a level of 84% of its 
approved budget, entirely from specified funding. The 

South-East Asia Region (71%), African Region (96%) and 

Eastern Mediterranean Region (136%) have relatively 

higher funding levels than the other regions, owing to the 

epidemiology in the regions and the scale of the polio 

eradication efforts. However, expenditure is lower than 

expected, particularly in the Eastern Mediterranean Region, 

probably due to crisis situation in many
 countries.
Expenditure at the country level was 82% of the total, 

while staff costs were 19%. At present, polio eradication 

remains capable of utilizing high levels of specified funding 
through activity expenditures. The polio programme is 

activity intensive. Implementing key activities, especially 

surveillance and immunization, entails substantial costs. 

Future financial risks are related to increasing financial 

requirements and fewer flexible voluntary contributions to 

meet unforeseen
 needs.
For further details on the Programme budget funding and 

implementation for this category, please refer to the WHO 

Programme Budget Portal (
http://open.who.int/2018-19/
our-work/category/10/about/key-figures
 and http://open.
who.int/2018-19).
 67Top 10 voluntary contr˜butors (spec˜˙ed)
Funding
 source:
Flexible funding: 0% 
Voluntary contributions specified: 100%
Of the total voluntary contributions specified, 
94% were from 10 contributors (shown
 beside)
CanadaUn˜ted K˜ngdom of 
Great Br˜ta˜n 
and Northern 

Ireland4%Germany7%15%Un˜ted States of Amer˜ca
15%B˜ll & Mel˜nda Gates 
Foundat˜on27%Rotary Internat˜onalNat˜onal 
Ph˜lanthrop˜c Trust (NPT)10%10%Pak˜stan
1%European Comm˜ss˜on2%Un˜ted Arab 
Em˜rates
3%Expend˜ture: sta˝ vs. act˜v˜ty
Expend˜ture by level
Act˜v˜ty
81%19%Sta˚82%7%11%Countryo˛cesReg˜onal 
o˛cesHeadquarters
 68PROGRAMME AREAS
Leadersh˜p and 
governance
Transparency, 
accountab˜l˜ty and 
 r˜sk managementStrateg˜c plann˜ng, 
resource coord˜nat˜on 
and report˜ng
Management and 
adm˜n˜strat˜on
Strateg˜c 
commun˜cat˜ons
LEADERSHIP 
AND ENABLING 
FUNCTIONS
 69Outcomes we are a˜m˜ng to ach˜eve 
 ˜n 2018˚2019Ł greater coherence ˜n global health, w˜th 
WHO tak˜ng the lead ˜n enabl˜ng the d˜˚erent actors to play an act˜ve and 
e˚ect˜ve role ˜n contr˜but˜ng to the health of 

all people;
Ł accountable and transparent operat˜ons, 

w˜th well-funct˜on˜ng r˜sk management and 
evaluat˜on frameworks;
Ł ˛nanc˜ng and resource allocat˜on that 
˜s al˜gned w˜th the pr˜or˜t˜es and health 

needs of Member States ˜n a results-based 
management framework;
Ł ˜mproved publ˜c and stakeholder 
understand˜ng of the work of WHO.
WHO™s new and bold 
tr˜ple b˜ll˜on targets:
1 b˜ll˜on
 more people bene˛t˜ng 
from un˜versal health coverage
1 b˜ll˜on
 more people protected 
from health emergenc˜es
1 b˜ll˜on
 more people enjoy˜ng 
better health and well-be˜ng.
I bel˜eve we should not put any l˜m˜ts on ourselves as 
we str˜ve to del˜ver a measurable ˜mpact ˜n the l˜ves of 
the people we serve. We must work w˜th unrelent˜ng 
v˜gour and unrestr˜cted bel˜ef that anyth˜ng ˜s poss˜ble.Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus
WHO D˜rector-General
Key object˜ves
Ł to lead and convene decisions on public health issues 
between Member States and stakeholders
Ł to give the Organization a sharper focus on results
Ł to ensure adequate resources and good governance, with 

the highest standards of integrity and oversight
Ł to provide core administrative services that underpin the 

effective and efficient functioning of WHO
Ł to ensure that effective and efficient management and 

administration are consistently established across 

the Organization.
Key ach˜evements
Sett˜ng the new strateg˜c d˜rect˜ons 
 for WHO
Recognizing the potential of WHO to dramatically improve 
global health, the Seventy-first World Health Assembly 
approved a new strategic plan in 2018 for the following five 

of Work (GPW
 13). Exactly 70
 years after WHO was founded, 
GPW
 13 sets out not just to transform WHO but to transform 
global health and individual human lives. Its objectives 

are ambitious but they come with concrete targets that 

 level.
The triple billion targets will be met primarily through 
multisectoral policy, advocacy and regulation. GPW
 13 
is designed to help the world achieve the Sustainable 

Development Goals (SDGs), with a particular focus on 
Goal
 3, ﬁEnsure healthy lives and promoting well-being for 
all at all ages by 2030ﬂ. GPW
 13 provides a vision, rooted in 
Article
 1 of the WHO Constitution and based on the SDGs, 
of ﬁa world in which all people attain the highest possible 

standard of health and well-beingﬂ.
 70Transform˜ng WHO
WHO™s transformat˜on process a˜ms to repos˜t˜on, 
recon˛gure and capac˜tate the Organ˜zat˜on 

w˜th˜n the broader Un˜ted Nat˜ons reform process 

so that ˜ts normat˜ve and techn˜cal work ˜s of an 

even h˜gher qual˜ty and more sharply focused 

on the needs, demands and expected act˜ons of 

Member States and translates d˜rectly ˜nto results 

at country level.The year 2018 was a cr˜t˜cal one for bu˜ld˜ng 

momentum for the transformat˜on. Cr˜t˜cal 

m˜lestones that were ach˜eved ˜nclude the follow˜ng.
Ł A new strategy was developed to al˜gn the work 

of the ent˜re Organ˜zat˜on w˜th the targets of the 

health-related SDGs.
Ł A total of 13 of WHO™s core techn˜cal, external 

relat˜ons and bus˜ness processes were exam˜ned 

and pr˜or˜t˜zed for redes˜gn, beg˜nn˜ng w˜th 

the programme budget process. These process 

redes˜gns were accepted for Organ˜zat˜on-w˜de 

rollout at the ˛rst WHO Global Management 

Meet˜ng, held ˜n December 2018.
Ł The overall operat˜ng model, wh˜ch was 

des˜gned to del˜ver the Twelfth General 

Programme of Work, 2014Œ2019, was 

rev˜ewed. Proposals were made after ˜nternal 
consultat˜ons on WHO™s roles, structure and 

ways of work˜ng to al˜gn these across all major 

o˝ces and the three levels of the Organ˜zat˜on. 

Analyses focused ˜n˜t˜ally on WHO™s country 

presence and subsequently on ˜ts headquarters 

and reg˜onal o˝ces. Broad agreement was 

establ˜shed on the key pr˜nc˜ples that would 

underp˜n the new operat˜ng model, wh˜ch 

was subsequently endorsed at the Global 

Management Meet˜ng.Ł Assessment of the underly˜ng culture of WHO 

work led to the ˜dent˜˛cat˜on of a range of core 

act˜ons to be taken at the corporate, major 

o˝ce and team levels to change the m˜ndset 
and behav˜our of all sta˚ members, ˜nclud˜ng 

sen˜or management. A global d˜alogue among 
all sta˚ members resulted ˜n the draft˜ng of the 

WHO Values Charter, wh˜ch w˜ll be launched ˜n 

2019 and w˜ll ˜nclude a plan for embedd˜ng the 

values ˜n the da˜ly work of all sta˚ members, 

˜nclud˜ng leaders.
Ł The transformat˜on process also tr˜ggered 

a reth˜nk˜ng of WHO™s approach to external 

engagement ˜n order to e˚ect˜vely 

commun˜cate, ˛nance and ˜mplement the new 

strategy.
Tak˜ng the lead on Susta˜nable 
Development Goal˝3
In response to a request to develop a global action plan 
for Sustainable Development Goal 3 made by three 
global leaders, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, 
President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo of Ghana and 
Prime Minister Erna Solberg of Norway, supported by the 
United Nations Secretary-General, António Guterres, WHO 
coordinated the development of the Global Action Plan 
for Healthy Lives and Well-Being for All, which unites the 
work of 12 leading global organizations active in health. 
The Global Action Plan is a powerful platform for global 
health agencies to advance collective action and accelerate 
progress towards the SDGs. Maximizing this opportunity 
and platform will only be made possible by sustained 
engagement at the highest political levels to ensure further 
interministerial and intersectoral
 action.With WHO coordination, the 12
 global health organizations 
have identified areas in which collective action can be 

scaled up through key cross-cutting ﬁacceleratorsﬂ, bringing 
together resources, expertise and reach to create catalytic 
enablers that will significantly advance progress across the 

SDG agenda.
SDG 3 accelerators:
Ł Sustainable financing
Ł Primary health care
Ł Community and civil society engagement
Ł Determinants of health
Ł Research, development, innovation and access
Ł Data and digital health
Ł Innovative programming in fragile and vulnerable 

settings and for disease outbreak
 response.
 71Comm˜tt˜ng to mak˜ng an 
˜mpact on people™s l˜ves
WHO™s clear focus on ˜mpact enta˜ls a comm˜tment to mon˜tor˜ng and measur˜ng 
the ach˜evement of results. A well-de˛ned 

measurement system has been proposed to 

mon˜tor and measure progress towards ach˜ev˜ng 

the ˜mpact set out ˜n GPW 13.
The measurement system cons˜sts of an overarch˜ng 
and comparable measure of progress reported by:
Ł the healthy l˜fe expectancy (HALE) ˜nd˜cator that 
l˜nks the tr˜ple b˜ll˜on targets;
Ł compos˜te ˜nd˜ces for each of the tr˜ple b˜ll˜on 

targets themselves; and
Ł a set of outcome ˜nd˜cators, compr˜s˜ng 38 SDG 

˜nd˜cators and 8 for other areas of work not 

covered by the SDG ˜nd˜cators (for example, 

ant˜m˜crob˜al res˜stance and emergenc˜es).
Ł The tr˜ple b˜ll˜on targets w˜ll gu˜de the 

most ˜mportant act˜ons and ˜nvestments 
towards mak˜ng an ˜mpact on people™s l˜ves Œ 

focus˜ng on un˜versal health coverage, health 

emergenc˜es and health˜er populat˜ons.
Al˜gn˜ng transformat˜on 
w˜th Un˜ted Nat˜ons reform
 at country level
As part of the Un˜ted Nat˜ons country team, WHO 
has been proact˜vely engaged ˜n Un˜ted Nat˜ons 

reform at country level to enhance the e˚ect˜veness 

of the Un˜ted Nat˜ons presence ˜n countr˜es. A total 

of 128 WHO country o˝ces reported that they had 

part˜c˜pated ˜n the development of the Un˜ted Nat˜ons 

Development Ass˜stance Framework (UNDAF) ˜n 

the˜r country of ass˜gnment. Most of the pr˜or˜t˜es 

of the WHO country cooperat˜on strateg˜es are 

re˙ected ˜n the UNDAF, wh˜ch re˙ects the synerg˜es 

between these two strateg˜c frameworks and the 

complementary work of WHO and the Un˜ted Nat˜ons.
Country ˜mpact-focused: mak˜ng 
 GPW 13 happen
Lessons learned from past initiatives show that a 
WHO focused on country impact will require multiple, 

interrelated changes in processes, methodologies, 

structures and most importantly in mindsets. The strong 
focus on impact in GPW
 13 will drive these changes in the 
Organization. The following are critical to making the focus 

on impact a
 reality:
The focus on impact brought to light the need for a clear set 

of targets. In 2018, a wide-ranging consultation process on 

targets, indicators and methodologies was conducted. The 

WHO Impact Framework targets will provide the direction 

and country focus for every action and investment in
 WHO.
The new programme budget process has incorporated 

more impact-focused priority-setting at the country level. 

WHO has started to develop country support plans for 
the entire duration of GPW
 13 to ensure that effective and 
coherent support is provided across the three levels of the 

Organization. An enhancement of the planning process Œ 

the Country Support Plan Œ will align the work across the 

three levels of the Organization, which is closely focused on 

delivering better support to
 countries.
Country focus cannot be achieved only by creating 

priorities, plans and budgets that support country delivery. 

Ensuring the effective measurement of the impact at 

achieve that impact in countries is crucial to making 
both Member States and the Secretariat accountable for 
delivering it. WHO is introducing a new way of ensuring 

that results are measured at different levels of the 
results framework, including the triple billion indices, 
programmatic targets and a new approach to measuring 
the accountability of the
 Secretariat.
Tak˜ng the lead at the country level
WHO continues to lead or co-lead donor coordination 
mechanisms with governments. WHO country offices 

have reported that they are increasingly playing a 

leadership role in 70% of the countries, territories 

and areas in which such mechanisms are active. WHO 
country offices are supporting governments and 
partners in implementing the SDGs by contributing 

to national SDG coordination platforms, advocacy, 

resource mobilization, coordination in setting national 
targets, monitoring and evaluation. A large proportion 
of WHO country offices (89%) have reported being 
engaged in providing technical support for the 

mainstreaming of SDGs into national plans, policies 

and programmes.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 

reaffirms the need to enhance south-south and 

triangular cooperation, as well as regional and 

international cooperation, in ensuring access to 

science, technology and innovation for the achievement 

of the SDGs. Globally, half of the WHO offices in 

countries, territories and areas in all six regions 

reported supporting a total of 241 south-south and/or 

triangular cooperation
 initiatives.
Measur˜ng performance by del˜ver˜ng 
results

its focus on accountability, transparency and results, the 

Regional Office for Africa has invested in defining and 

institutionalizing the robust Africa Results Framework 

with the introduction of programmatic and managerial key 

performance indicators. The managerial key performance 

indicators have improved the internal effectiveness and 

efficiency of the Regional Office, while the programmatic 

key performance indicators have focused on driving change 

in the capacity of WHO country offices to serve Member 

States more effectively, making them more responsive and 

more fit for
 purpose.
 72Partner˜ng for better 
health outcomes
WHO began a partnersh˜p w˜th Bloomberg ˜n 
2007 to support tobacco control and ˜njury 

prevent˜on. In the area of tobacco control, 

WHO™s ˜mpact has been max˜m˜zed through 

pol˜c˜es and spec˜al˜zed country programm˜ng, 

w˜th a strateg˜c focus on four pr˜or˜ty countr˜es 

who have the largest burden of tobacco users: 

Bangladesh, Ch˜na, Ind˜a and Indones˜a. Overall, 

Bloomberg Ph˜lanthrop˜es™ support for tobacco 

control has enabled WHO to reach 4.7 b˜ll˜on 

people Œ 63% of the world™s populat˜on Œ through 

tobacco control measures.WHO has been a long-term partner of the Ch˜nese Government and the Bloomberg In˜t˜at˜ve to 

˜mplement the requ˜rements of the Framework 

Convent˜on on Tobacco Control, a global health 

treaty rat˜˛ed by more than 180 countr˜es. The 

WHO Ch˜na o˝ce has launched an ant˜-tobacco 
campa˜gn that features four young celebr˜t˜es and 

has m˜ll˜ons of followers. W˜th˜n ˜ts ˛rst week, the 

campa˜gn reached more than 120 m˜ll˜on soc˜al 

med˜a users and engaged 80 m˜ll˜on people ˜n 

d˜scuss˜on threads. More than 184 med˜a outlets 
covered the campa˜gn and a v˜deo was d˜splayed 

˜n landmark bu˜ld˜ngs and s˜tes throughout Ch˜na 
and ˜n New York C˜ty™s T˜mes Square.
The campa˜gn was bu˜lt on a decade of 
collaborat˜on between WHO Ch˜na and Bloomberg 

to support Ch˜na™s tobacco advocates ˜n push˜ng 

for tobacco taxes, advert˜s˜ng and promot˜on laws, 

graph˜c warn˜ngs and smoke-free leg˜slat˜on. 

WHO™s engagement w˜th non-trad˜t˜onal partners 

˜n enterta˜nment and fash˜on has opened doors to 

reach˜ng b˜gger aud˜ences as a counterbalance to 
aggress˜ve tobacco ˜ndustry market˜ng.Walk˜ng the talk on 
equ˜table gender 
representat˜on
Ł The percentage of women hold˜ng 
 long-term appo˜ntments ˜n the  
profess˜onal and h˜gher categor˜es 
˜ncreased from 44.4% ˜n 2017  to 45.4% ˜n 2018.Ł The number of women hold˜ng  sen˜or pos˜t˜ons at headquarters 
 ˜ncreased from 37% ˜n 2017  to 41% ˜n 2018.Cont˜nu˜ng the comm˜tment to 
transparency
The Secretariat has continued to enhance and further 
refine the data it publishes on the Programme budget 

web portal. Enhancements include new data, such as data 

on the mapping of global and regional governing body 

resolutions and on the work and financing of the Pandemic 
Influenza Preparedness Framework. The web portal 
maintains key features that meet compliance commitments 

under the International Aid Transparency Initiative. It 

has the potential to streamline the way the Organization 
provides information on its focus, what it does, what 
resources it has, how it spends its resources, what results 
are achieved and the assessment of its performance. WHO 

continues to demonstrate best practice as an instrument of 

organizational
 transparency.
Transform˜ng resource mob˜l˜zat˜on
The WHO resource mobilization strategy aims to ensure 
that the Organization is sufficiently resourced to deliver 


triple billion targets. The resource mobilization strategy 
defines how the Organization will achieve its resource 

targets through tailored approaches, both traditional 

and innovative in nature, and through a greater variety 

of partnerships. The strategy also reflects opportunities 

to increase philanthropic support and leverage resource 

potential at the country
 level.
Max˜m˜z˜ng ˜mpact through 
partnersh˜ps

global health agency with a mandate that can change 
the world Œ but WHO can deliver only by working with 

others, welcoming and learning from them and sharing 
responsibility according to the comparative advantages of 
each partner. Guided by the realization that the world is too 
big to be served by only one agency, throughout 2018 WHO 
has strengthened its existing partnerships and established 

new
 ones.
Mon˜tor˜ng WHO™s pr˜nc˜pal r˜sks
Through the proactive use of risk management techniques, 
the Secretariat is managing and regularly monitoring 

objectives. To further improve accountability and 
transparency across all levels of the Organization, 
the regional offices have established or are currently 
establishing regional compliance and risk management 
committees to support decision-making
 processes.
 73Mak˜ng a case for 
˜nvest˜ng ˜n health ˜mpact 
and ˜nvest˜ng ˜n WHO
WHO has publ˜shed ˜ts ˛rst ˜nvestment case: 
ﬁa health˜er human˜ty
ﬂ. For the ˛rst t˜me, WHO 

has clearly expressed the expected return on 

˜nvestment, espec˜ally ˜n terms of the ˜mpact 

that ˜nvestments w˜ll make on people™s l˜ves by 

˜mplement˜ng GPWˆ13.By 2023, to ach˜eve:
30˝m˜ll˜on
 l˜ves saved
100˝m˜ll˜on
 years of 
 healthy l˜v˜ng
4% of econom˜c growth
  ˜n low- and m˜ddle-˜ncome 
countr˜es.Cost:US$˝14.1˝b˜ll˜on
 over 5ˆyears.
The ˜nvestment case helps to art˜culate what 
matters most and gu˜des resource mob˜l˜zat˜on 

e˚orts to focus on results.
WHO has implemented training courses on the prevention 
of harassment, sexual harassment and abuse of authority, 
and zero tolerance for sexual exploitation and abuse. The 

courses have been made mandatory for all staff members 

and completion rates are all close to
 100%.
As WHO is a data-driven organization and data have 
become more prone to cyberattacks, cybersecurity has 

mitigation measures to protect against data loss and theft 

have been put in place. To this effect, the Organization has 

introduced mandatory cybersecurity awareness training 

for all users of WHO information systems. An initiative has 

also been launched to develop a comprehensive WHO data 

protection policy. WHO takes its data integrity seriously 

and continues to seek ways to enforce protection of its 

digital
 assets.
Enabl˜ng the ach˜evement of ˜mpact
WHO makes a significant investment in management 
and administration, not only to maintain its integrity and 
ensure that the Organization remains accountable for its 
resources but also to facilitate its health impacts. Efficient 
management and administration can determine the success 
of a technical programme, such as by ensuring the timely 
recruitment of key staff members to provide much-needed 

expertise to release bottlenecks in a programme, the 

provision of experts to agree on standards for global public 
health goods or the procurement of equipment that will 
keep patients and WHO staff members
 safe.
The critical role of management and administration 
is exemplified by the successful security operations, 

supported at all three levels of the Organization, that were 

conducted during the response to the recent outbreaks of 

Ebola virus disease. Without the security the Organization 

provides for its staff members, partners and health workers, 

the treatment centres would stop operating, vaccinations 

would not be administered and the community mobilization 



not take
 place.


been a key achievement of the procurement units in many 

WHO offices.
 74Procur˜ng essent˜al med˜c˜nes
The updated WHO Quality Assurance Policy for the 
Procurement of Essential Medicines and other Health 
Products was published in June 2018. It sets out the 
principles and requirements that drive the procurement 
by WHO of essential medicines and health products, and 

it includes a set of clear and transparent criteria that are 
used to select among potential sources and suppliers. This 
policy applies to all WHO offices that procure medicines for 
both routine and emergency purposes. It is monitored by 

the WHO Quality Assurance
 Group.
Reta˜n˜ng talent
For a technical agency like WHO, its staff members are its 

most important asset. WHO is transforming its ways of 

working with human resources to retain the best people and 

place the right people in the right
 places.
The new 
Short-term Developmental Assignments
 Policy,
 launched in March 2018, has allowed 45 staff 
members in all categories and at all organizational levels 

to be temporarily exposed to different work environments 

at other duty stations or major offices for the purposes 

of career development. It is the first time that national 
professional officers and general service staff members 
have been provided with that
 opportunity.
The Global Mentoring Programme
, introduced as a 
pilot in 2016, has been so successful that it was recently 
relaunched to recruit more mentors (70
 mentors are 
available to date across the Organization) and offer 

more staff members the opportunity to capitalize on and 

share the wealth of internal experience and knowledge 

within WHO, while promoting networking and learning 

opportunities for
 all.Protect˜ng our sta˙ members
Providing security for the safety and security of the staff 

members of the Organization is an essential part of WHO 

programme delivery and achieving impacts. The global 

security situation is changing, making programme delivery 

more difficult in many locations. WHO is required to deliver 

its mission to help countries achieve their priorities, 

including in conflict, fragile and vulnerable situations. For 

example, the Secretariat deployed additional dedicated 

field security officers to support operations in 2018 in 

Bangladesh, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Libya, 

Mozambique and Yemen, among
 others.
WHO has increased the capacity of its security support 

services and will continue to strengthen and consolidate 

these
 services.
83shipments 4.5 million 
This is a snapshot of the Dubai warehouse operations in 2018:

, 
 












       in 
1,462  75Procurement ˜n 
emergenc˜es
As part of broader ˜n˜t˜at˜ves to strengthen supply 
cha˜ns, WHO ˜s expand˜ng current operat˜ons 

based ˜n the Internat˜onal Human˜tar˜an C˜ty, 

Duba˜, Un˜ted Arab Em˜rates. In 2018, the 

operat˜on exper˜enced s˜gn˜˛cant ˜ncreases ˜n 

demand for l˜fe-sav˜ng med˜c˜ne and med˜cal 

suppl˜es. Recogn˜z˜ng the value of ma˜nta˜n˜ng 

pre-pos˜t˜oned stocks of emergency health 

suppl˜es and the strateg˜c geograph˜c locat˜on of 

Duba˜, WHO ˜s expand˜ng the current operat˜on 

from an ˜n˜t˜al 3000 square meters to over 12ˆ000 

square meters of temperature-controlled storage.
Sav˜ng costs on 
procurement
Under the overs˜ght of the Qual˜ty Assurance 

Group, WHO has standard˜zed ˜ts l˜st of 

med˜cal ˜tems. Tenders are ˜ssued for long-

term agreements w˜th suppl˜ers w˜th the 

a˜m of ˜nclud˜ng the most frequently used 

pharmaceut˜cal products ˜n the WHO e-catalogue. 

Th˜s process w˜ll avo˜d repet˜t˜ve procurement 

exerc˜ses for commod˜t˜es w˜th ˜dent˜cal or 

very s˜m˜lar spec˜˛cat˜ons. It ˜s ant˜c˜pated that 

the overall ˜mprovement ˜n the procurement 

process, ˜n terms of qual˜ty, t˜m˜ng, pr˜c˜ng and 

adm˜n˜strat˜ve costs, w˜ll y˜eld s˜gn˜˛cant cost 

sav˜ngs for the Organ˜zat˜on.
The Ebola response in the Democratic Republic of Congo 
presented its own unique challenges, with the programme 

and staff members increasingly being obliged to deliver 

services in the face of security threats. The operations 

required investment in armoured vehicles, emergency 

communication and personal protection equipment, as 

well as in training of personnel. As part of the United 

Nations security management system, WHO is leveraging 

the combined resources of the United Nations system, 

including the United Nations Department of Safety and 

Security and the United Nations Organization Stabilization 

Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in support 
of the Ebola response. However, the situation remains 
unpredictable and the risks extremely
 high.WHO is strengthening its capacity to deal with the 
increasing demands for emergency surge support and to 

maintain an effective international coverage. WHO operates 

on the premise that every staff member and every office 

must be made safe and secure and thereby enabled to 

deliver the support required in any situation on the
 ground.
Account˜ng for every dollar
According to the WHO Office of Internal Oversight Services, 
the effectiveness of internal control in the WHO African 
Region increased from 50% in 2015 to 75% in 2018. All 

functional domains witnessed significant improvements, 

especially the domain of direct financial cooperation, in 
which the operational effectiveness of controls more than 
doubled. One particularly striking indicator of progress 
was the reduction of outstanding reports. The number of 

overdue direct financial cooperation reports in the African 

Region was reduced from 1907 reports as of 1
 April 2016 to 
62 reports as of 15
 February 2019 Œ a decrease of 84% over 
the past year, 91% over the past two years and 97% over 

the past three
 years.
The Regional Office for Africa developed a strategy, on the 

basis of which it designed and implemented a number of 

processes and tools that were employed in a systematic 

and disciplined approach, with a consistent focus. However, 

the key success factors were a deep sense of purpose and 

commitment; clear expectations and a clear understanding 



collaboration; open communication; and a strong sense of 

shared accountability and
 trust.
The October 2018 meeting of senior administrative staff of 

the African Region adopted a unanimous commitment to 

achieve ﬁzero overdue direct financial cooperation reportsﬂ. 

Current trends indicate that the Region may reach this 

never-before-achieved benchmark by June
 2019.
2,500Number of reports2,0001,500
1,0005000Apr 2016Apr 2017Apr 2018Oct 2016Oct 2017Oct 2018Number of overdue d˜rect ˛nanc˜al cooperat˜on 
reports, Reg˜onal Oˆce for Afr˜ca, 2016Œ2019
 76Strengthened commun˜cat˜ons
Many WHO regional offices have reoriented their focus to 
strengthen communications at both regional and country 

levels, leading to more effective and timely communication 



key
 audiences.
Key actions in 2018 included the updating, restructuring 

and migrating of regional, country and area websites to a 

modern content management system and training staff 

members to use the new system. The team also focused on 

reaching out proactively to journalists and sending releases 

in a targeted manner, generating more than 100 WHO 

stories in print, online and broadcast
 media.Another important activity was the continued deployment 



to engage in effective emergency/risk communications 

and to promote universal health coverage. Examples of 

deployments in the Western Pacific Region included the 

direct support provided in response to the Papua New 

Guinea earthquake and polio outbreak, the flood in the Lao 



vaccine crisis, as well as the support provided by the 

Viet Nam country office for targeted communications to 

promote universal health
 care.
Bu˜ld˜ng eˆc˜enc˜es and safety ˜nto 
WHO ˜nfrastructure
WHO is modernizing its headquarters in Geneva, bringing 
the campus into line with Swiss safety and environmental 

standards and United Nations security norms. To ensure 

its flexibility to adapt to future needs and in recognition 

of the ever-changing landscape in which WHO works, 

the Organization has adopted an agile and innovative 

approach to the configuration of infrastructure within the 

renovated
 campus.
WHO Member States, especially the Government of 

Switzerland, local Geneva authorities and other entities, 

have been supportive in enabling the project. Funding has 

been provided through the WHO Infrastructure Fund, a 

sustainable funding mechanism and an interest-free loan 

from Switzerland. This complex and important project is 

proceeding on time and within
 cost.
WHO is also redeveloping its Regional Office for South-East 

Asia. This project is also motivated by the need to comply 
with local safety and environmental standards and United 
Nations security norms and is made possible by a generous 
contribution from the Government of India, which
 is taking 
the lead in financing and managing this project, along 

with other regional Member States who have also pledged 
financial support. The new building will comply with the 
LEED Platinum rating specifications, ensuring a healthy 
workplace for staff and visitors, with appropriate spaces for 

movement and physical activity and a working design that 

encourages collaboration and
 cooperation.
Targeted commun˜cat˜ons 
to promote un˜versal 
health coverage ˜n 
 
V˜et Nam
WHO ˜s work˜ng w˜th V˜et Nam™s M˜n˜stry of 
Health to strengthen ˜ts health system capac˜ty 

to del˜ver qual˜ty and equ˜table serv˜ces under 
the jo˜nt Health Cooperat˜on Programme. As 

part of th˜s Programme, WHO ˜s support˜ng the 

M˜n˜stry of Health to advocate for advanc˜ng 

un˜versal health coverage by, for example, 

advocat˜ng for ˜ncreased ˛nanc˜ng to pr˜or˜ty 

areas such as grass-roots level reforms. To 

support th˜s pr˜or˜ty further, the WHO country 

o˝ce has strengthened ˜ts commun˜cat˜ons 

support to the V˜et Nam M˜n˜stry of Health. It has 

prepared commun˜cat˜ons products targeted at 

pol˜cymakers, techn˜cal experts, heath workers 

and the general publ˜c and has also helped 

to strengthen the capac˜ty of the M˜n˜stry of 

Health ˜n r˜sk commun˜cat˜ons by tra˜n˜ng 

sen˜or o˝c˜als. WHO V˜et Nam has created 

an o˝ce-w˜de task force on commun˜cat˜ons 

and advocacy, w˜th a strategy based on us˜ng 

strengthened commun˜cat˜ons to help ach˜eve 

˜mpacts at the country level. 77Arch˜tects™ v˜sual˜zat˜ons of new extens˜on for headquarters (top) and redevelopment 
for the Reg˜onal O˝ce for South-East As˜a (bottom) 78Budget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by programme (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
224182105500150200350400100300250543321392918355272159Leadersh˜p and governance 
Transparency, accountab˜l˜ty 
and r˜sk managementStrateg˜c plann˜ng, resource 
coord˜nat˜on and report˜ng 
Management and adm˜n˜strat˜on
Strateg˜c commun˜cat˜ons 
443219Health Assembly-approved budget
Funds ava˜lable (as at 31 December 2018)
Expend˜tureBudget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture, by major o˝ce (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on)
Approved Programme budget: US$ 715.5 million
Funds available: US$ 548 million (77% of Programme
 budget)
Expenditure: US$ 321 million (45% of Programme budget, 58% of available
 resources)
Amer˜cas
251714Europe
594627South-East As˜a555024Eastern Med˜terranean
755928Afr˜ca
14713869Western Pac˜˛c
494722Headquarters
306192137Key ˛gures for 2018Œ2019
 79Top 10 voluntary contr˜butors (spec˜˛ed)
Expend˜ture: sta˚ vs. act˜v˜ty
Expend˜ture by level
Funding
 source:
Flexible funding: 94% 

Of the total voluntary contributions specified, 
88% were from 10 contributors (shown
 beside)
Un˜ted K˜ngdom of 
Great Br˜ta˜n 
and Northern 

Ireland3%Ch˜na4%7%Germany12%B˜ll & Mel˜nda Gates 
Foundat˜on45%43%25%32%Countryo˚cesReg˜onal 
o˚cesHeadquarters
Republ˜c of KoreaJapan6%6%Italy
1%Un˜ted States of Amer˜ca
2%Senegal2%Un˜ted Nat˜ons 
Development Programme 
(UNDP)Act˜v˜ty
29%71%Sta˛Budget and ˜mplementat˜on
The leadership and enabling functions category was funded 
overall to a level of 77% of its approved budget. Across the 

three levels of the Organization, headquarters is the least 

well-funded, at 63%. The scale of headquarters operations 

is considerably bigger, however. Headquarters expenditure 

in this category in 2018 accounts for 43% of the total, 

compared with 32% at the country
 level.
Funding for this category is based on a different model 

from that used for the other categories and is also largely 
focused on staff costs (71% of total expenditure). This 

category is expected to be essentially funded in future, but 

will be kept as economical as possible through efforts such 

as increased efficiency
 gains.
For further details on programme budget funding and 

implementation for this category, please refer to the WHO 

Programme Budget Portal (
http://open.who.int/2018-19/
our-work/category/06/about/key-figures
 and http://open.
who.int/2018-19).
 80Budget and ˚nanc˜al h˜ghl˜ghts
Budget, funds ava˜lable and expend˜ture for the Programme budget 
 2018Œ2019 by budget segment, as at 31 December 2018 (˜n US$ m˜ll˜on) 
Total budget 
4422(US$ m˜ll˜on)
Total funds ava˜lable 
4417(US$ m˜ll˜on)
Total expend˜ture
2292(US$ m˜ll˜on)
In May 2017, by resolution WHA70.5, the Seventieth Health 

Assembly approved the Programme budget 2018Œ2019 

for a total of US$ 4421.5 million. Base programmes 
represent 77% of the approved Programme budget, or 
US$ 3400.3 million. The remaining Programme budget 
(US$ 1021.2 million) was for polio and special programmes.    
The graph above summarizes the approved budget, funds 
available and expenditure, presented for the budget 
segments, namely: base programmes, polio, and special 

programmes. Funds available comprise the revenue 

recorded in the current biennium, together with the funds 

brought forward from the previous biennium, less any funds 

carried forward to the next biennium.  For the biennium 

2018Œ2019, there was no approved budget for humanitarian 

response plans and other appeals due to the event-driven 

nature of this segment of the budget. There is therefore no 

budget level against which to compare available resources 

or expenditure.
Total funds available for 2018 for all budget segments were 

US$ 4417 million, of which US$ 2668 million was available 

for base programmes (representing 78% of the total budget 

for that segment). 
The graph above also includes a split between the two 
major types of financing for the programme budget. 

Specified funding comprises voluntary contributions that 

are tightly earmarked for detailed activity or expenditure 

line reporting. Flexible funding comprises assessed 

contributions, voluntary contributions - core, core voluntary 

contributions account (CVCA) and programme support 
1 See documents A72/37 and A72/INF./5 for further
 details.
costs.
1 Financing from specified funding represents 58% of 
the base programme and 99% of polio, special programmes 

and humanitarian response plans and other appeals. 
The graph on the next page summarizes the following, by 
budget segment and major office: the approved budget, 
available financing and expenditure. There continues to be 
a disparity in the financing of the Programme budget across 
major offices, as well as across segments, categories 
and programme areas (see the category chapters of this 

report). Headquarters is usually the best funded of the 

major offices. Although the Programme budget as a whole 

is well-funded at a global level, and the technical progress 

of almost all programme areas is rated as being on track 

to achieve their objectives for the biennium, a significant 

proportion of programme areas across all major offices 

nevertheless cited constraints in funding as a potential risk 

for the full achievement of results by the end of biennium. 
Expenditure appears to be limited where funding is 
unpredictable. This constrains long-term planning, 

especially human resources planning. Insufficient 

flexibility of funds can cause misalignment between 

financial resources and the Programme budget. However, 

comparisons over the past two decades indicate that the 

scale of this misalignment has actually decreased in the 

longer
 term.
Further information on budget, funds available and 

expenditure Œ presented by major office, country office, 

category and programme area Œ is available through the WHO 

Programme Budget Portal 
(http://open.who.int/2018-19)
.Flex˜ble
Spec˜˛edApproved Budget
Funds 
ava˜lable
BASE
Expend˜tureBudgetPOLIOSPECIAL 
PROGRAMMESHUMANITARIAN 
RESPONSE PLANS 
AND OTHER APPEALS
155611123400Expend˜tureExpend˜tureExpend˜ture463732638BudgetBudgetBudget902118Funds 
ava˜lable
Funds 
ava˜lable
Funds 
ava˜lable
7541133787241713352050010001500
200025003000
3500
4000 81Budget, ˛nanc˜ng and expend˜ture for the 3-approved segments of the budget 
(Base, Pol˜o, Spec˜al programmes) and Human˜tar˜an response plans segment
Western Pac˜˛c
Approved budget
Funds ava˜lable
Expend˜tureBASE
POLIOSPECIAL 
PROGRAMMESHUMANITARIAN 
RESPONSE PLANS 
AND OTHER APPEALS
19012142105655328128982256336156214248631912941838100483411610111820912841725412325845640271421218131932831419919404817211811611653411696299Headquarters
Europe
South-East As˜aAfr˜ca
Amer˜cas
Eastern Med˜terranean
 82Assessed contr˜but˜onsCore voluntary contr˜but˜ons accountsVoluntary contr˜but˜ons - coreVoluntary contr˜but˜ons - spec˜˛edTop 20 contr˜butors to the Programme budget 2018 (US$ thousands)
Total revenue
2160(US$ m˜ll˜on)
 (or 79% of total 
revenue)  
Where ˜s WHO fund˜ng com˜ng from?
2 A full list of all 2018 voluntary contributions, by fund and by 
contributor are provided in document A72/INF./5
Total Programme budget revenue recorded for 2018 was 
US$ 2744 million, comprising assessed contributions 
from Member States of US$ 501 million and voluntary 
contributions of US$ 2243 million.
2The top 20 contributors, 
whose contributions account for 79% of total revenue, are 

summarized in the graph
 above.
Revenue by source
Member States continue to be the largest source of 
voluntary contributions, contributing 51% of total voluntary 
contributions in 2018. Contributions from philanthropic 
foundations decreased from 2017, when a sharp increase 

was recorded in contributions to the Global Polio 

Eradication
 Initiative.
 Academ˜c 
Inst˜tut˜ons<1% 9% Nongovernmental 
organ˜zat˜ons
 Un˜ted Nat˜ons, 
Intergovernmental 
Organ˜zat˜ons and 
Development Banks
16% Member States51%9%Partnersh˜ps
Revenue ˜n 2018, by source
Un˜ted States of Amer˜ca
B˜ll & Mel˜nda Gates Foundat˜on
Un˜ted K˜ngdom of Great Br˜ta˜nand Northern IrelandGermanyGAVI All˜ance
Un˜ted Nat˜ons O˝ce for the Coord˜nat˜on of 
Human˜tar˜an A˚a˜rs (UNOCHA)
JapanNat˜onal Ph˜lanthrop˜c Trust (NPT)
Rotary Internat˜onalEuropean Comm˜ss˜onKuwa˜t
Sweden
Austral˜a
Norway
Ch˜naCanadaRepubl˜c of KoreaFrance
Un˜ted Arab Em˜rates
100,000200,000300,000400,000Un˜ted Nat˜ons Central Emergency Response 
Fund (CERF)
 Ph˜lanthrop˜c Foundat˜ons13% 2%Pr˜vate 
Sector Ent˜t˜es  83Flex˜ble voluntary contr˜but˜ons
3 Details of CVCA and voluntary contributions Œ core are provided in document A72/INF./5.
4 This includes contributions from Luxembourg for noncommunicable diseases and health systems that are fully flexible and are 
normally recorded under CVCA. In 2018, these were recorded and reported in official documents as voluntary contributions Œ 
core and will be corrected in
 2019.
In 2018, total funding revenue from core voluntary 
contributions was US$ 181 million,
3including both 
CVCA and ﬁvoluntary contributions Œ coreﬂ.  Voluntary 

contributions Œ core includes funding earmarked for 
purposes within the Programme budget that is considered 
designated or medium level of flexibility.  CVCA funding 
is fully or highly flexible and is received to support the 
Programme budget as a whole. 
At US$ 89.7 million in 2018, voluntary contributions Œ core 
showed a significant increase compared with the level 

of US$ 13.7 million
3 in 2017. This was mainly due to the 
contributions from Germany.  The funding represented by 
voluntary contributions Œ core, which is also referred to as 
a ﬁthematic and strategic engagement fundingﬂ, has been 
negotiated at a corporate level to meet the strategic needs 

of both contributors and WHO, thereby providing more 

effective and efficient earmarked funding to
 WHO.
Specified resources form the bulk of WHO funding, but 

in areas where such resources do not cover full cost and 
have no flexibility for cross-cutting approaches, it can 
be hard to leverage full impact without catalytic use of 
CVCA.  CVCA offers an important flexibility for meeting 
otherwise unfunded requirements in all major offices and 
all categories, enabling critical strategic management of 
resources in order to deliver WHO´s programmatic results 
for the Health Assembly-approved Programme budget. 

on flexible funds, CVCA is used in conjunction with specified 
resources to leverage the full potential of the latter. 
The graph below summarizes the revenue of CVCA by donor 
for 2018. This stood at US$ 91 million
4(or 4% of the total 
Programme budget revenue). To date, contributions to the 
CVCA show an increase over 2017 (US$ 67 million) and 2016 
(US$ 81 million). However, the level of funding of CVCA is 

still well below target and earlier
 levels.
Contr˜butors to the Core voluntary contr˜but˜ons account for 2018 
 
(US$ m˜ll˜on)
010203040Norway
14.29Austral˜a
9.34Sw˜tzerland
2.51France
Luxembourg
0.372.08Denmark3.93Belg˜um4.01Estate of Mrs Ed˜th 
Chr˜st˜na Ferguson
0.26Sweden
17.65Un˜ted K˜ngdom of Great Br˜ta˜n and Northern Ireland31.74Netherlands5.00Monaco0.04Total core voluntary 
contr˜but˜ons91.22(US$ m˜ll˜on)
 84Human˜tar˜an response plans and other appealsPol˜o erad˜cat˜on
WHO health emergenc˜es programme
Corporate serv˜ces / enabl˜ng funct˜ons
Health through the l˜fe course
Noncommun˜cable d˜seases
Commun˜cable d˜seases
Health systems
Programme budget expenses, by major o˝ce and category, 2018
(US$ m˜ll˜on)
Headquarters
657mAmer˜cas
Afr˜ca
700600400300100635mEasternMed˜terranean
522m2292(US$ m˜ll˜on)
Total expenses
WesternPac˜˛c
116mEurope143mSouth-East As˜a152m67m200500Where ˜s WHO fund˜ng spent?
In 2018, total Programme budget expenditure was 
 US$ 2292 million, which represented a decrease of 4% 
from 2017 (US$ 2390 million). If the figures at the midpoint 

of the current biennium are compared with those at the 

midpoint of the previous biennium, expenditure increased 
by 5%. The graph below summarizes the expenditure by 
major office and by category. In 2018, base programmes 

represented 60% of expenditure (62% in 2017), and polio, 

emergencies and special programmes represented 40% 
(38% in
 2017).
Expenditure breakdown by category of work and budget 
segment varies significantly among major offices, shaped 

by the event-driven nature of the humanitarian response as 

well as by Polio eradication activities. For example, in the 

Eastern Mediterranean Region in 2018, 77% of expenditure 
was incurred on polio eradication and humanitarian 
response, and only 21% on base programmes.  
 85 Sta˚ costs 41% Med˜cal suppl˜es and mater˜als
 4% Contractual
 serv˜ces 29%Transfers and grants 
11%Travel: of wh˜ch 45% was 
 for sta˛ and 55% non-sta˛ 8%General operat˜ng expenses
 6% Equ˜pment, veh˜cles and furn˜ture
 1%Programme budget expenses by expend˜ture type ˜n 2018
Sta˙ costs
Staff costs form the largest expenditure type, representing 
41% of total costs in 2018. Staff costs increased by 1% 

compared with 2017 and by 4% compared with 2016.  

Increases were seen in the WHO Health Emergencies 

Programme and in WHO offices in countries, territories and 

areas experiencing emergencies.  
Contractual serv˜ces
The second-largest expenditure type is contractual 

services, representing 29% of total costs in 2018. Costs for 

these services decreased by 9% compared with 2017 and 

by 3% compared with 2016.  The decreases were mainly 

seen at headquarters and the in the Eastern Mediterranean 

Region.  In the Eastern Mediterranean Region, a shift away 

from contractual services towards transfers and grants 

(grants to nongovernmental organizations in emergency 

settings) was noted. In the African Region higher spending 

was noted in special services agreement and direct 

implementation activities due to polio (mainly in Nigeria) 

and direct implementation activities due to Ebola virus 

disease (Democratic Republic of the Congo).  
Travel
Travel expenses decreased by 1% from 2017 and by 4% 

from 2016. There was no reduction in the number of trips 

undertaken, but the price per trip decreased from 2017 

owing to changes in travel policy and better enforcement 

of that policy. In particular, the more stringent travel policy 

has reduced the average amount spent per ticket. Of 

total travel expenditure, only 45% was for staff travel, the 

rest was incurred for non-staff travel, mainly for meeting 

participants nominated by Member
 States.
Transfers and grants
In 2018, following a change in expenditure policy, 

transfers and grants to counterparts increased by 10% 

compared with 2017, and by 2% compared with 2016. 

Under the revised policy, since late 2017 equipment 

purchased for third parties (health ministries), which was 

previously reported under equipment, has been reported 

under transfers and grants. The reduction in the largest 

component of this expenditure category, namely Direct 

Financial Cooperation grants to Member States, which 

decreased by 20% from 2017, partially offsets the increase 

caused by equipment for third
 parties.
 