There is no space for what wells up from the sub...conscious; those dreams and images live in deep still water and simply submerge when the day gets scattered.
 -May Sarton See moreWords of Women4 November at 09:46I’m going to have to turn this Jessamyn West quote into a sticker.
 W...hy?
 Because it’s SO TRUE.
 In fact, I was just thinking about this the other day.
 How I build up things in my mind, things I have to do, until they start to scare me.
 Until I start to dread them.
 And when I eventually sit down and do the thing, it’s never half as bad as I built it up to be.
 I’ve realized so much of my fear is really just anticipation and the sooner I stop procrastinating and putting things off, the quicker my anxiety levels will drop.
 So I urge you today to just do the thing you’ve been putting off.
 Put the fear, and the task, to bed.
 See moreWords of Women4 November at 05:08I want to tell you a brief story, if I may.
 When I was a young actre...ss, 30 or so, I was on the way to my waitress job in my black pants and my white shirt and my black tie—glamour is not the word that would come to mind at all.
 Feminine?
 No.
 Nothing.
 I looked across the street, and there were several limousines parked outside the theater.
 And I looked at the marquee and it said, "About Last Night starring Elizabeth Perkins," who was my classmate.
 I was going to wait on tables, and she was going to a premiere of her film that would launch her into stardom.
 You have a number of choices using the tools described below.
 Some cookies are required in order to use Facebook.
 One of the ways Audience Network shows relevant ads is by using your ad preferences to determine which ads you may be interested in seeing.
 This helps us do things such as give you a more personalised experience on Facebook.
 As of 5 October 2020, you may find additional information about the controls offered by popular browsers at the links below.
 Certain parts of Facebook Products may not work properly if you have disabled browser cookies.
 You can review your cookie controls at any time.
 The most relevant comments will appear first.
 The most relevant comments will appear first.
