Skip to content           Who We Are  History &amp; Mission Supporters &amp; Collaborators Staff   What We Do  Clinical Services Translational Medicine Lab Services, Requirement &amp; Forms Library Our Research  Published Papers Diseases &amp; Mutations     Our Impact News  News &amp; Updates Newsletters Press Room   Events  CSC 5k   Contact  Careers Fellowships &amp; Internships   Store Give     Contact Press Room News Store Library              Fighting Genetic Illnesses with Cutting-Edge Research and Compassion Learn more about the Clinic &amp; what we do        2020 Extraordinary Give | Support the Clinic on Friday, November 20th!
 You can help make an EXTRAORDINARY difference!
 We’re counting down the days until the Extraordinary Give on...          Read more      CSC reduces glutaric acidemia type 1 (GA1) brain injury risk by 83% with therapies developed over 30 years of clinical experience             STRASBURG, PA - A new study summarizes over 30 years of clinical experience in the treatment and...          Read more      Enjoy CSC’s 2020 Fall Newsletter!
 The 2020 Fall edition of our newsletter details how we quickly diagnosed TJP2 in a young patient,...          Read more                   Schedule of Upcoming Events                    2020 Extraordinary Give                            November 20                        Event details »                        Thanksgiving | Office Closed                            November 27                        Event details »                        Christmas Holiday | Office Closed                            December 28                        Event details »             View all events     Follow Us on Facebook Comments Box SVG iconsUsed for the like, share, comment, and reaction iconsTWO WEEKS until the 2020 Extraordinary Give on November 20th - Lancaster's largest day of online giving!
 And I've devoted my life to that idea.
 Dr. Kevin A. Strauss, Medical Director              A Medical Home That Makes a Real Difference   Our clinic serves as a trusted medical home for Amish and Mennonite families working to prevent and treat genetic illness in their young children.
 The sturdy, timber-framed building was “raised” by the hands of those in the Anabaptist community it serves just outside of Strasburg, PA.
 Inside, it is filled with an array of high-tech gene sequencing tools that allow us to deliver highly personalized care—a precise treatment option for the right patient at the right time.
 Learn More about the Clinic’s Mission                    Patient Story       The Stoltzfus Family  “When Amanda was born we had no idea that she would be special or different,” Ada Ruth Stoltzfus explains of her daughter, Amanda.
 At around four months of age, Ada Ruth noticed that Amanda began to wake up frequently during the night and her quality of sleep declined drastically.
 In addition to sleep issues, Amanda started to itch and scratch herself constantly.
 Ada Ruth tried cutting her nails, changing laundry and bath soaps, and anything else she could think of to alleviate Amanda’s itching.
 “As soon as we would try to bathe her, she would start itching and wouldn’t be interested in anything other than scratching her belly,” Ada Ruth explains.
 When Amanda was six months of age, Ada Ruth heard of another family’s baby that had similar symptoms to Amanda.
 This family mentioned the possibility of vitamin K deficiency and recommended the Clinic for Special Children (CSC) to Ada Ruth, who then scheduled Amanda for her first visit shortly thereafter.
 The condition can cause symptoms like itching, jaundice, poor weight gain, and bruising.
 This condition is known to affect the Amish community so the CSC team knew the right test to order.
 Within hours, Amanda’s genetic test came back positive for TJP2.
 TJP2 is a disorder of the liver in which bile ducts are leaky and bile salts enter the bloodstream.
 When bile salts get into the bloodstream, it can cause extreme itchiness.
 In addition, fats from a person’s diet don’t absorb properly in the gut and can cause low levels of vitamins A, D, E, and K. When vitamin K is low, dangerous bleeding can occur.
 Amanda was immediately placed on ursodiol to help her liver congestion and a vitamin called AquADEKs® to replace the vitamins her body could not absorb.
 This medication resulted in slight improvements to her liver inflammation and itchiness.
 At Amanda’s next visit with Dr. Laura Poskitt, she was also placed on a medication called rifampin.
 Within a week after adding rifampin, Ada Ruth noticed a big difference in her daughter.
 “She was a lot happier, slept a lot better, and her scratching completely stopped,” Ada Ruth exclaimed.
 Today, Amanda is a happy baby who’s now teething, crawling, and pulling herself up.
 “We’re thankful that we were able to get an answer quickly with the Clinic,” says Ada Ruth.
 Thank you to the Stoltzfus family for sharing their story!
 Help us to continue to provide patients with timely, affordable and effective care!
 Our clinic serves as a trusted medical home for families working to prevent and treat genetic illness in their children.
 Serving predominantly Amish and Mennonite families, the sturdy, timber-framed building was "raised" by the hands of those in the Anabaptist community outside of Strasburg, PA.
 Inside the clinic is filled with an array of high-tech gene sequencing that allows us to deliver state of the art care in a nurturing environment.
 Support the Clinic                       535 Bunker Hill Road
 PO Box 128
 Strasburg, PA 17579                       Phone:          (717) 687-9407                Fax: (717) 687-9237        queries@clinicforspecialchildren.org      Forms Give News Careers Library  Published Papers Contact Research About the Clinic Store    Subscribe to our e-newsletters Subscribe  Follow us:              © 2020 Clinic for Special Children.
 Website by Infantree.
 The Clinic for Special Children is a Section     501(c)(3) Public Charity for US Federal and State Tax purposes (Tax ID #23-2555373).
 Donations to the     Clinic are tax deductible.
 Donors should consult their tax advisor for questions regarding     deductibility.
 A copy of the Clinic’s registration and financial information may be obtained from the PA     Department of State by calling toll free, 1-800-732-0999.
 Registration does not imply endorsement.
