Helen Y. Chu, an infectious disease expert in Seattle, knew that the United States did not have much time.In late January, the first confirmed American case of the coronavirus had landed in her area.
 Critical questions needed answers: Had the man infected anyone else?
 Was the deadly virus already lurking in other communities and spreading?As luck would have it, Dr. Chu had a way to monitor the region.
 For months, as part of a research project into the flu, she and a team of researchers had been collecting nasal swabs from residents experiencing symptoms throughout the Puget Sound region.To repurpose the tests for monitoring the coronavirus, they would need the support of state and federal officials.
 But nearly everywhere Dr. Chu turned, officials repeatedly rejected the idea, interviews and emails show, even as weeks crawled by and outbreaks emerged in countries outside of China, where the infection began.By Feb. 25, Dr. Chu and her colleagues could not bear to wait any longer.
 They began performing coronavirus tests, without government approval.What came back confirmed their worst fear.
 They quickly had a positive test from a local teenager with no recent travel history.
 The coronavirus had already established itself on American soil without anybody realizing it.“It must have been here this entire time,” Dr. Chu recalled thinking with dread.
 “It’s just everywhere already.”In fact, officials would later discover through testing, the virus had already contributed to the deaths of two people, and it would go on to kill 20 more in the Seattle region over the following days.Federal and state officials said the flu study could not be repurposed because it did not have explicit permission from research subjects; the labs were also not certified for clinical work.
 While acknowledging the ethical questions, Dr. Chu and others argued there should be more flexibility in an emergency during which so many lives could be lost.
 On Monday night, state regulators told them to stop testing altogether.The failure to tap into the flu study, detailed here for the first time, was just one in a series of missed chances by the federal government to ensure more widespread testing during the early days of the outbreak, when containment would have been easier.
 Instead, local officials across the country were left to work in the dark as the crisis grew undetected and exponentially.Even now, after weeks of mounting frustration toward federal agencies over flawed test kits and burdensome rules, states with growing cases such as New York and California are struggling to test widely for the coronavirus.
 The continued delays have made it impossible for officials to get a true picture of the scale of the growing outbreak, which has now spread to at least 36 states and Washington, D.C.Dr.
 Robert R. Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said in an interview on Friday that acting quickly was critical for combating an outbreak.
 “Time matters,” he said.He insisted that despite the rocky start, there was still time to beat back the coronavirus in the United States.
 “It’s going to take rigorous, aggressive public health — what I like to say, block and tackle, block and tackle, block and tackle, block and tackle,” he said.
 “That means if you find a new case, you isolate it.”But the Seattle Flu Study illustrates how existing regulations and red tape — sometimes designed to protect privacy and health — have impeded the rapid rollout of testing nationally, while other countries ramped up much earlier and faster.
 Faced with a public health emergency on a scale potentially not seen in a century, the United States has not responded nimbly.The C.D.C.’s own effort to create a system for monitoring the virus around the country, using established government surveillance networks for the flu, has not yet built steam.
 And as late as last week, after expanding authorizations for commercial and academic institutions to make tests, administration officials provided conflicting accounts of when a significant increase in tests would be available.In states like Maine, Missouri and Michigan, where there are few or no known infections, state public health officials say they have more than enough tests to meet demand.But it remains unclear how many Americans have been tested for the coronavirus.
 The C.D.C.
 says approximately 8,500 specimens or nose swabs have been taken since the beginning of the outbreak — a figure that is almost certainly larger than the number of people tested since one person can have multiple swabs.
 By comparison, South Korea, which discovered its first case around the same time as the United States, has reported having the capacity to test roughly 10,000 people a day since late February.ImageDr.
 Robert Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, insisted that despite the rocky start, there was still time to beat back the coronavirus in the United States.Credit...T.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York TimesListen to ‘The Daily’: Failing to Test for Coronavirus“Are we ready to respond to a pandemic?
 I fear the answer is no,” one senior U.S. health official said in 2018.transcriptBack to The Dailybars0:00/26:53-26:53transcriptListen to ‘The Daily’: Failing to Test for CoronavirusHosted by Michael Barbaro; produced by Annie Brown, Luke Vander Ploeg, and Adizah Eghan; with help from Daniel Guillemette and Robert Jimison; and edited by Lisa Tobin“Are we ready to respond to a pandemic?
 I fear the answer is no,” one senior U.S. health official said in 2018.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro.
 This is “The Daily.”Today: It was supposed to be a relatively simple part of preparing for the coronavirus in the United States — testing for it.
 My colleague Sheri Fink on what went wrong.It’s Wednesday, March 11.sheri finkSo in 2018, it was the hundredth anniversary of the terrible 1918 flu pandemic.
 This was called the Spanish flu.
 And it just killed millions and millions of people around the world.
 So on that hundredth-year anniversary, many gatherings were held to discuss the lessons of that flu pandemic for today.
 And there was this one gathering of high-level people in Atlanta, Georgia, where the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is based.
 And among the officials there was a group from the National Security Council.
 It had actually been created, a special unit on global health security that was created after that terrible Ebola outbreak in West Africa.archived recordingSo let’s begin with you, Dr. [INAUDIBLE].sheri finkSo one of the officials with that group, with that unit —archived recording (luciano borio)Well, it’s a pleasure to be here with so many of my colleagues.
 And we’ve been working together for more than a decade on these issues.sheri fink— she steps up to the podium and she says —archived recording (luciano borio)The threat of pandemic flu is our number one health security concern.We know that it cannot be stopped at the border.michael barbaroSo this is a pretty senior health official on the National Security Council warning her colleagues that there is a very predictable threat here — a pandemic flu and —archived recording (luciano borio)Are we ready to respond to a pandemic?
 I fear the answer is no.michael barbaro— in her words, the country is just not really ready for it.
 So we should do something about it.sheri finkExactly.
 And as it happens, the very next day, that global health security unit where she worked was shut down by a senior member of the Trump administration.
 So fast forward two years.
 And it’s early January, January 3.
 It’s a Friday.
 And the secretary of health and human services, Alex Azar, is at home in Washington.
 And he gets this phone call from Robert Redfield, this doctor who’s the head of the C.D.C.
 And Dr. Redfield tells Azar about these reports coming out of China, that there are these clusters of pneumonia cases, and that the likely culprit is a new coronavirus.
 And Alex Azar, the health and human services secretary, says, this is a very big deal.michael barbaroAnd what does Azar do with this information and this understanding that whatever this is, it’s going to be a big deal?sheri finkThe Trump administration officials start meeting every day in the basement of the West Wing.
 And so at first, they say, OK, let’s screen the flights that are coming from China.
 But there’s an even more serious question that comes up, which is, should we ban flights altogether?
 And should we deny entry to anybody who has come from China in the last 14 days, to anybody who isn’t a citizen or a permanent resident here?
 So then that debate got shifted right to the Oval Office.
 And the top health officials of the nation, at that point, were agreed.
 A ban from traveling from the center of this epidemic could buy us some time, could help us to prepare ourselves before this came.
 It could slow that down.
 The president asked, what could the consequences be on the economy?
 All logical things that you would probably ask.
 In the end, he sided with the aides who supported the idea that this could actually help protect our nation’s health.The problem was we weren’t completely prepared.
 Our government wasn’t completely prepared to use that time.michael barbaroWhat do you mean?sheri finkThe biggest issue that the government had to face was testing — being able to diagnose somebody who has this illness.michael barbaroAnd what is the problem with testing at this point?sheri finkWell, it didn’t seem like there would be a problem.
 Even though it was a new virus, the Chinese quickly made the sequence of it available.
 And labs were really quickly able to create a test for that, including the World Health Organization had already approved a test that was developed by some German scientists.
 But the U.S., which considers the C.D.C the world’s premier public health agency, they decided to make their own test.
 But it didn’t actually get F.D.A.
 approved until the first week of February.
 And at that point, it could be distributed to public health laboratories across the country.
 But, you know, now we’re already over a month into this scary new outbreak by that point.michael barbaroSo this is already off to a pretty slow start at a moment where every single day counts.sheri finkThat’s right.
 So now, we’re like a month into this thing.
 And they’re finally able to mail out the kits to public health laboratories around the country — state health laboratories, some big city health laboratories, this network of labs that our public health system has.
 And the next day — the first step that the labs have to do is they have to check that test.
 They have to what’s called “validate it,” make sure it’s working.
 And right that next day, the C.D.C starts getting reports from some of these public health labs, saying, we’re not able to validate this test.
 We’re having problems.
 We’re getting some inconclusive results.
 And that’s the first sign that something may have gone wrong.michael barbaroThis test is not working?sheri finkWell, the C.D.C says it was definitely working in their lab.
 So they’ve told all the labs across the country, if it’s not working for you, of course, don’t use it.
 Just send samples to us.
 Of course, that adds time.
 You have to collect a sample in your local area and then send it to Atlanta, and then wait for that result to come back.michael barbaroSo what impact does this testing snafu have at this point on our understanding of the epidemic?sheri finkIt just means that we don’t know.
 We actually don’t know.
 We say we have a low number of cases in this country at that point.
 But if you don’t test, how can you know?michael barbaroOK.
 And for these weeks where it seemed like we had cases in the low double digits in the United States, and there was a sense that things were quite stable and the danger was pretty low, the virus very well could have been spreading and spreading widely, and we wouldn’t have known.
 Because we weren’t doing the testing that would have told us that.sheri finkExactly.
 And here’s why.
 Because only a small proportion of people who get the virus get really, really sick, fortunately.
 But by the time that they get into a critical care bed at a hospital — and the doctors there are scratching their heads, and they’ve tested for all the known things that cause like pneumonia and severe, severe respiratory distress — weeks have gone by since that person was infected.
 So you’re actually looking at history.
 If you finally get a positive test at that point, then, yes, it has been spreading in the community.
 And that’s all that time that you lose.michael barbaroRight.
 So this time that the Trump administration had bought the American people with that dramatic step — with shutting its border to Chinese travelers — is kind of being squandered.sheri finkYeah, there were so many people who were starting to feel, at this point, like this time is being squandered.
 And we needed to get eyes on this.
 There were travelers coming from parts of the world where we didn’t have a travel ban that now had a large number of cases.
 And they weren’t being screened at the airports.
 They were going out into the communities.
 And there was just this urgency of being able to test more.
 And that’s when this one group of doctors and researchers took matters into their own hands.michael barbaroWe’ll be right back.
 [music]michael barbaroSheri, who is this doctor?sheri finkSo her name is Helen Chu.
 [phone dialing]helen chuHello?
 This is Helen.sheri finkHi, Helen.
 How are you doing?helen chuI’m doing well.
 How are you?sheri finkI’m well.
 Thanks.sheri finkShe’s a physician and a researcher in Washington state, which is where the first case of coronavirus was detected in the U.S. back in January.
 And she and her colleagues see a potential solution to this testing problem in their own work.helen chuWe had a study in place that was set up for detection of respiratory viral illnesses in the community —sheri finkShe specializes in studying how viruses pass from person-to-person within that same community.
 And she and her colleagues have this big study where they’re collecting all these samples.helen chu— from people who are sick, and then testing them in the lab for flu and other respiratory viruses.sheri finkAnd through collecting hundreds and hundreds of samples every week, they’re trying to track the spread of viruses.michael barbaroAnd she was in the middle of collecting samples when the coronavirus arrives in Washington?sheri finkThat is right.helen chuSo we had this infrastructure in place already, essentially, in the Seattle area to be able to detect early entry of a virus into the city and then to understand how it spread.michael barbaroAnd that sounds like it would make her very well positioned to do the same thing for the coronavirus.sheri finkExactly.
 She thought of that.
 The state health officials knew about their project.
 And they immediately thought about the potential of this project to help with this issue of testing.michael barbaroAnd so what happens?sheri finkThey make their own coronavirus test really fast.
 And they’re ready to go to help the state by the first week of February.
 But there’s one hitch.helen chuWe had to go through regulatory clearance, essentially.
 We had to talk to C.D.C.
 We had to talk to F.D.A..sheri finkThey don’t have the approval to test and then give those results out for two reasons.
 One is they’re not a clinical lab, so they don’t have the regulatory approval for that.
 And number two is they’ve just created this new coronavirus test, which isn’t yet F.D.A.
 approved.helen chuAnd so we were at a point where we could test thousands and thousands of samples at very high throughput.
 But we didn’t know what to do when we found a positive.sheri finkSo there’s good reason to have some of those regulations in place.
 But they figure, this is a public health emergency.
 And they feel like there’s got to be some way around this bureaucratic red tape, where they could at least screen these samples and get that information out to the public health authorities to confirm that test, whatever it is.
 But —helen chuEverybody felt very hesitant about us being able to provide results or to do the testing at all.sheri fink— the C.D.C doesn’t seem to find a way around it.
 Weeks go by.
 And they’re getting more and more frustrated.
 And they’re seeing the outbreak is growing in China, and it’s spreading to other countries.
 So we know there’s a potential for it to be an outbreak not just in China.helen chuWe had the information.
 We had the data there sitting in our lab where we could actually answer the question.
 And that was frustrating, that we could answer it.
 We had the capacity to answer it, but we couldn’t move forward, because we didn’t know what to do.sheri finkThey feel like they’re sitting on a gold mine.
 And they feel like the virus very well could be out there.
 After all, there had been this case in Washington state more than a month earlier, and nobody’s had eyes on it.
 Nobody’s been doing surveillance in the community, testing samples.
 So they’re getting more and more nervous.
 Is there something we’re not seeing?
 Because we’re not really testing very widely.michael barbaroSo what did they end up doing?
 Just kind of keeping those samples on ice and doing nothing?sheri finkWell, at first, that’s what they did.
 Because they thought they could speak with these officials and find out some official workaround, so that they wouldn’t be violating regulations and get in trouble.helen chuEveryone wanted to be able to do this the proper way — to go through C.D.C and state labs and have them have the high capacity to do the testing of all of these patients who really needed a diagnosis.
 But it just couldn’t be done.sheri finkAnd then it gets to February 25.
 I mean, the month is almost gone.
 It’s more than a month since that first case.
 And they finally just said —helen chuWhat we would do is move forward with research testing only.sheri fink— we’re going to start using this unapproved coronavirus test that we have, and that we believe is very reliable, and start testing these samples.michael barbaroWow.
 So they’re just going for it?sheri finkWell, they’re just going for it.
 And technically, they can test, right?
 But the issue is, they can’t report the results.helen chuSo what we would do would just be to go ahead and test the samples for coronavirus, but not to associate that with the information from the sample.
 So the clinical information.michael barbaroSo they have a plan to test for the coronavirus.
 And if they find it, that would mean that they’re sitting on information that they’re not supposed to have.sheri finkThey’re sitting on information that they’re not supposed to communicate because of these regulatory issues.
 It’s all going to be fine as long as they don’t find a case.michael barbaroOK, so once they decided to do that, what happened?sheri finkWhat happened was, one of the very first days that they started testing —helen chuFebruary 27, we got the first positive.sheri fink— they found a case.helen chuWhat I thought was, oh, no.
 If it came up that early in our testing, that meant that it had probably been here for a while and that we just didn’t know that it was there.
 And so the questions racing through my head at that point where, what is the right thing to do right now?
 And so what happened at that point was that we rapidly convened a meeting of the investigators.sheri finkThe group just convenes.
 They all get on the phone.
 And they talk about ethics at this point.helen chuWe talked through the ethics of the different options — keep it to ourselves, tell public health, or tell the participants.
 And what we are allowed to do was to keep it to ourselves.
 But what we felt like we needed to do was to tell public health.
 And so that’s what we did.sheri finkThey decide that the most ethical thing is to report the result to the local health authority.
 They confirmed the result.
 And it’s this local teenager in the very same county as that first positive case, but no known link to that person and no travel history.
 And that next morning, the public health lab went out and they found this teenager, who was feeling better by that point.
 Because he had had a mild form of this illness, which is most common, especially in young people.
 And they get to him just after he walks into his school, because he’s —michael barbaroOh, wow.sheri finkYeah.
 And they end up shutting the school down to make sure that nobody else will catch the virus.helen chuI mean, that was a good moment for our team, I thought.
 You know, we did something that didn’t follow the rules, but we were able to prevent spread in a high school.
 And that seemed really important.michael barbaroSo because of the doctor’s actions, they catch him, basically, in the nick of time.sheri finkThey do.
 And they also realize that they may have a big problem on their hands.
 Because if this case descended from that first case, if that person potentially had infected somebody without knowing it, and then there was mild illness going on, and nobody caught it, there could be hundreds of cases in the area.
 And so that gave them the information that they needed to start acting, to start looking more seriously for the virus in the community.michael barbaroI wonder.
 Had Dr. Chu not broken the rules in this case, how that would have changed how we understand the coronavirus in the Seattle region?sheri finkWell, we wouldn’t have known, until the people started dying, that there was a problem.
 And unfortunately, the really sad thing is that that happened really soon after that.
 And so if Dr. Chu and her colleagues had been able to test sooner, they would have been able to alert the authorities earlier.
 And that’s the real tragedy here.michael barbaroSheri, on the one hand, the story that you have just told — it’s a pretty heroic story of a doctor willing to go against the rules, the instructions, because she felt that it was needed in the moment, in the midst of a public health crisis.
 On the other hand, it feels risky for the lesson here to be that medical professionals should go rogue in the middle of a crisis.
 I mean, what in your mind is the lesson here?sheri finkI mean, I’m somebody who’s reported on disasters for many years and used to do some disaster response myself.
 And I’ve always seen in crises that thinking outside the box can really solve problems and it can save lives.
 And I think we generally accept that already, that the rules do have to bend, that people need to think creatively.
 And one of the reasons they have to do it — and it was so evident here — was that the larger system, the official responders, the official system in place couldn’t do everything and was faltering.michael barbaroBut I wonder, how much would things potentially have been different, Sheri, if, thinking back to the start of our conversation, those government programs — the National Security Council’s health program, for example — hadn’t been cut?
 I mean, how much does that reflect an overall approach to this epidemic from the people currently in charge from the Trump administration?sheri finkI think you can trace it back further than that.
 It is a pattern that these programs, when there’s a crisis, they get really well funded.
 And as soon as Ebola recedes into history, we start cutting those parts of government.
 You can look back after the anthrax attacks and 9/11.
 And there was all this money that went into bioterrorism preparedness and hospital preparedness.
 And then you look at the numbers, and they go down over time.
 This is a reaction of humanity and society and government, is to sort of like — when it’s in the news and it’s fresh in our minds, we invest in it, and then we turn away.
 So I feel like this is a pattern.
 And when this happens, and we have these gaps in our preparedness that the government always seems to have, what I have found over and over again as a reporter is regular people step in and fill some of those holes.
 And I’m thinking — right now I have this image of Hurricane Katrina and government officials not being able to rescue everybody who needed help all at once.
 People waving towels off of rooftops and people stuck in hospitals.
 And then it was these regular people who had airboats, who were fishermen from western Louisiana.
 And they show up, and they just take people to dry ground.
 I’ve seen examples like that over and over.
 In this case, we saw Dr. Chu and her colleagues doing something like that.
 But, what I found out today on the phone with Dr. Chu was that —helen chuYesterday, the Washington state regulators called their lab and asked us to shut down.sheri fink— the project got shut down again.
 So the state regulators told them they can’t keep doing this.
 So it looks like the government isn’t going to allow this to continue to fill that hole.
 And so that hole remains.
 [music]sheri finkThe question is whether this will be one of those lessons that comes out of this particular outbreak.
 And of course, there will be a tomorrow.
 There will be a day where we’re not in the midst of something so frightening that we’re in right now.
 And the question is, will this fit that same cycle where we say, we’ve learned the lesson, we need to kind of innovate and come up with new systems that will ensure that we’re on a better footing, that we can have some backup system so that we can roll out testing as a country much more quickly?
 Or will this fit that same cycle, where once the immediate danger goes away, we stop investing, or we just forget?michael barbaroSheri, thank you.sheri finkThank you.michael barbaroA few days ago, my colleague Peter Baker asked President Trump whether he regrets eliminating the global health unit of the National Security Council in light of the coronavirus epidemic.donald trumpI just think this is something, Peter, that you can never really think is going to happen.
 I’ve heard all about, this could be a big deal, from before it happened.
 Something like this could happen.michael barbaroThe president claimed, despite past warnings from federal health officials, that such an epidemic was previously unimaginable.donald trumpBut who would have thought?
 Look, how long ago was it?
 Six, seven, eight weeks ago, who would have thought we’d even be having this subject?
 We were going to hit 30,000 on the Dow like it was clockwork, right?michael barbaroWe’ll be right back.
 [music]michael barbaroHere’s what else you need to know today.
 On Tuesday, public and private institutions across the United States took their strongest measures yet to limit the spread of the coronavirus.
 Major airlines, including Delta and American Airlines, said they would drastically cut back on international flights.
 And the nursing home industry issued a recommendation to bar visits from family and friends after deadly outbreaks inside of five nursing homes around Seattle.
 In New York, officials have created a containment cell around the source of a major outbreak in the city of New Rochelle, north of New York City, ordering schools, community centers and houses of worship within the zone to close for the next two weeks and deploying the National Guard inside the containment area.
 And in California, a cruise ship with at least 21 infected passengers docked in Oakland, where it was met by workers in protective gear, who took those on board to a nearby military base in the largest quarantine operation so far on American soil.
 For the results of Tuesday night’s Democratic primaries, which were held in six states, listen to this morning’s episode of “The Latest.” You can find it on “The Daily” feed or by searching for “The Latest,” wherever you listen.
 [music]That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro.
 See you tomorrow.
 I fear the answer is no,” one senior U.S. health official said in 2018.
 “That’s our prime mission,” Dr. Redfield said, “to get eyes on this thing.”The agency also released criteria for deciding which individuals should be tested for the virus — at first only those who had a fever and respiratory issues and had traveled from the outbreak’s origin in Wuhan, China.The criteria were so strict that the sick man in the Seattle area who had visited Wuhan did not meet it.
 Still, worried state health officials pushed to get him checked, and the C.D.C.
 agreed.
 Local officials sent a sample to Atlanta and the results came back positive.Officials monitored 70 people who were in contact with the man, including 50 who consented to getting nose swabs, and none tested positive for the coronavirus.
 But there was still the possibility that someone had been missed, said Dr. Scott Lindquist, the state epidemiologist for communicable diseases.Around this time, the Washington State Department of Health began discussions with the Seattle Flu Study already going on in the state.But there was a hitch: The flu project primarily used research laboratories, not clinical ones, and its coronavirus test was not approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
 And so the group was not certified to provide test results to anyone outside of their own investigators.
 They began discussions with state, C.D.C.
 and F.D.A.
 officials to figure out a solution, according to emails and interviews.Dr.
 Scott F. Dowell, a former high-ranking C.D.C.
 official and a current deputy director at the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, which funds the Seattle Flu Study, asked for help from the leaders of the C.D.C.’s coronavirus response.
 “Hoping there is a solution,” he wrote on Feb. 10.Later, Dr. Lindquist, the state epidemiologist in Washington, wrote an email to Dr. Alicia Fry, the chief of the C.D.C.’s epidemiology and prevention branch, requesting the study be used to test for the coronavirus.C.D.C.
 officials repeatedly said it would not be possible.
 “If you want to use your test as a screening tool, you would have to check with F.D.A.,” Gayle Langley, an officer at the C.D.C.’s National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Disease, wrote back in an email on Feb. 16.
 But the F.D.A.
 could not offer the approval because the lab was not certified as a clinical laboratory under regulations established by the Centers for Medicare &amp; Medicaid Services, a process that could take months.Dr.
 Chu and Dr. Lindquist tried repeatedly to wrangle approval to use the Seattle Flu Study.
 The answers were always no.“We felt like we were sitting, waiting for the pandemic to emerge,” Dr. Chu said.
 “We could help.
 We couldn’t do anything.”ImageThe C.D.C.’s laboratory test kit for the new coronavirus.Credit...CDC, via Associated PressSense of exasperationAs Washington State debated with the federal officials over what to do, the C.D.C.
 confronted the daunting task of testing more widely for the coronavirus.The C.D.C.
 had designed its own test as it typically does during an outbreak.
 Several other countries also developed their own tests.But when the C.D.C.
 shipped test kits to public labs across the country, some local health officials began reporting that the test was producing invalid results.The C.D.C.
 promised that replacement kits would be distributed within days, but the problem stretched on for over two weeks.
 Only five state laboratories were able to test in that period.
 Washington and New York were not among them.By Feb. 24, as new cases of the virus began popping up in the United States, the state labs were growing frantic.The Association of Public Health Laboratories made what it called an “extraordinary and rare request” of Dr. Stephen Hahn, the commissioner of the F.D.A., asking him to use his discretion to allow state and local public health laboratories to create their own tests for the virus.“We are now many weeks into the response with still no diagnostic or surveillance test available outside of C.D.C.
 for the vast majority of our member laboratories,” Scott Becker, the chief executive of the association, wrote in a letter to Dr. Hahn.Dr.
 Let us help:Antibody: A protein produced by the immune system that can recognize and attach precisely to specific kinds of viruses, bacteria, or other invaders.Antibody test/serology test: A test that detects antibodies specific to the coronavirus.
 Antibodies begin to appear in the blood about a week after the coronavirus has infected the body.
 Because antibodies take so long to develop, an antibody test can’t reliably diagnose an ongoing infection.
 But it can identify people who have been exposed to the coronavirus in the past.Antigen test: This test detects bits of coronavirus proteins called antigens.
 Antigen tests are fast, taking as little as five minutes, but are less accurate than tests that detect genetic material from the virus.Coronavirus: Any virus that belongs to the Orthocoronavirinae family of viruses.
 The coronavirus that causes Covid-19 is known as SARS-CoV-2.
 Covid-19: The disease caused by the new coronavirus.
 The name is short for coronavirus disease 2019.Isolation and quarantine: Isolation is the separation of people who know they are sick with a contagious disease from those who are not sick.
 Quarantine refers to restricting the movement of people who have been exposed to a virus.Nasopharyngeal swab: A long, flexible stick, tipped with a soft swab, that is inserted deep into the nose to get samples from the space where the nasal cavity meets the throat.
 Samples for coronavirus tests can also be collected with swabs that do not go as deep into the nose — sometimes called nasal swabs — or oral or throat swabs.Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR): Scientists use PCR to make millions of copies of genetic material in a sample.
 Tests that use PCR enable researchers to detect the coronavirus even when it is scarce.Viral load: The amount of virus in a person’s body.
 In people infected by the coronavirus, the viral load may peak before they start to show symptoms, if symptoms appear at all.
 Private and university clinical laboratories, which typically have the latitude to develop their own tests, were frustrated about the speed of the F.D.A.
 as they prepared applications for emergency approvals from the agency for their coronavirus tests.Dr.
 Alex Greninger, an assistant professor at the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle, said he became exasperated in mid-February as he communicated with the F.D.A.
 over getting his application ready to begin testing.
 “This virus is faster than the F.D.A.,” he said, adding that at one point the agency required him to submit materials through the mail in addition to over email.New tests typically require validation — running the test on known positive samples from a patient or a copy of the virus genome.
 The F.D.A.’s process called for five.
 Obtaining such samples has been hard because most hospital labs have not seen coronavirus cases yet, said Dr. Karen Kaul, chair of the department of pathology and laboratory medicine at NorthShore University HealthSystem in Illinois.She said she had to scramble to obtain virus RNA from a laboratory in Europe.
 “Everyone is trying to figure out what we can get to help us gather the data that we need,” she said.The F.D.A.
 has disputed that it moved too slowly, saying that it provided emergency authorization for two laboratory-developed tests within 24 hours of a completed submission — one was the C.D.C.’s test and the other a test developed by New York’s Wadsworth laboratory after it had trouble verifying the C.D.C.’s test.‘What do we do?’On the other side of the country in Seattle, Dr. Chu and her flu study colleagues, unwilling to wait any longer, decided to begin running samples.A technician in the laboratory of Dr. Lea Starita who was testing samples soon got a hit.“I’m like, ‘Oh my God,’” Dr. Starita said.
 “I just took off running” to the office of the study’s program managers.
 “We got one,” she told them.
 “What do we do?”Members of the research group discussed the ethics of what to do next.“What we were allowed to do was to keep it to ourselves,” Dr. Chu said.
 “But what we felt like we needed to do was to tell public health.”They decided the right thing to do was to inform local health officials.The case was a teenager, in the same county where the first coronavirus case had surfaced, who had a flu swab just a few days before but had no travel history and no link to any known case.The state laboratory, finally able to begin testing, confirmed the result the next morning.
 The teenager, who had recovered from his illness, was located and informed just after he entered his school building.
 He was sent home and the school was later closed as a precaution.Later that day, the investigators and Seattle health officials gathered with representatives of the C.D.C.
 and the F.D.A.
 to discuss what happened.
 The message from the federal government was blunt.
 “What they said on that phone call very clearly was cease and desist to Helen Chu,” Dr. Lindquist remembered.
 “Stop testing.”A silent spreadStill, the troubling finding reshaped how officials understood the outbreak.
 There was a good chance that the virus had been circulating silently in the community for around six weeks, infecting potentially hundreds of people.On a phone call the day after the C.D.C.
 and F.D.A.
 had told Dr. Chu to stop, officials relented, but only partially, the researchers recalled.
 They would allow the study’s laboratories to test cases and report the results only in future samples.
 They would need to use a new consent form that explicitly mentioned that results of the coronavirus tests might be shared with the local health department.They were not to test the thousands of samples that had already been collected.The same day, the F.D.A.
 said it would relax its rules and allow clinical labs to begin using their own coronavirus tests as long as they submitted evidence that they worked to the agency.
 Under that new policy, according to an agency representative on Tuesday, it had heard from 14 labs, with 10 already beginning patient testing.On March 2, the Seattle Flu Study’s institutional review board at the University of Washington determined that it would be unethical for the researchers not to test and report the results in a public health emergency, Dr. Starita said.
 Since then, her laboratory has found and reported numerous additional cases, all of which have been confirmed.As new samples came in, Dr. Starita’s laboratory also worked their way backward through some older samples that had been sitting in the freezers for weeks, finding cases that date back to at least Feb. 20 — seven days before public health officials had any idea the virus was in the community.The scientists said they believe that they will find evidence that the virus was infecting people even earlier, and that they could have alerted authorities sooner if they had been allowed to test.But on Monday night, state regulators, enforcing Medicare rules, stepped in and again told them to stop until they could finish getting certified as a clinical laboratory, a process that could take many weeks.In the days since the teenager’s test, the Seattle region has spun into crisis, with dozens of people testing positive and at least 22 dying — many of them infected in a nursing home that had unknowingly been suffering casualties since Feb. 19.ImageCommuters during evening rush hour in New York City last week.Credit...Hiroko Masuike/The New York TimesThe availability of testing for coronavirus remains uneven, with some people able to easily obtain tests in certain parts of the country while others have been turned away.
 Some state officials fear that the virus is spreading far faster than the capacity for testing is increasing.Looking back, Dr. Chu said she understood why the regulations that stymied the flu study’s efforts for weeks existed.
 “Those protections are in place for a reason,” she said.
 “You want to protect human subjects.
 You want to do things in an ethical way.”The frustration, she said, was how long it took to cut through red tape to try to save lives in an outbreak that had the potential to explode in Washington State and spread in many other regions.
 “I don’t think people knew that back then,” she said.
 Helen Y. Chu, an infectious disease expert in Seattle, knew that the United States did not have much time.
 Critical questions needed answers: Had the man infected anyone else?
 Was the deadly virus already lurking in other communities and spreading?
 For months, as part of a research project into the flu, she and a team of researchers had been collecting nasal swabs from residents experiencing symptoms throughout the Puget Sound region.
 But nearly everywhere Dr. Chu turned, officials repeatedly rejected the idea, interviews and emails show, even as weeks crawled by and outbreaks emerged in countries outside of China, where the infection began.
 They began performing coronavirus tests, without government approval.
 They quickly had a positive test from a local teenager with no recent travel history.
 The coronavirus had already established itself on American soil without anybody realizing it.
 While acknowledging the ethical questions, Dr. Chu and others argued there should be more flexibility in an emergency during which so many lives could be lost.
 On Monday night, state regulators told them to stop testing altogether.
 Instead, local officials across the country were left to work in the dark as the crisis grew undetected and exponentially.
 “Time matters,” he said.
 “It’s going to take rigorous, aggressive public health — what I like to say, block and tackle, block and tackle, block and tackle, block and tackle,” he said.
 Faced with a public health emergency on a scale potentially not seen in a century, the United States has not responded nimbly.
 And as late as last week, after expanding authorizations for commercial and academic institutions to make tests, administration officials provided conflicting accounts of when a significant increase in tests would be available.
 But there is anguish that the next sneeze might be the fateful one.
 Robert Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, insisted that despite the rocky start, there was still time to beat back the coronavirus in the United States.
 I fear the answer is no,” one senior U.S. health official said in 2018.
 Twenty minutes a day, five days a week, hosted by Michael Barbaro and powered by New York Times journalism.
 [INAUDIBLE].
 And Dr. Redfield tells Azar about these reports coming out of China, that there are these clusters of pneumonia cases, and that the likely culprit is a new coronavirus.
 approved until the first week of February.
 approved.
 And it's this local teenager in the very same county as that first positive case, but no known link to that person and no travel history.
 Still, worried state health officials pushed to get him checked, and the C.D.C.
 agreed.
 But there was still the possibility that someone had been missed, said Dr. Scott Lindquist, the state epidemiologist for communicable diseases.
 And so the group was not certified to provide test results to anyone outside of their own investigators.
 They began discussions with state, C.D.C.
 and F.D.A.
 Scott F. Dowell, a former high-ranking C.D.C.
 official and a current deputy director at the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, which funds the Seattle Flu Study, asked for help from the leaders of the C.D.C.’s coronavirus response.
 “Hoping there is a solution,” he wrote on Feb.
 10.
 officials repeatedly said it would not be possible.
 “If you want to use your test as a screening tool, you would have to check with F.D.A.,” Gayle Langley, an officer at the C.D.C.’s National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Disease, wrote back in an email on Feb. 16.
 But the F.D.A.
 Chu and Dr. Lindquist tried repeatedly to wrangle approval to use the Seattle Flu Study.
 The answers were always no.
 “We could help.
 confronted the daunting task of testing more widely for the coronavirus.
 had designed its own test as it typically does during an outbreak.
 Several other countries also developed their own tests.
 shipped test kits to public labs across the country, some local health officials began reporting that the test was producing invalid results.
 promised that replacement kits would be distributed within days, but the problem stretched on for over two weeks.
 Only five state laboratories were able to test in that period.
 Washington and New York were not among them.
 for the vast majority of our member laboratories,” Scott Becker, the chief executive of the association, wrote in a letter to Dr.
 Hahn responded two days later, saying in a letter that “false diagnostic test results can lead to significant adverse public health consequences” and that the laboratories were welcome to submit their own tests for emergency authorization.
 Private and university clinical laboratories, which typically have the latitude to develop their own tests, were frustrated about the speed of the F.D.A.
 Alex Greninger, an assistant professor at the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle, said he became exasperated in mid-February as he communicated with the F.D.A.
 over getting his application ready to begin testing.
 “This virus is faster than the F.D.A.,” he said, adding that at one point the agency required him to submit materials through the mail in addition to over email.
 The F.D.A.’s process called for five.
 Obtaining such samples has been hard because most hospital labs have not seen coronavirus cases yet, said Dr. Karen Kaul, chair of the department of pathology and laboratory medicine at NorthShore University HealthSystem in Illinois.
 “Everyone is trying to figure out what we can get to help us gather the data that we need,” she said.
 has disputed that it moved too slowly, saying that it provided emergency authorization for two laboratory-developed tests within 24 hours of a completed submission — one was the C.D.C.’s test and the other a test developed by New York’s Wadsworth laboratory after it had trouble verifying the C.D.C.’s test.
 “I just took off running” to the office of the study’s program managers.
 “We got one,” she told them.
 The teenager, who had recovered from his illness, was located and informed just after he entered his school building.
 He was sent home and the school was later closed as a precaution.
 and the F.D.A.
 to discuss what happened.
 The message from the federal government was blunt.
 “What they said on that phone call very clearly was cease and desist to Helen Chu,” Dr. Lindquist remembered.
 There was a good chance that the virus had been circulating silently in the community for around six weeks, infecting potentially hundreds of people.
 and F.D.A.
 had told Dr. Chu to stop, officials relented, but only partially, the researchers recalled.
 They would allow the study’s laboratories to test cases and report the results only in future samples.
 They would need to use a new consent form that explicitly mentioned that results of the coronavirus tests might be shared with the local health department.
 Under that new policy, according to an agency representative on Tuesday, it had heard from 14 labs, with 10 already beginning patient testing.
 Since then, her laboratory has found and reported numerous additional cases, all of which have been confirmed.
 19.
 Some state officials fear that the virus is spreading far faster than the capacity for testing is increasing.
 “Those protections are in place for a reason,” she said.
 “You want to protect human subjects.
 “I don’t think people knew that back then,” she said.
 Expands Coronavirus Testing in the United States","promotionalSummary":"The agency announced that it would allow hundreds of labs to test for the virus, circumventing the C.D.C.’s centralized testing system and making it likely that cases will be detected faster.
 Over Delays in Testing","promotionalSummary":"As the number of cases statewide rises to 105, the governor said it’s “outrageous” that a Long Island lab has not been authorized to test.
 Antibodies begin to appear in the blood about a week after the coronavirus has infected the body.
