Book an Online Community Screening             An IndieFlix Original Documentary   Angst: Anxiety Disorders are Real, Common, and Treatable.... Let's Talk About It!
 What People Are Saying   Watch the trailer   Watch a Few Clips   Take the Anxiety Quiz   Subscribe to #MyMonday       Angst is an IndieFlix Original, documentary designed to raise awareness around anxiety.
 The film includes interviews with kids, teens, educators, experts, parents and a very special interview with Michael Phelps.
 Our goal specifically is to help people identify and understand the symptoms of anxiety and encourage them to reach out for help.
 Angst screens in schools, communities and theaters around the world.
 The film and corresponding materials provide tools, resources and above all, hope.
 Build Up Your Community     Is anxiety affecting you and the people living in your community?
 Help break the stigma around anxiety and get the discussion started today.
 Book an online screening    Now Available Online.
 You can now screen Angst online from the comfort of your home.
 We believe the power of film-based programs create conversations that can truly change the world.
 Learn More          Angst has been featured in...
 The Today Show, ABC news, People Magazine, Men'sHealth, the Associated Press, and more!
 Announcing the Learners Edge Online Course  Learn More &amp; Register      Here's what people are saying about Angst!
 Experts, Educators &amp; Public Figures      "Angst is inspirational; the courageous effort made by teens in the film to face their fears and become competent in coping is heart-warming and breath-taking."
 Dr. Laura Kastner   "I welcomed the opportunity to be a part of Angst to further the dialogue around mental health and to help people understand the impact anxiety has on our mental state and encourage people, especially kids, to ask for help."
 Michael Phelps   "I also find that anxiety is a debilitating disease with our students and wanted to share your vision and hope with them. "
 John H., Counselor, Gordon Bell High School        Students, Teens &amp; Parents      "So glad my dad got to see this movie now he knows I'm not making it up."
 9 year old student - Chicago, IL   "I wish this film had existed when I was growing up it would've saved me and my family a lot of heartache."
 Father of 3 kids - NYC   "I never knew that what I was experiencing was severe anxiety I'm so grateful to know that there is treatment."
 18 year old college student - Seattle, WA   "It's powerful, spot-on, genuine, educational and hopeful.
 Well done!!"
 Shelly at Temple Beth Ami, Maryland     Read More Quotes »        Angst Gallery                                           Resources, Tools and Help We know anxiety can cause you, your loved ones, and your friends a lot of stress.
 Here are some of the resources we believe can help.
 This list has been examined by experts in the mental health field and will continue to grow.
 Please note these are just recommendations, and not "one size fits all".
 Common Questions             Find Therapists             Helpful Websites             Apps             Videos             Articles             Books        If you or someone you know is feeling anxiety it's important to tell a family member, friend, teacher or counselor.
 Reach out to someone who can help, and in an emergency call 911, or text the Crisis text line 741741.
 Sign up to receive periodic updates, special screenings, and news.
 Your donation will help provide screening events in under-served communities around the world.
 Donate               		© Copyright document.write(new Date().getFullYear()) IndieFlix Foundation
