Skip to main content         Menu    Veterinary Genetics Laboratory                            Open Search  Close Search    Search the site:          Main navigation (extended config)   DNA Tests+   Cat Tests   Dog Tests   Horse Tests   Additional Species Tests   Meat ID Test   Parentage   Bulk Rates and Discounts   Fair and Expo Livestock DNA Matching   Registry/Association Testing     Forensics+   About   Forensics FAQ   Submit a Case   Evidence Collection+   By Case Type   By Sample Type     CANINE CODIS   Forensics News     Research+   VGL Researchers+   Felipe Avila, Ph.D.   Rebecca Bellone, Ph.D.
 Rob Grahn, Ph.D.   Niels Pedersen, DVM, Ph.D.   Ben Sacks, Ph.D.   Mark Statham, Ph.D.     UCD VGL Affiliates+   Carrie J. Finno, DVM, Ph.D.   Leslie Lyons, Ph.D.   Elizabeth A. Maga, Ph.D.   James D. Murray, Ph.D.   Anita M. Oberbauer, Ph.D.   Joshua Stern, DVM, Ph.D.     Research News   STRand Analysis Software+   Download   FAQ       Resources+   Genetics Glossary   Coat Color+   Cat Coat Color   Dog Coat Color   Horse Coat Color     Guide to Sample Collection+   Sample Collection for Genetic Testing   Sample Collection for Forensic Analysis     Forensics Resources   FAQs+   DNA Tests FAQ   Forensics FAQ     Ann T. Bowling Fellowship   Learning Activities     News   About+   Contact   Mission   Why Test at the VGL   Meet the Team   History   Accreditation/Affiliation   Terms and Conditions     Contact       MyVGL Login     Veterinary Genetics Laboratory          Vet Med Links   +      Vet Med Home   Giving   Contact / Directions   News   Admissions   Alumni   Faculty   Future Veterinary Medical Center   Vet Med Extension   Jobs   Campus Directory   Canvas   VIPER   VMACS                   Wolf-Dog Hybrid Test         Breadcrumb   Home        Wolf-Dog Hybrid Test                 Quick Summary     Wolf-dog hybrids have been produced by crossing wolves with wolf-like dog breeds.
 The VGL wolf-hybrid test consists of 3-4 types of assays (depending on whether animals are female or male) and analyses and is powerful enough to detect hybrids within 3 generations.
 A wolf-dog hybridWolf-dog hybrids have been produced by crossing wolves with wolf-like dog breeds such as Siberian Husky, German Shepherd, and Alaskan Malamute.
 Occasionally natural wolf-dog hybrids occur, usually when a female dog in estrus strays and is mated by a wild male wolf.
 Many states in the US restrict wolf-dog hybrids as pets, due to the unpredictable temperament of these canids.
 It has been estimated that there are upwards of 300,000 wolf-dog hybrids in the US.
 The VGL wolf-hybrid test consists of 3-4 types of assays (depending on whether animals are female or male) and analyses: Y-chromosome haplotype, X-chromosome haplotype, wolf-specific DNA markers and population analysis of DNA markers.
 Below is a more detailed description: Males are tested with Y-chromosome markers and results compared to our database of known wolf and dog haplotypes.
 Results are reported as Dog, Wolf, Inconclusive (if found in both dogs and wolves) or Not-Applicable (if female).
 Males and females are tested with X-chromosome markers and results compared to our database of known wolf and dog haplotypes.
 Results are reported as Dog, Wolf, Hybrid (if female).
 Wolf-specific alleles in our STR marker panel are also infrequent in wolves such that not all wolves possess these alleles.
 Although our test is powerful to detect hybridization, absence of wolf-specific alleles is not a guarantee that there is no wolf ancestry.
 Population analyses are done with panels of 38 STR and 30 SNP (Single Nucleotide Polymorphism) markers.
 Genotype data is compared to a database for Alaskan Husky, Siberian Husky, Alaskan Malamute, Inuit dogs, Belgian Malinois, German Shepherds and North American Wolves.
 The dog breeds were chosen because they are commonly used to produce hybrids in North America.
 Population assignment and admixture analyses determine the likelihood that the subject animal is a dog, wolf, or hybrid.
 Results are reported as Dog, Wolf, or Hybrid.
 The dog-wolf hybrid test is powerful enough to detect hybrids within 3 generations.
 Because of the close genetic relationship among dogs and wolves, wolf ancestry beyond 3 generations may be undetectable by these tests.
 Note: The test does not provide an analysis of breeds contributing to the animal tested nor does it provide percentage of wolf ancestry.
 Price $120 one test per animal      Order Test        Turnaround Time 10-15 business days       Type of Sample  Cytology Brush - supplied by VGL at no additional charge       Species  Wolf      Type of Test  Other       Results Reported As Results are reported as “Dog”, “Wolf”, or “Hybrid”.
 Contact the VGL About Contact Tests    Connect with us on social media                                Emergency Contact Vet Med Vet Med News &amp; Events View our Vet Med Publications Vet Med Extension Shop UC Davis Vet Med Website Issues       Make a Gift to the UC Davis School of Veterinary Medicine                    School of Veterinary Medicine - Social Media Hub           VIPERFacultyAlumniFuture Veterinary Medical CenterCampus Directory                 Privacy &amp; Accessibility Principles of Community University of California  Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus.
 All rights reserved.
 This site is officially grown in SiteFarm.
