      
      
              
   
             
       
       
               
   2 PROPYLENE GLYCOL 
1.
 PUBLIC HEALTH STATEMENT 
colors and flavors, and in the paint and plastics industries.  Propylene glycol is also used to 
create artificial smoke or fog used in fire
-fighting training and in theatrical productions.  Other 
names for propylene glycol are 1,2-dihydroxypropane, 1,2-propanediol, methyl glycol, and 

trimethyl glycol. 
Propylene glycol is clear, colorless, slightly syrupy liquid at room temperature.  It may exist in 
air in the vapor form, although propylene glycol must be heated or briskly shaken to produce a 
vapor.  Propylene glycol is practic
ally odorless and tasteless. 
For more information on the sources, properties, and uses of propylene glycol, see Chapters 3 
and 4. 
1.2  
WHAT HAPPENS TO PROPYLENE GLYCOL WHEN IT ENTERS THE 
ENVIRONMENT 
Waste streams from the manufacture of propylene glyco
l are primarily responsible for the 
releases into the air, water, and soil.  Propylene glycol can enter the environment when it is used 
as a runway and aircraft de
-icing agent.  Propylene glycol can also enter the environment through 
the disposal of produc
ts that contains it.  It is not likely to exist in large amounts in the air.  We 
have little information about what happens to propylene glycol in the air.  The small amounts 
that may enter the air are likely to break down quickly.  If it escapes into the 
air, it will take 
between 24 and 50 hours for half the amount released to break down.  Propylene glycol can mix 

completely with water and can soak into soil.  It can break down relatively quickly (within 
several days to a week) in surface water and in soil
.  Propylene glycol can also travel from 
certain types of food packages into the food in the package.  See Chapters 4 and 5 for more 

information on propylene glycol in the environment. 
1.3  
HOW MIGHT I BE EXPOSED TO PROPYLENE GLYCOL? 
Propylene glycol has been approved for use at certain levels in food, cosmetics, and 
pharmaceutical products. If you eat food products, use cosmetics, or take medicines that contain 
it, you will be exposed to propylene glycol, but these amounts are not generally considered 
       
      
            
        
                   
         
          3 PROPYLENE GLYCOL 
1.
 PUBLIC HEALTH STATEMENT 
harmful.  People who work in industries that use propylene glycol may be exposed by touching 
these products or inhaling mists from spraying them.  These exposures tend to be at low levels, 
however.  Propylene glycol is used to make artificial smoke and mis
ts for fire safety training, 
theatrical performances, and rock concerts.  These artificial smoke products may also be used by 

private citizens.  These products are frequently used in enclosed spaces, where exposure may be 
more intense. 
See Chapter 5 for m
ore information on exposure to propylene glycol. 
1.4  
HOW CAN PROPYLENE GLYCOL ENTER AND LEAVE MY BODY? 
Propylene glycol can enter your bloodstream if you breathe air containing mists or vapors from 
either compound.  It can also enter your bloodstream through your skin if you come in direct 
contact with it and do not wash it off.  If you eat products that contain propylene glycol, it may 
enter your bloodstream.  Exposure of the general population to propylene glycol is likely since 
many foods, drugs, and 
cosmetics contain it. 
Propylene glycol breaks down in the body in about 48 hours.  However, studies of people and 
animals show that if you have repeated eye, skin, nasal, or oral exposures to propylene glycol for 
a short time, you may develop some irrita
tion. 
1.5  
HOW CAN PROPYLENE GLYCOL AFFECT MY HEALTH? 
Propylene glycol breaks down at the same rate as ethylene glycol, although it does not form 

harmful crystals when it breaks down.  Frequent skin exposure to propylene glycol can 
sometimes irritate th
e skin. 
1.6  
ARE THERE MEDICAL TESTS TO DETERMINE WHETHER I HAVE BEEN 
EXPOSED TO PROPYLENE GLYCOL? 
Propylene glycol is generally considered to be a safe chemical, and is not routinely tested for, 

unless specific exposure, such as to a medicine or cosmet
ic, can be linked with the observed bad 
       
      
                   
         
   
         4 PROPYLENE GLYCOL 
1.
 PUBLIC HEALTH STATEMENT 
symptoms.  Since propylene glycol breaks down very quickly in the body, it is very difficult to 
detect.  Refer to Chapters 2 and 6 for more information on these tests. 
1.7  
WHAT RECOMMENDATIONS HAS THE FEDERAL GOVE
RNMENT MADE TO 
PROTECT HUMAN HEALTH? 
The government has developed regulations and guidelines for propylene glycol.  These are 
designed to protect the public from potential adverse health effects. 
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has classified prop
ylene glycol as ﬁgenerally 
recognized as safe,ﬂ which means that it is acceptable for use in flavorings, drugs, and cosmetics, 
and as a direct food additive.  According to the World Health Organization, the acceptable 
dietary intake of propylene glycol is 25 mg of propylene glycol for every kilogram (kg) of body 
weight.  For more information on the regulations and guidelines that apply to propylene glycol, 
see Chapter 7. 
1.8  
WHERE CAN I GET MORE INFORMATION? 
If you have any more questions or concerns, p
lease contact your community or state health or 
environmental quality department, or contact ATSDR at the address and phone number below. 
ATSDR can also tell you the location of occupational and environmental health clinics.  These 
clinics specialize in recognizing, evaluating, and treating illnesses that result from exposure to 
hazardous substances. 
Toxicological profiles are also available on
-line at www.atsdr.cdc.gov and on CD-ROM.  
You 
may request a copy of the ATSDR ToxProfilesTM CD
-ROM by calling the toll
-free information 
       
      
     
   
   
    
   
   
   
       
     
   
  
  
    
  5 PROPYLENE GLYCOL 
1.
 PUBLIC HEALTH STATEMENT 
and technical assistance number at 1
-800-
CDCINFO (1
-800-232-4636), by e-
mail at 
cdcinfo@cdc.gov
, or by writing to: 
Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry 
Division of Toxicology and Environmental Medicine 

1600 Clif
ton Road NE 
Mailstop F
-32 
Atlanta, GA 30333 

Fax: 1
-770-488-4178 
Organizations for-
profit may request copies of final Toxicological Profiles from the following: 
National Technical Information Service (NTIS)

5285 Port Royal Road

Springfield, VA 22161

Phone: 1-800-553-6847 
or 1
-703-605-6000
Web site:  
http://www.ntis.gov
/