skip to page content       
 
 	Attention A T users.
 To access the menus on this page please perform the following steps.
 1.
 Please switch auto forms mode to off.
 2.
 Hit enter to expand a main menu option (Health, Benefits, etc).
 3.
 To enter and activate the submenu links, hit the down arrow.
 You will now be able to tab or arrow up or down through the submenu options to access/activate the submenu links.
 Get help from Veterans Crisis Line    Locator Contact Search  Contact Us FAQs Ask a Question Toll Free Numbers   Locator Hospitals and Clinics Vet Centers Regional Benefits Offices Regional Loan Centers Cemetery Locations         Get help from Veterans Crisis Line    Search       Enter your search textButton to start search          site map [a-z]                       More VA      More VA       Health     Health Care Information A-Z Health Topic Finder My HealtheVet Prescriptions Refills Schedule a VA Appointment Crisis Prevention Mental Health PTSD Public Health VA MISSION Act          Benefits     General Benefits Information Disability Compensation Pension GI Bill ® Vocational Rehabilitation &amp; Employment Dependents' Educational Assistance Survivor Benefits Home Loans Life Insurance Appeals Modernization          Burials &amp; Memorials     Cemetery Services Burials Headstones Markers &amp; Medallions Presidential Memorial Certificates Cemeteries Nationwide Gravesite Locator Burial Flags Burial Allowance         About VA    Inside VA  Secretary of VA Executive Biographies Organizations History    Budget and Performance  VA Plans, Budget, &amp; Performance VA Center for Innovation (VACI) Agency Financial Report (AFR) Budget Submission Recovery Act       Resources     Business Congressional Affairs Jobs Benefits Booklet Data &amp; Statistics VA Open Data  VA App Store National Resource Directory Veterans Service Organizations Office of Accountability &amp; Whistleblower Protection Transparency       Media Room    Inside the Media Room  Public Affairs News Releases Speeches Videos Publications    National Observances  Veterans Day Memorial Day Celebrating America's Freedoms    Special Events  Adaptive Sports Program Creative Arts Festival Golden Age Games Summer Sports Clinic Training - Exposure - Experience (TEE) Tournament Wheelchair Games Winter Sports Clinic       Locations     Hospitals &amp; Clinics Vet Centers Regional Benefits Offices Regional Loan Centers Cemetery Locations       Contact Us     FAQs Ask a Question Toll Free Numbers                   
       Attention A T users.
 To access the combo box on this page please perform the following steps.
 1.
 Press the alt key and then the down arrow.
 2.
 Use the up and down arrows to navigate this combo box.
 3.
 Press enter on the item you wish to view.
 This will take you to the page listed.
 I AM A...
 Select One Veteran Active Duty Service Member  Caregiver/Family Member  Dependent/Survivor  National Guard/Reserve  Clinician/Researcher/Trainee        Menu   Menu  For Veterans  Benefit Information  Agent Orange Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) eBenefits Benefit &amp; Claim Status (Registration Required) Disability Benefits Questionnaires (DBQ) Unemployability/TDIU Fiduciary Program Pensions   Identification Card (VIC) Claims  Benefits (Registration Required) Appeals   Direct Deposit   Beneficiary Enrollment Form 24-0296 (PDF)   Education  Veterans Retraining Assistance Program (VRAP) Web Automated Verification of Enrollment (W.A.V.E.)
 Review tables for additional information.
 The Veteran Population Model  The Veteran Population Projection Model 2018 (VetPop2018) provides the latest official Veteran population projection from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
 VetPop2018 is a deterministic projection model developed by the office of Predictive Analytics to estimate and project the Veteran Population from Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 to FY2048.
 Using the best available Veteran data at the end of FY2018 as the base population.
 See VetPop2018 A Brief Description and more detailed information will be provided later.
 2020 Memorial Day Visualization  The 2020 Memorial Day Visualization highlights survivors use of VA benefits: Dependency and Indemnity, Compensation, Home Loan Guaranty, Survivors' Pension and Education..    Veterans Day 2019: Veterans Keep On Serving  The Veterans Day 2019 Infographic highlights how Veterans continue to serve in the Federal Government and the private sector.
 Veteran Population Infographic  The VetPop2018 Infographic displays charts, graphs, maps to visualize data of the Veteran Population Projection Model 2018 (VetPop2018).
 VetPop16 provides the latest official Veteran population by key demographic characteristics such as age/generations, gender, period of service and race/ethnicity at the national, state and Congressional District levels for the next 30 years.
 The VetPop2019 Infographic describes the Veteran Population Projection Model used to estimate and project the numbers and characteristics of the Veteran population.
 It includes projecting the number of Veteran records out into the future for 30-years.
 Veterans Day 2018: A World War I Visualization  The WW1 Infographic shows how occupations of WWI Veterans in 1930 have evolved and changed from the Gulf War I Era Veterans' occupations in 2008.
 Memorial Day 2019: VA Honors All Who Have Served and Died  This Memorial Day 2019 Infographic illustrates the sacrifice of America's Veterans during the battle, other deaths while in service, and after leaving the military.
 The infographic also provides key statistics on how VA's National Cemetery Administration memorializes Veterans.
 Demographic Characteristics of Veterans Who Separated in 2011 and 2017  The Demographic Characteristics data table provides a brief demographic profile of Veterans who separated from the military at two points in time: 2011 and 2017.
 It contains distributions on age, sex/ethnicity, and military component.
 What’s New!
 VA released VA Utilization Profile 2017 This profile provides demographic, socio-economic, and utilization trends of Veterans who used at least one VA benefit or service each year between FY 2008 and FY 2017.
 Also included is a comparison of Veterans who used VA benefits to Veterans who did not use VA benefits.
 May 29, 2020  VA released 2020 Memorial Day Visualization The 2020 Memorial Day Visualization highlights survivors use of VA benefits: Dependency and Indemnity, Compensation, Home Loan Guaranty, Survivors' Pension, and Education.
 May 21, 2020  VA released American Indian and Alaska Native Veterans: 2017 (AIAN) This report focuses on demographic, socioeconomic, and health characteristics of AIAN Veterans and presents similar summary information for all Veterans of other races.
 May 15, 2020 VA released Veteran Population Projection Model: VetPop2018.
 This release is the latest in a series of Veteran Population Projection Models that provide the estimated and projected total number of Veterans and their demographic characteristics.
 May 14, 2020 VA released Geographic Distribution of VA Expenditures (GDX) GDX reports expenditures for Compensation and Pension, Construction, Education &amp; Vocational Rehabilitation/Employment, Loan Guaranty, General Operating Expenses, Insurance &amp; Indemnities, Medical Care and Unique Patients.
 April 30, 2020       Note:  You may need to visit the VA Viewer Software page to view the documents available on this page.
 To download any of the tables on this page, right click on the associated link and select “Save Target As.”  Then, save the document to the location of your choice.
 return to top             Resources   NCVAS Home About NCVAS Veteran Population Quick Facts Reports State Summaries Maps Expenditures Utilization Surveys Additional Sources of Data About Veterans Frequently Asked Questions Glossary NCVAS Pocket Cards Peer Review      Contact VA   For more information on reports, surveys, or statistics regarding the Veteran population, please e-mail us vancvas@va.gov.
 Congressional inquiries, please e-mail vacocls@va.gov.
 Press inquiries, please e-mail VAPublicAffairs@va.gov or call 202-461-7600.
 Quick Links   Office of Enterprise Integration VA Open Data Data.gov                        CONNECT   Veterans Crisis Line: 1-800-273-8255 (Press 1) Social Media           Complete Directory   EMAIL UPDATES    Email Address Required   Button to subscribe to email         VA HOME   Notices Privacy FOIA Regulations Web Policies No FEAR Act Whistleblower Rights &amp; Protections Site Index USA.gov White House Inspector General      QUICK LIST   Apply for Benefits Apply for Health Care Prescriptions My HealtheVet eBenefits Life Insurance Online Applications VA Forms State and Local Resources Strat Plan FY 2014-2020  VA Plans, Budget, &amp; Performance VA Claims Representation      RESOURCES   Careers at VA Employment Center Returning Service Members Vocational Rehabilitation &amp; Employment Homeless Veterans Women Veterans Minority Veterans Plain Language Surviving Spouses &amp; Dependents Adaptive Sports Program      ADMINISTRATION   Veterans Health Administration Veterans Benefits Administration National Cemetery Administration         U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs | 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington DC 20420 Last updated August 5, 2020      Get help from Veterans Crisis Line    Call 1-800-273-8255 (Press 1)  Text to 838255  Chat confidentially now  If you are in crisis or having thoughts of suicide,
 	visit VeteransCrisisLine.net for more resources.
 Close this modal
