A lot of work has gone into making this a reality and I was glad to play a part.
 Now, let’s #JustWinBaby!Governor Steve Sisolak10K views · 21 September2:14This Labor Day weekend, please protect yourselves and one another.
 Avoid large gatherings, practice social distancing and wear a face covering.Governor Steve Sisolak21K views · 5 September0:46I wanted to take a moment &amp; remind Nevadans of a new tool launched this week, COVID Trace.
 This free, voluntary smartphone app is another tool to help with contact tracing and another way to alert you that you may have been in contact with someone who tested positive for COVID19.
 It was designed with privacy in mind, which was important to the developers and to me.
 Other states are starting to launch similar apps, too.
 Learn more at NVHealthResponse.nv.gov/Covid traceGovernor Steve Sisolak22K views · 26 August2:20Today is the 1st day of school for many districts, including @NSHE, @ClarkCountySch, Carson City, Mineral, Nye, Pershing &amp; Storey.
 Churchill goes back tomorrow.
 We know this is a new &amp; strange time, but we must remember to be kind &amp; curious learners to make this a great year.Governor Steve Sisolak16K views · 24 August1:26‪Here are some simple tips @NVEnergy recommends to help conserve power today to help offset energy supply issues caused by record-breaking heat in the Western US‬Governor Steve Sisolak15K views · 19 August0:31‪Nevada211.org is a free and easy way to locate resources near you including, housing, food, transportation, childcare and more.
 Call, visit the website or download the app.
 Learn more here: ‬Governor Steve Sisolak17K views · 21 July0:33Please listen to the following message from Dr. Stephanie Wooddard at @DhhsNevada about resources available to help manage stress, isolation and anxiety during this time.
 Text "care" to 839863Governor Steve Sisolak15K views · 20 July0:36Private PipkinsGovernor Steve Sisolak17K views · 15 July0:44Thank you Dr. Ponce from Nevada DHHS for this important PSA to our Spanish-speaking community.Governor Steve Sisolak12K views · 12 JulyRelated PagesSee allSteve Sisolak30,673 followers · Government officialFOX5 Las Vegas796,622 followers · TV channelLas Vegas Review-Journal298,527 followers · Media/news companyDetr Nevada6,116 followers · Government officialKSNV News 3, Las Vegas276,704 followers · Broadcasting &amp; media production company8 News Now434,410 followers · Broadcasting &amp; media production companyKTNV Channel 13 Action News546,124 followers · Broadcasting &amp; media production companyThe Nevada Independent10,570 followers · Non-profit organisationDonald J. Trump33,835,400 followers · Political candidateKOLO 8 News Now176,528 followers · Broadcasting &amp; media production companyCongresswoman Dina Titus18,363 followers · PoliticianSteven Horsford11,445 followers · PoliticianVideo transcriptGood evening Fellow Nevadans As a state, we are taking informed proactive and necessary measures to protect each other and to mitigate the spread of this virus.
 These measures create new difficulties and that is not lost on me, but they are made out of necessity and my greatest hope is by making the tough choices.
 Now we can save lives and all return to normal, see sooner.
 But while there's no doubt that times are tough, I'm uplifted every day by the examples I see of my fellow Nevadans who are staying home for.
 State and helping their families and their neighbors do the same through acts of extraordinary kindness.
 I'm constantly seeing so much good in every corner of the Silver State and that battle born spirit must continue, especially as we see our numbers rise day today the enemy we're fighting cannot be seen.
 We can't hear it coming.
 There are no warning alarms or sirens when it's close.
 So it's critical that as a state, we remain on high alert with our defenses up to do everything we can to hold the enemy off and eventually push it back We.
 Must remain vigilant.
 You've heard it from me and you've heard it from medical experts and other leaders across our country.
 The best way to stop the spread of this virus is to practice aggressive social distancing and to keep large groups of people.
 Apart of this virus is persistent and can spread invisibly.
 It kill it on surfaces for up to 70 - two hours or more.
 That's why distance is so important.
 It's our number one defense and I'm The vast majority of Nevada are taking the service life by practicing good social distancing and staying at home, but unfortunately, there are some who still don't understand the severity of the issue.
 We're facing and they continue to gather in groups and congregate further increasing the risk of exposure in our communities.
 Well, I don't believe is their intent to harm their neighbors.
 The reality is we need the tools to address those circumstances where people are engaged in reckless action that endangers the public health of our state.
 That's why today I signed an emergency directive prohibiting the general public from gathering in groups of 10 or more in any indoor or outdoor public space.
 This includes but is not limited to social clubs, parks, libraries, parking lots, sports fields and more to be clear.
 This does not mean your home.
 This is not to prevent your household members from going for a walk.
 If you live inside together, you can be outside together.
 Additionally, this measure does not apply to our state's homeless population.
 Local governments are further directed to limit the public's use of recreational equipment where more than 10 people together and be closer than six feet apart.
 That includes but is not limited to playgrounds, basketball courts and baseball fields.
 Evans, who wish to enjoy a great outdoors, can still do so, but we must do so safely to prevent the spread of this disease.
 You may enjoy a daily walk.
 In the Park with others in your household, but please maintain a safe distance from those that are also enjoying the public spaces and do not touch any of equipment where the virus may be lurking.
 The intent of this directive is to help not to punish while this directive does come with consequences for those who feel to comply.
 law enforcement has to give warnings before moving to more drastic measures such as civil or criminal penalties my goal throughout this whole.
 Crisis has been to provide for the health and safety of defence and I've partnered with Attorney General Aaron Ford was working with local law enforcement agencies across the state to ensure they understand the intent of this directive and how to implement appropriately as your governor.
 I understand that every choice I make has real-life consequences for the citizens of the state for each and everyone of you.
 that is not lost.
 That mean I wake up every morning thinking about the impacts of my decisions.
 But here's what I know whenever I'm faced with a tough choice.
 There are a lot of factors that I must consider, but none none are more important than public health before making a final decision.
 I ask myself will making this choice, save lives and help protect our health care system.
 When it came to this measure, The answer was yes, I know this is all moving very fast, but I assure you as I continue to make decision.
 I will remain focused on one singular question.
 Will this action prevent more Nevadans from dying from this virus?
 That's the goal by uniting together and fighting back against our invisible enemy.
 The more defense will protect and the sooner we'll be able to be open for business and get back to work before I take some questions.
 I wanna update the bands another work we have been doing in my office to protect the public today.
 We should guide us to ensure child care is prioritized for first responders and health care workers, so they continue to be on the front lines of fighting.
 19 crisis.
 I also signed an emergency regulation propagated by the board of Pharmacy to limit the hoarding of two certain drugs, chlorine and Hydro hydroxy clarity.
 While the two drugs served necessary medical purposes, there is no conclusive evidence at this time among Covey 19 experts or Nevada's own Medical health advisory team that the drugs provide treat.
 For 19 patients, the emergency regulation is aimed at preventing the hoarding of the drugs so those who actually need them can have access to that and the continued effort to be honest with the vans and share the information I have.
 I will soon be providing debate with daily updates and situation reports.
 Thank you.
 I will now take some questions.
 Governor You've had a lot of questions about testing, including the following question from Carrie Schwab, Sherry Swank, who asked.
 Can you clarify how testing is being conducted?
 I can qualified this way and I can answer this way.
 Nevada has submitted for request for Kobe 19 testing components.
 We have received zero shipments of Kobe 19 testing equipment survived components.
 Nevada has four pending requests for Covina 19 testing kits We need testing.
 Desperately I applaud our federal delegation for working so closely with me to make their request known in Washington, DC on Capitol Hill and the Vice President's of Corona Virus Task Force and to everybody that listened to them and they will continue to assist me and providing kids for our medical Center.
 The next question governor is about PPE or personal protective equipment.
 There have been multiple questions, but this one is from Colton Lock head at the Las Vegas Review Journal.
 If you would like to know where are we when it comes to getting more ventilators mask, PPE and other medical supplies for Nevada, Nevada has placed two large orders for PPE.
 the first story we placed we got 20 - five percent of the order deliver the second word will be placed We receive is pending.
 We expect to receive 20 - five percent of that order.
 Today our communities, the outreach has been incredible just today was notified.
 We desperately need the PES for our patients and our medical providers that are on the front end.
 We're asking their providers to risk their life on a daily basis.
 We need to do everything we can as US to provide them with the tools necessary.
 We've also had multiple questions about the ongoing construction products projects, including the following question from Jackie Costa at KTNV, who wants to know why is all construction deemed essential.
 A worker tested positive at the Resorts World site should the whole site be shut down for two weeks because of that, I'm aware of that test has made a word that result in the last 20 - four hours my officers reviewing this issue and we will come back with an update as soon as I have when I don't have an answer that question as I stand here today.
 The next question is for Michelle Price at the Wants to know has the governor asked the Department of Defense about setting up a military field hospital in Nevada.
 We have spoken with the Army Corps of Engineers on a regular basis.
 We spoken with our preview general, we spoken with the Vice President's office as relates to this.
 We've also had a few questions about the mission of the new Prius.
 Sector Task Force Austin Carter from KTNV asks How will this task force identify needs and deploy them?
 Well.
 I think the first need that they've identified came in an earlier question about PPE.
 we are desperately short of PPE.
 I know that I was told that the group that provided the Mass delivered 300 Mass to one of our local hospitals and the doctors virtually in tears as result of receiving them Mister Murray and the people that he is working with have access to people.
 I don't have access to he has access to content.
 Around the world, it can help provide us with some of this material and I appreciate his generosity in giving him this time to help us to obtain some of these things that are necessary.
 We're not getting what we need on the federal front and it's through no fault of our federal delegation because they're working hand in glove with my office to do everything they can to get it there but we need to provide for ourselves and that's what we're doing.
 The next question comes from Matthew Simon with KSM V News Three who wanted to check in with some questions regarding more.
 And rent payments in Nevada during the outbreak, he asked what is the extent of your authority when it comes to rent and mortgage payments is the state of Nevada able to provide any relief and have you been in contact with any businesses or agencies that can provide assistance.
 my response to that is I'm working immediately with the Attorney General's office.
 We have been working with the Attorney General's office to address this issue.
 He is researching the app the options that we have available to us and we'll come back with an answer to that.
 We have enough information to provide a sustained dancer and they can answer your question.
 The next question comes from Megan Messer leave the Nevada Independent.
 She would like to know if you think the Secretary of State made the right decision to hold the primary election entirely by mail Secretary suggested he called me when she made that decision she's elected official.
 I have the utmost respect for her the job that she does she did consult with the register of the clerks and all of the 17 counties as it relates to this decision.
 This is something that she informed me that they came to unanimous consent that they wanted to move forward with so I will respect her decisions related to that.
 The next question is from Jacqueline Shelter Fox Five.
 She says.
 Plenty of people have called Fox five, saying the unemployment website keeps crashing the phone lines are crashing and they have not been able to file unemployment for more than a week.
 she'd like to know what is being done to help Nevadans an urgent needs Well, I can tell you that Peter were these claims are handled.
 Are doing an incredible job that working 20 - 47.
 There are anecdotal situations where people having trouble with vital claim, but I can tell you from the enormous number of claims that we're getting the vast majority of people are getting through.
 I advise them to file it on the Internet.
 it's a lot easier to be done that way getting through the phone line is difficult that ties up what individual for an extended period of time, but I advise them to keep on trying and their benefits will not be will not be affected as The delay the next question is from Max Darrow of KSN, VA, who asked why cannabis dispensaries are considered essential and did not have to close the citizens of voters of the state of Nevada voted to make cannabis legal first.
 It was medical cannabis and it was recreational cannabis.
 I was in local government before I get to the final answer.
 I wanna give a shout out to my local government partners.
 I mean mayors and commissioners and city Council people across.
 State of going above and beyond to try to help us get through the situation and to help us enforce these directors that we put forward and I thank him for that and ask him to continue to to help us.
 But when I was on the County Commission, we're well aware of the fact that the policy was in place to have it medical first and then like I said, recreational recreational became available.
 a lot of folks decided to lapse their medical card.
 I do not wanna just.
 The people who previously had a medical card and then let it lapse so they're buying it recreationally, but it's not a delivery basis all.
 Next question is from Noah of Mountain West News Bureau.
 He says.
 My name has been determined to be essential during this time.
 Can you explain my minds are allowed to operate while other industries like gaming are not do you consider gold copper lithium or other materials to be essential in times of emergency.
 I do not claim to be an expert on mining.
 We are consulting with the professionals.
 the experts as it comes to that the same as we do with construction and we'll come back to you.
 When I have more information in a better answers relates to that industry.
 The next question is.
 John Sadler at the Las Vegas Sun, he would like to know how this order will affect lines around grocery stores.
 Well, you know we ask the grocery stores and and the pharmacies and all the convenience stores.
 Any business is currently open to please practice social distancing.
 I wanna thank the grocery stores that opened up early to give seniors a chance in our vulnerable population.
 A chance to get in I've had those stores.
 A lot of people have called me and texted and said they appreciate it.
 That's.
 Where they were able to get in the grocery stores, I asked to grocery stores to to please make sure that your patrons are practicing social distancing when they're in the stores.
 But while I give that out when we're talking about grocery stores, I wanna give a shout out to the to the grocery store clerks to the people that are stocking those shelves.
 to to everybody to the truck drivers.
 They keep the supply chain open to the grocery stores because without them it couldn't happen and and I also wanna make another request of my County and city partners.
 I grew up and kinda cut my teeth on well.
 Government and I know when I was at the County Commission, we put a restriction on delivery for a lot of our stores and grocery stores and pharmacies and whatnot oftentimes it was from eight to 48 to six, depending cuz the neighbors didn't want the trucks coming and having the BP coming when they went there and we put restrictions as result of that that I would ask those local jurisdictions to please look at putting a moratorium.
 We're lifting those restrictions at least on a temporary basis while we get through this because when we get a truck to the store.
 I needed a loaded as quickly as possible, so we can get that truck back on the road and continuing the supply chain.
 So I'd ask my partners in local government to please look at addressing that situation and help us out and this will be the last question for day for today, but I'd like the members of the media to know that if we haven't got to your question, we will be doing regular briefings going forward and we will continue to compile your questions for Governor Sisolak.
 so the final question today comes from Anthony Avalon Nada from.
 Tempo he'd like to know today President Trump said he hopes to reactivate the economy before Easter with Nevada be prepared to do that.
 let me start with this.
 I'm not a doctor.
 I am basing the decisions that I make on a daily basis and I can tell you these are not easy decisions cuz my wife, I've lost sleepless nights as relates to these decisions.
 any decision that we make about ending this shutting it down deescalating will be made in consultation with medical professionals.
 Or basing these decisions on facts and statistics, not an emotion or political game.
 I wanna thank everybody for joining us again.
 I hope I've been able to answer some questions.
 I wanna thank everybody.
 That's helped us by staying home from Nevada.
 That's taken this seriously.
 it's encouraging when I see the outreach in the community to their neighbors to their friends and on a regular basis, supporting their friends supporting our community and those who have not understood the severity of the disease.
 I ask you to please, please live.
 To me, we have doctors and nurses around the world that are died as result of providing service and this deep disease can only spread this virus can only spread if we help it to spread if we practice social discipline distancing.
 If we practice it diligently, we can prevent this virus from spreading, but that's incumbent upon each and everyone of us.
 It's not about you.
 It's about your parents.
 your grandparents your grandkids.
 It's about their.
 Please join me in taking this seriously and then staying home for Nevada.
 You can review your cookie controls at any time.
 You have a number of choices using the tools described below.
 Some cookies are required in order to use Facebook.
 One of the ways Audience Network shows relevant ads is by using your ad preferences to determine which ads you may be interested in seeing.
 This helps us do things such as give you a more personalised experience on Facebook.
 As of 5 October 2020, you may find additional information about the controls offered by popular browsers at the links below.
 Certain parts of Facebook Products may not work properly if you have disabled browser cookies.
 Check your connection and try again.
