Re-Evaluated SourcesSources PendingSubmit SourceRetired/Offline SitesPseudoscience Dictionary (New)         One America News Network (OAN)  Has this Media Source failed a fact check?
 LET US KNOW HERE.
 Share:      QUESTIONABLE SOURCE  A questionable source exhibits one or more of the following: extreme bias, consistent promotion of propaganda/conspiracies, poor or no sourcing to credible information, a complete lack of transparency and/or is fake news.
 Fake News is the deliberate attempt to publish hoaxes and/or disinformation for the purpose of profit or influence (Learn More).
 Sources listed in the Questionable Category may be very untrustworthy and should be fact checked on a per article basis.
 Please note sources on this list are not considered fake news unless specifically written in the reasoning section for that source.
 See all Questionable sources.
 Overall, we rate One America News Questionable based on far-right bias, lack of sourcing, promotion of conspiracy theories, and propaganda as well as numerous failed fact checks.
 OAN is not a credible news source.
 Detailed Report Reasoning: Far Right Bias, Poor Sourcing, Conspiracy Theories, Propaganda, Failed Fact Checks Country: USA World Press Freedom Rank: USA 45/180 History Founded in 2013, One America News Network (OANN), also referred to as One America News (OAN), is an American right-wing pay television news channel and website.
 According to the Washington Post since the election of Donald Trump OAN has become pro-Trump in coverage and a favorite news source for the President.
 The founder of OAN is Charles Herring who has said “Fox News has done a great job serving the center-right and independent audiences…But those who consider themselves liberal have a half dozen or more choices on TV each day from which to get their news.” OAN has been criticized for biased content that favors Donald Trump.
 On 10/10/2019, President Trump thanked OAN For Providing ‘Fair Coverage And Brilliant Reporting’.
 Funded by / Ownership According to their about page, “One America News Network is owned by Herring Networks, Inc.
 Herring Networks, Inc. is a family-owned and operated, an independent media company focused on providing high-quality national television programming to consumers via its national cable networks.” Herring Networks is owned by Robert Herring Sr. who is a Republican donor.
 One America News is funded through advertising and television subscription fees.
 Analysis / Bias In review, OAN is a far-right biased news channel and website that uses moderately loaded words in headlines and articles such as this: Sen. Schumer Refuses To Back Down On Border Wall Funding.
 This article does not offer sourcing at all.
 In another article Senate Floats Restrictions On Detentions Of Illegal Aliens In Government Spending Bill, there is again a lack of sourced information.
 One America News writes articles that are very short and easy to read.
 Their aim is to keep stories under 1 minute long.
 Story selection almost always favors the right and in particular President Donald Trump.
 An article in AdWeek describes how the owner of Herring Networks directs his newsroom to favor Trump: “According to internal emails, Herring has directed his channel to push Trump’s candidacy, scuttle stories about police shootings, encourage antiabortion stories, minimize coverage of Russian aggression, and steer away from the new president’s troubles, according to more than a dozen current and former producers, writers and anchors, as well as internal emails from Herring and his top news executives.” OAN has also promoted right-wing conspiracies such as the Seth Rich Murder and that there was no evidence of chemical attacks in Syria.
 Further, during the Coronavirus outbreak of 2020 they have frequently promoted misinformation as evidenced by the failed fact checks below.
 – FALSE Is an Increase in Recorded Crime in England and Wales Linked to ‘Radical Islamic Terror’?
 – MOSTLY FALSE Says Adam Schiff is “under investigation for Ukrainian Burisma oil connections.” – PANTS ON FIRE (12/10/2019) In January 2020, FBI Director Christopher Wray said that the bureau had illegally wiretapped Donald Trump and apologized for it.
 – FALSE (1/12/2020) Is it true that all non-emergent or so-called elective surgeries are banned due to the lockdowns put in place to help prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus?
 – MOSTLY FALSE (4/23/2020) “According to doctors with the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons over 90 percent of patients treated with hydroxychloroquine successfully recover from coronavirus.” – FALSE (5/11/2020) “The mainstream media pretended there was a deadly surge in COVID cases thanks to Wisconsinites voting.” – PANTS ON FIRE (5/12/2020) “Buffalo protester shoved by Police could be an ANTIFA provocateur.
 75 year old Martin Gugino was pushed away after appearing to scan police communications in order to black out the equipment … Was aiming scanner.
 Could be a set up?” – FALSE (6/9/2020) Does a “new” scientific paper definitively show that people aged 50-64 have a 1-in-19.1 million chance of dying from COVID-19?
 – FALSE (9/4/2020)  Overall, we rate One America News Questionable based on far-right bias, lack of sourcing, promotion of conspiracy theories, and propaganda as well as numerous failed fact checks.
 OAN is not a credible news source.
 (10/12/2016) (D. Van Zandt 09/10/2020) Source: https://www.oann.com
