Instead, she said she and Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican leader, would have a bipartisan group of lawmakers consider remote voting proposals and plans to reopen the House.The turnabout on Wednesday, a day after the vote was announced, underscores how bitterly partisan the debate over remote voting has become as Republican lawmakers increasingly push to have Congress return to its usual routine in Washington.
 The fight mirrors those raging across the nation as governors struggle to balance the economic pain and disruption of shuttering their states with public health guidelines to deal with the coronavirus pandemic, and as small but angry protests reflect a fierce strain of conservative disaffection with the restrictions.President Trump has stoked that anger, tweeting his support for protests of state-issued stay-at-home orders.In a letter on Tuesday, Mr. McCarthy called on Ms. Pelosi to work with him to create “a clear, safe and effective plan for reopening Congress,” and argued that lawmakers’ jobs were “essential work” that should continue during the pandemic.“I think we can agree that our institution’s current posture cannot and should not become the norm,” he wrote.Ms.
 Pelosi announced the decision to delay the move to remote voting after speaking with Mr. McCarthy for just over an hour, according to a leadership aide who said Ms. Pelosi had reversed course to ensure that such a monumental change to the rules would be bipartisan.
 Mr. McCarthy and Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the majority leader, will sit on the bipartisan task force, along with the top lawmakers on the Rules and Administration Committees, to study voting options and a reopening plan.“The part I did not want to see is it change more than 200 years of history just by one party,” Mr. McCarthy said Wednesday at a news conference outside the Capitol.
 “We’ve been through war and others, and this body has still been able to meet.
 Whatever we do, when it comes to voting and others, should be bipartisan.”Mr.
 McCarthy raised concerns about allowing one lawmaker to vote on behalf of an absent colleague, saying it distorted congressional representation, and that voters “don’t lend their voice to another member of Congress.”“Would you want one member of Congress to have 30 votes or more,” he asked.
 “That’s why it needs to be thought out — what is the best way to deal with this?”The proposal put forward by Democrats would have required lawmakers to sign a letter to the House clerk designating a lawmaker to vote on their behalf and how they would vote, a designation that would be publicly available.ImageMr.
 McCarthy suggested that proxy voting could be subject to “potential abuses of power.”Credit...Anna Moneymaker/The New York TimesSome Republicans have chafed in recent days at the notion that remote voting was needed at all, arguing that lawmakers should return to Washington to conduct business as usual.
 Several were agitating to stage a protest of sorts on the House floor this week, to demand answers from Democrats about when Congress would resume normal operations.“If we can have our ambulances, our health care workers and folks in grocery stores — and all of those brave Americans out there taking those risks — I’m ready to take those risks, too,” said Representative Michael Waltz, Republican of Florida.
 “I can’t overstate how desperate things are becoming.
 We have to get to work.”Republican leaders echoed the sentiment, implicitly criticizing Democrats in a sign that the debate over reopening Congress was likely to devolve into a highly politicized brawl in the weeks to come.“Every day the president goes to work in the White House,” said Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the minority whip, ticking off a list of administration officials who also show up.
 “Yet you see the House of Representatives — the people’s House — shut down.”Democratic leaders, after initially expressing reluctance to upend House rules to accommodate remote legislating, had framed the proxy voting arrangement as a common-sense solution that would allow lawmakers to do their jobs while following public health guidance.As the pandemic has taken hold, Congress has shifted into a nebulous state — not quite shuttered but not quite in regular session either — with both chambers taking extended recesses and returning only to pass legislation on a consensus basis, hoping that, given the extraordinary circumstances, nobody would object.
 That precarious arrangement is increasingly untenable as mounting partisan divisions over how to respond to the crisis make broad legislative agreements less and less likely.At the same time, many states have put in place strict social distancing restrictions, and public health experts are still advising people to avoid unnecessary travel and congregating in large groups, making the idea of a return to Washington by 429 House members problematic.“This virus has forced us to do things in different ways and become radically different in many respects for the safety and security of the health of all of our country,” Mr. Hoyer told reporters on Tuesday.
 “Therefore, we have to look at ways that perhaps we can still accomplish our business, but do it in a way that is safe and secure for our members.”But he also said any decision to adopt a remote voting policy should be bipartisan, and made in consultation with Republican leadership, a position he said he had shared with the Rules Committee.“We don’t want that to be perceived as trying to get some partisan gain by providing for that alternative,” Mr. Hoyer said, adding that he had been in touch with Mr. McCarthy.Efforts to adopt similar remote voting procedures in the Senate are unlikely to be successful.
 Instead, she said she and Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican leader, would have a bipartisan group of lawmakers consider remote voting proposals and plans to reopen the House.
 The fight mirrors those raging across the nation as governors struggle to balance the economic pain and disruption of shuttering their states with public health guidelines to deal with the coronavirus pandemic, and as small but angry protests reflect a fierce strain of conservative disaffection with the restrictions.
 Pelosi announced the decision to delay the move to remote voting after speaking with Mr. McCarthy for just over an hour, according to a leadership aide who said Ms. Pelosi had reversed course to ensure that such a monumental change to the rules would be bipartisan.
 Mr. McCarthy and Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the majority leader, will sit on the bipartisan task force, along with the top lawmakers on the Rules and Administration Committees, to study voting options and a reopening plan.
 “We’ve been through war and others, and this body has still been able to meet.
 Several were agitating to stage a protest of sorts on the House floor this week, to demand answers from Democrats about when Congress would resume normal operations.
 “I can’t overstate how desperate things are becoming.
 That precarious arrangement is increasingly untenable as mounting partisan divisions over how to respond to the crisis make broad legislative agreements less and less likely.
 McCarthy.
 An attempt by Senator Rand Paul to change the rules to allow it was stymied on Tuesday by his fellow Kentucky Republican, Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader.
