Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                 CDC Newsroom            Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                          Suicide rates rising across the U.S.Comprehensive prevention goes beyond a focus on mental health concerns Spanish (Español)     Minus     Related Pages        Press Release Embargoed Until: Thursday, June 7, 2018, 1:00 p.m.
 ET Contact: Media Relations (404) 639-3286   Suicide rates rose across the US from 1999 to 2016.
 View large image and text description  Suicide rates have been rising in nearly every state, according to the latest Vital Signs report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
 In 2016, nearly 45,000 Americans age 10 or older died by suicide.
 Suicide is the 10th leading cause of death and is one of just three leading causes that are on the rise.
 Suicide is rarely caused by a single factor.
 Although suicide prevention efforts largely focus on identifying and providing treatment for people with mental health conditions, there are many additional opportunities for prevention.
 “Suicide is a leading cause of death for Americans – and it’s a tragedy for families and communities across the country,” said CDC Principal Deputy Director Anne Schuchat, M.D.
 “From individuals and communities to employers and healthcare professionals, everyone can play a role in efforts to help save lives and reverse this troubling rise in suicide.” Many factors contribute to suicide For this Vital Signs report, CDC researchers examined state-level trends in suicide rates from 1999-2016.
 In addition, they used 2015 data from CDC’s National Violent Death Reporting System, which covered 27 states, to look at the circumstances of suicide among people with and without known mental health conditions.
 Researchers found that more than half of people who died by suicide did not have a known diagnosed mental health condition at the time of death.
 Relationship problems or loss, substance misuse; physical health problems; and job, money, legal or housing stress often contributed to risk for suicide.
 Firearms were the most common method of suicide used by those with and without a known diagnosed mental health condition.
 Across the study period, rates increased in nearly all states.
 Percentage increases in suicide rates ranged from just under 6 percent in Delaware to over 57 percent in North Dakota.
 Twenty-five states had suicide rate increases of more than 30 percent.
 Wide range of prevention activities needed  The report recommends that states take a comprehensive public health approach to suicide prevention and address the range of factors contributing to suicide.
 This requires coordination and cooperation from every sector of society: government, public health, healthcare, employers, education, media and community organizations.
 To help states with this important work, in 2017 CDC released a technical packagepdf icon on suicide prevention that describes strategies and approaches based on the best available evidence.
 This can help inform states and communities as they make decisions about prevention activities and priorities.
 Everyone can help prevent suicide:  Learn the warning signs of suicide to identify and appropriately respond to people at risk.
 Find out how this can save a life by visiting: www.BeThe1to.comexternal icon Reduce access to lethal means – such as medications and firearms – among people at risk of suicide.
 Contact the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline for help: 1-800-273-TALK (8255).
 https://suicidepreventionlifeline.orgexternal icon  The media can avoid increasing risk when reporting on suicide by:  Following and sharing recommendations available at reportingonsuicide.orgexternal icon (for example, avoiding dramatic headlines or explicit details on suicide methods); Providing information on suicide warning signs and suicide prevention resources; and Sharing stories of hope and healing.
 Vital Signs is a CDC report that typically appears on the first Tuesday of the month as part of the CDC journal Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.
 The report provides the latest data and information on key health indicators, and what can be done to drive down these health threats.
 ### U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICESexternal icon          
 						Page last reviewed: June 7, 2018 Content source: 	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention          home Newsroom Home    Press Materialsplus icon   CDC Newsroom Releasesplus icon  2020 News Releases 2019 News Releases 2018 News Releases Historical News Releases   Digital Press Kit    Journal Summariesplus icon  MMWR Summaries EID Summaries PCD Summaries    Digital Mediaplus icon  CDC B-Roll Image Library CDC Press Briefing    CDC Spokespersonplus icon  Michael J.
 Beach, PhD Michael Bell, MD John T. Brooks, MD Inger K. Damon, MD, PhD Debra E. Houry, MD, MPH Daniel B. Jernigan, MD, MPH (CAPT, USPHS) Jennifer McQuiston, DVM, MS (CAPT, USPHS) Eric Pevzner, PhD, MPH (CAPT, USPHS) Stephen Redd, MD (RADM, USPHS) Arjun Srinivasan, MD (CAPT, USPHS)    Contact Media Relationsplus icon  Frequently Asked Questions       Get Email Updates  To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:     Email Address       What's this?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
