On November 3, 2020, just after 9:00 a.m., officers from Operations Division West were dispatched to a Circle K located at 3970 N. Flowing Wells Road for the report of a male with a weapon.
 As officers were responding to the area, additional 911 calls were received reporting that the male was waving a machete around in a threatening manner.
 As officers arrived, they located the male suspect with the machete.
 Officers attempted to contact the suspect; however, he ran from them while holding the machete.
 Officers followed the suspect into a residential alleyway where he was given numerous commands to drop the weapon.
 While in the alleyway, an officer discharged a flex baton twice and struck the suspect.
 The two strikes had no effect.
 A flex baton is a non-deadly device that propels a beanbag.
 The suspect then exited the alley north of W. King Place and ran south on N. Flowing Wells Road.
 While still in possession of the machete, the suspect approached a pedestrian standing on the corner and a vehicle with two occupants that was stopped at W. King Place.
 At this time an officer discharged his firearm, striking the suspect.
 Officers immediately rendered aid to the suspect, utilizing Individual First Aid Kits (IFAK) until Tucson Fire arrived.
 The suspect was then transported to Banner University Medical Center, where he is currently being treated for his injuries.
 Thankfully, no other community members or officers were injured during the incident.
 Detectives with the Tucson Police Violent Crimes Unit and sergeants with the department’s Office of Professional Standards are investigating the incident.
 The Violent Crimes Unit is conducting the criminal portion of the investigation, while the Office of Professional Standards conducts a separate, but parallel, administrative investigation to examine the actions of department personnel.
 This is standard protocol in all officer-involved shootings.
 The officer who discharged his weapon is Officer Benjamin Boschee, an 18-year-veteran of the Tucson Police Department.
 The suspect has been identified as 27-year-old George Herrera.
 Once released from the hospital, he will be booked into Pima County Jail on one felony charge of reckless display of a weapon.
 Additional details will be released as they become available.
 See moreTucson Police Department5 November at 07:54***FRAUD ALERT: SOCIAL SECURITY SCAM***  Have you received a call or... voicemail from someone claiming there is an issue with your social security number?
 If so, you are not alone.
 The Tucson Police Department has seen an increase in the number of reports from community members advising they were contacted by someone saying their social security number had been compromised (seized, suspended or blocked).
 Often times they were told their number was used or located during some type of crime (typically in another state, such as Texas).
 The scammer then advised the community member the situation could be resolved by paying a fine or fee.
 The scammer may have also try to extract personal identifying information.
 These scammers will try to sound official by providing you an agency name, badge number and your CallerID may even show a legitimate government phone number.
 Please remember, government agencies WILL NEVER call to demand money.
 They will not threaten an arrest or lawsuit for lack of payment or providing information.
 These are red flags and you should HANG UP.
 Also remember, do not rely on Caller ID as it is EASILY SPOOFED.
 If you have any doubt or questions, please call Social Security directly at, at 1-800-772-1213 or go to the agency’s local office.
 If you believe you are a victim of this scam, please contact the Office of the Inspector General at 1-800-269-0271 or make a report online at https://oig.ssa.gov/report.
 If you've lost money or believe that a specific scam originated in the city limits of Tucson, you can make a report with the Tucson Police Department.
 This report can be made online at https://www.tucsonaz.gov/…/crime-report… or by calling our non-emergency number, 520-791-4444.
 For more information on this and other types of scams, please visit the Federal Trade Commission website (www.ftc.gov).
 Additional tip: If someone calls you and requests payment in the form of cash, money order, gift card, cryptocurrency or other untraceable means, STOP, and hang up.
 This is most certainly a scam.
 An easy way to remember is that gift cards are for gifts.
 If someone is asking you to obtain a gift card as a payment, this is a scam.
 If you are unsure, you can also contact your local police department's non-emergency line.
 Share this information with any elderly friends or relatives, as they are often the targets of these types of scams.
 You can review your cookie controls at any time.
 You have a number of choices using the tools described below.
 Some cookies are required in order to use Facebook.
 One of the ways Audience Network shows relevant ads is by using your ad preferences to determine which ads you may be interested in seeing.
 This helps us do things such as give you a more personalised experience on Facebook.
 As of 5 October 2020, you may find additional information about the controls offered by popular browsers at the links below.
 Certain parts of Facebook Products may not work properly if you have disabled browser cookies.
 The most relevant comments will appear first.
 The most relevant comments will appear first.
 The most relevant comments will appear first.
 The most relevant comments will appear first.
