Skip to main content           The Guardian - Back to home          Support The Guardian   Available for everyone, funded by readers    Contribute        Subscribe        Subscribe            Search jobs            Sign in          My account      Account overview     Billing     Profile     Emails &amp; marketing     Settings     Help      Comments &amp; replies                  Sign out           Search            switch to the  UK edition     switch to the  US edition     switch to the  Australia edition     switch to the  International edition     current edition:  UK edition      News     Opinion     Sport     Culture     Lifestyle          Show More           News     UK news     World news     Business     Coronavirus     Football     Environment     UK politics     Education     Society     Science     Tech     Global development     Obituaries        Opinion     The Guardian view     Columnists     Cartoons     Opinion videos     Letters        Sport     Football     Cricket     Rugby union     Tennis     Cycling     F1     Golf     Boxing     Rugby league     Racing     US sports        Culture     Film     Music     TV &amp; radio     Books     Art &amp; design     Stage     Games     Classical        Lifestyle     Fashion     Food     Recipes     Travel     Health &amp; fitness     Women     Men     Love &amp; sex     Beauty     Home &amp; garden     Money     Cars               What term do you want to search?
 Search with google        Make a contribution     Subscribe        UK edition     switch to the  US edition     switch to the  Australia edition     switch to the  International edition         Search jobs     Hire with Guardian Jobs     Holidays     Live events     Masterclasses     Digital Archive     Guardian Print Shop     Patrons     Guardian Puzzles app     The Guardian app     Video     Podcasts     Pictures     Newsletters     Today's paper     Inside the Guardian     The Observer     Guardian Weekly     Professional networks     Crosswords          Facebook          Twitter       Search jobs     Hire with Guardian Jobs     Holidays     Live events     Masterclasses     Digital Archive     Guardian Print Shop     Patrons     Guardian Puzzles app                                   Datablog       US gun control         Gun homicides and gun ownership listed by country       Where are the world’s guns - and which countries have the highest rates of firearms murders?
 Handguns for sale in a shop, Idaho, USA.
 Photograph: Elaine Thompson/AP/AP     The Aurora shooting has re-lit the arguments over gun control inthe US.
 How does the US really compare on firearms?
 The world’s crime figures are collected by the UNODC through its annual crime survey.
 It has a special section of data on firearm homicides - and provides detailed information by size of population and compared to other crimes.
 It is not a perfect dataset - some key nations are missing from the data, including Russia, China and Afghanistan.
 But it does include the US, UK and many other developed nations.
 The Small Arms Survey is also useful - although it is from 2007, it collates civilian gun ownership rates for 178 countries around the world, and has ‘normalised’ the data to include a rate per 100,000 population.
 It shows that:        With less than 5% of the world’s population, the United States is home to roughly 35–50 per cent of the world’s civilian-owned guns, heavily skewing the global geography of firearms and any relative comparison   So, given those caveats, we can see which countries have the highest ownership rates for firearms - and which have the highest gun murder rates.
 The key facts are: • The US has the highest gun ownership rate in the world - an average of 88 per 100 people.
 That puts it first in the world for gun ownership - and even the number two country, Yemen, has significantly fewer - 54.8 per 100 people• But the US does not have the worst firearm murder rate - that prize belongs to Honduras, El Salvador and Jamaica.
 In fact, the US is number 28, with a rate of 2.97 per 100,000 people• Puerto Rico tops the world’s table for firearms murders as a percentage of all homicides - 94.8%.
 It’s followed by Sierra Leone in Africa and Saint Kitts and Nevis in the Caribbean The full data is below - what can you do with it?
 All rights reserved.
