Your source for the latest research news      Follow Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Subscribe RSS Feeds Newsletters    New:   Early Big-Game Hunters Were Likely Female Positive Outlook Predicts Less Memory Decline Touch and Taste?
 It's All in the Tentacles Where Were Jupiter and Saturn Born?
 Science News from research organizations     1 2  Study Shows That Genetic Quality Of Sperm Deteriorates As Men Age  Date: June 6, 2006 Source: Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Summary: New research indicates that the genetic quality of sperm worsens as men get older, increasing a man's risk of being infertile, fathering unsuccessful pregnancies and passing along dwarfism and possibly other genetic diseases to his children.
 Share:               FULL STORY      New research indicates that the genetic quality of sperm worsens as men get older, increasing a man's risk of being infertile, fathering unsuccessful pregnancies and passing along dwarfism and possibly other genetic diseases to his children.
 The first changes were observed in men in their early reproductive years.
 Earlier research by the same team indicated that male reproductive ability gradually worsens with age, as sperm counts decline and the sperm lose motility and their ability to swim in a straight line.
 In the current study, the researchers analyzed DNA damage, chromosomal abnormalities and gene mutations in semen samples from the same subjects -- 97 healthy, non-smoking LLNL employees and retirees between 22 and 80 years old -- and found that sperm motility showed a high correlation with DNA fragmentation, which is associated with increased risk of infertility and a reduced probability of fathering a successful pregnancy.
 The study, "Advancing age has differential effects on DNA damage, chromatin integrity, gene mutations, and aneuploidies (chromosome abnormalities) in sperm," appears this week in the online edition of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
 "This study shows that men who wait until they're older to have children are not only risking difficulties conceiving, they could also be increasing the risk of having children with genetic problems," said co-lead author Andrew Wyrobek of LLNL.
 "We know that women have a biological time clock," said co-lead author Brenda Eskenazi of UC Berkeley's School of Public Health, "with an increase in risk of miscarriage and producing children with trisomy (an extra chromosome, such as in Downs syndrome) as women age, and with a seemingly abrupt end of fertility around perimenopause.
 Our research suggests that men, too, have a biological time clock -- only it is different.
 Men seem to have a gradual rather than an abrupt change in fertility and in the potential ability to produce viable healthy offspring."
 They did conclude, however, that some older men could be at risk for fathering children with dwarfism, and that "a small fraction of men are at increased risks for transmitting multiple genetic and chromosomal defects."
 Apert syndrome gene mutations increased in the sperm of a second group of men recruited in the Baltimore inner city by researchers at Johns Hopkins Medical Center, while no age effects were observed in the group of men recruited in California.
 Wyrobek noted that these differences in finding suggest that factors other than age may be involved, raising the possibility that socioeconomic or dietary factors or ethnic background may also be involved in how age affects the quality of human sperm.
 "Since some forms of genomic damage change with age and others don't," he said, "overall genomic sperm quality cannot be measured by any single sperm test."
 Dwarfism, a genetic disorder that affects bone growth, is the most common growth-related birth defect, occurring in about one in every 25,000 births.
 It occurs in all races and in both males and females and causes affected individuals to have very short arms and legs, limiting their full adult height to about four feet.
 A flow cytometer method was used to detect DNA fragmentation and chromatin defects in collaboration with co-author Don Evenson at South Dakota State University.
 Gene mutations in the achrondroplasia gene and in the Apert sydrome gene were measured using highly sensitive PCR--based methods developed by co-authors Ethylin Jabs at Johns Hopkins and Norman Arnheim at USC in Los Angeles.
 The team also used a Livermore-developed chromosome analysis system called sperm FISH (fluorescence in-situ hybridization).
 They found a strong correlation between age and sperm DNA fragmentation, with genetic mutations associated with dwarfism gradually increasing by about two per cent for every year of age.
 The study included at least 15 men from each age decade from 20 to 60 years, and 25 men 60 to 80 years old.
 The researchers gathered extensive medical, lifestyle and occupational exposure history from the men and excluded current cigarette smokers and men with current fertility or reproductive problems, a previous semen analysis with zero sperm count, vasectomy, history of prostate cancer or undescended testicle, or exposure to chemotherapy or radiation treatment for cancer.
 Understanding the effects of paternal age has become more important as increasing numbers of men are having children at older ages.
 Since 1980 there has been about a 40 percent increase in 35- to 49-year-old men fathering children, and a 20 percent decrease in fathers under 30.
 Studies have also shown that it takes longer for older men to conceive, even when the age of the mother is considered.
 The study was primarily funded by several grants from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, part of the National Institutes of Health, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
 Founded in 1952, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory has a mission to ensure national security and to apply science and technology to the important issues of our time.
 Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory is managed by the University of California for the U.S. Department of Energy's National Nuclear Security Administration.
 make a difference: sponsored opportunity           Story Source: Materials provided by Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
 Note: Content may be edited for style and length.
 Cite This Page:   MLA APA Chicago   Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
 "Study Shows That Genetic Quality Of Sperm Deteriorates As Men Age."
 ScienceDaily.
 ScienceDaily, 6 June 2006. .
 Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
 (2006, June 6).
 Study Shows That Genetic Quality Of Sperm Deteriorates As Men Age.
 ScienceDaily.
 Retrieved November 6, 2020 from www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2006/06/060606091933.htm Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
 "Study Shows That Genetic Quality Of Sperm Deteriorates As Men Age."
 ScienceDaily.
 www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2006/06/060606091933.htm (accessed November 6, 2020).
 The scientists also ... Genetic Risk Is Associated With Differences in Gut Microbiome  Aug. 19, 2019 — Children with a high genetic risk of developing type 1 diabetes have different gut microbiomes than children with a low risk, according to a new study.
 The results suggest that genetic risk can shape ...
 Exposure to Cannabis Alters the Genetic Profile of Sperm  Dec. 19, 2018 — New research suggests men in their child-bearing years should consider how THC could impact their sperm and possibly the children they conceive during periods when they've been using the drug.
 Much ...
 Male Infertility Research Reveals How a New Life Begins  Mar.
 Or view hourly updated newsfeeds in your RSS reader:    Email Newsletters    RSS Feeds     Follow Us  Keep up to date with the latest news from ScienceDaily via social networks:    Facebook    Twitter    LinkedIn     Have Feedback?
 Tell us what you think of ScienceDaily -- we welcome both positive and negative comments.
 Have any problems using the site?
 Questions?
 Leave Feedback    Contact Us        About This Site  |  Staff  |  Reviews  |  Contribute  |  Advertise  |  Privacy Policy  |  Editorial Policy  |  Terms of Use   Copyright 2020 ScienceDaily or by other parties, where indicated.
 All rights controlled by their respective owners.
 Content on this website is for information only.
 It is not intended to provide medical or other professional advice.
 Views expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of ScienceDaily, its staff, its contributors, or its partners.
 Financial support for ScienceDaily comes from advertisements and referral programs, where indicated.
 — CCPA: Do Not Sell My Information — — GDPR: Privacy Settings —
