Skip to main content            COVID-19 is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation.
 Get the latest information from CDC (coronavirus.gov) | NIH Resources | NIDA Resources    National Institutes of Health   Order Publications En español                        Search Component              Home     Drug Topics    Drug Topics    Alcohol     Club Drugs     Cocaine     Fentanyl     Hallucinogens     Heroin     Inhalants     Kratom     Marijuana     MDMA (Ecstasy/Molly)     Methamphetamine     Opioids     Over-the-Counter Medicines     Prescription Medicines     Steroids (Anabolic)     Synthetic Cannabinoids (K2/Spice)     Synthetic Cathinones (Bath Salts)     Tobacco/Nicotine and Vaping      More Drug Topics      Quick Links COVID-19 Opioid Crisis Commonly Used Drugs Chart Emerging Trends Fentanyl NIDA Publications        Research &amp; Training    Research &amp; Training    NIDA Research Programs &amp; Activities     Clinical Research     NIH Policies &amp; Guidance     Research Data, Measures, &amp; Resources     Research Training &amp; Career Development     Resources for Grants &amp; Contracts         Quick Links HEAL Initiative NIDA Drug Supply Program Clinical Trials Stewardship Fellowships &amp; Grants NIDA Notice of Special Interest (NOSI)        Clinical Resources    NIDAMED: Clinical Resources    For Your Discipline     Health Professions Education     Marijuana and Other Drugs     Opioid Crisis and Pain Management     Screening Tools &amp; Prevention     Treatment         Quick Links COVID-19 Resources        Grants &amp; Funding    Grants &amp; Funding    Contracts and Small Businesses     NIDA Funding Opportunities     Trans-NIH Funding Opportunities         Quick Links Grants Address OUD in Criminal Justice Settings Peer Review Grant Application Forms Grants &amp; Contract Application Process NIDA Notice of Special Interest (NOSI)        News &amp; Events    News    News Releases     Nora's Blog     NIDA Notes     Research Highlights     Public Education Projects     NIDA in the News     Subject Area Experts         Quick Links NIDA TV NIDA Media Guide Contact the Press Office Meetings &amp; Events        About NIDA    About NIDA    Advisory Boards and Review Groups     Director's Page     Legislative Activities     Organization     Working at NIDA         Quick Links NIDA Strategic Plan FY 2021 Budget Information Clinical Trials Network Contact Us             Breadcrumb   Home   Marijuana Research Report        Can marijuana use during and after pregnancy harm the baby?
 Marijuana Research Report    Letter From the Director   What is marijuana?
 What is the scope of marijuana use in the United States?
 What are marijuana's effects?
 How does marijuana produce its effects?
 Does marijuana use affect driving?
 Is marijuana addictive?
 What are marijuana's long-term effects on the brain?
 Is marijuana a gateway drug?
 How does marijuana use affect school, work, and social life?
 Is there a link between marijuana use and psychiatric disorders?
 What are marijuana's effects on lung health?
 What are marijuana’s effects on other aspects of physical health?
 Is marijuana safe and effective as medicine?
 What are the effects of secondhand exposure to marijuana smoke?
 Can marijuana use during and after pregnancy harm the baby?
 Available Treatments for Marijuana Use Disorders   Where can I get further information about marijuana?
 References             Research Report   Marijuana Research Report Can marijuana use during and after pregnancy harm the baby?
 Image     Photo by ©Thinkstock.com/Creatas Images    More research is needed on how marijuana use during pregnancy could impact the health and development of infants, given changing policies about access to marijuana, as well as significant increases over the last decade in the number of pregnant women seeking substance use disorder treatment for marijuana use.83 One study found that about 20% of pregnant women 24-years-old and younger screened positive for marijuana.
 However, this study also found that women were about twice as likely to screen positive for marijuana use via a drug test than they state in self-reported measures.
 This suggests that self-reported rates of marijuana use in pregnant females may not be an accurate measure of marijuana use.84 Additionally, in one study of dispensaries, nonmedical personnel at marijuana dispensaries were recommending marijuana to pregnant women for nausea, but medical experts warn against it.
 There is no human research connecting marijuana use to the chance of miscarriage,85,86 although animal studies indicate that the risk for miscarriage increases if marijuana is used early in pregnancy.87 Some associations have been found between marijuana use during pregnancy and future developmental and hyperactivity disorders in children.88–91 Evidence is mixed as to whether marijuana use by pregnant women is associated with low birth weight92–96 or premature birth,95 although long-term use may elevate these risks.94 Research has shown that pregnant women who use marijuana have a 2.3 times greater risk of stillbirth.97 Given the potential of marijuana to negatively impact the developing brain, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists recommends that obstetrician-gynecologists counsel women against using marijuana while trying to get pregnant, during pregnancy, and while they are breastfeeding.98 It is important to note that despite the growing popularity of using marijuana in vaping devices, the Food and Drug Administration recommends that pregnant women should not use any vaping product, regardless of the substance.
 Image     Source: Martin et al., 2015    Recent Trends in Treatment Admissions for Marijuana Use During PregnancySome women report using marijuana to treat severe nausea associated with their pregnancy;99,100 however, there is no research confirming that this is a safe practice, and it is generally not recommended.
 Women considering using medical marijuana while pregnant should not do so without checking with their health care providers.
 Animal studies have shown that moderate concentrations of THC, when administered to mothers while pregnant or nursing, could have long-lasting effects on the child, including increasing stress responsivity and abnormal patterns of social interactions.101 Animal studies also show learning deficits in prenatally exposed individuals.33,102 Human research has shown that some babies born to women who used marijuana during their pregnancies display altered responses to visual stimuli, increased trembling, and a high-pitched cry,103 which could indicate problems with neurological development.104 In school, marijuana-exposed children are more likely to show gaps in problem-solving skills, memory,105 and the ability to remain attentive.106 More research is needed, however, to disentangle marijuana-specific effects from those of other environmental factors that could be associated with a mother's marijuana use, such as an impoverished home environment or the mother's use of other drugs.96 Prenatal marijuana exposure is also associated with an increased likelihood of a person using marijuana as a young adult, even when other factors that influence drug use are considered.107 More information on marijuana use during pregnancy can be found in the NIDA's Substance Use in Women Research Report.
 Very little is known about marijuana use and breastfeeding.
 One study suggests that moderate amounts of THC find their way into breast milk when a nursing mother uses marijuana.108 Some evidence shows that exposure to THC through breast milk in the first month of life could result in decreased motor development at 1 year of age.109 There have been no studies to determine if exposure to THC during nursing is linked to effects later in the child's life.
 With regular use, THC can accumulate in human breast milk to high concentrations.92 Because a baby's brain is still forming, THC consumed in breast milk could affect brain development.
 Given all these uncertainties, nursing mothers are discouraged from using marijuana.98,110 New mothers using medical marijuana should be vigilant about coordinating care between the doctor recommending their marijuana use and the pediatrician caring for their baby.
 Prev   Next         July 2020                Cite this article    APA Style MLA Style AMA Style      NIDA.
 2020, June 8.
 Can marijuana use during and after pregnancy harm the baby?.
 Retrieved from https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/marijuana/can-marijuana-use-during-pregnancy-harm-baby        NIDA.
 "Can marijuana use during and after pregnancy harm the baby?."
 National Institute on Drug Abuse, 8 Jun.
 2020, https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/marijuana/can-marijuana-use-during-pregnancy-harm-baby        NIDA.
 Can marijuana use during and after pregnancy harm the baby?.
 National Institute on Drug Abuse website.
 https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/marijuana/can-marijuana-use-during-pregnancy-harm-baby.
 This external link provides additional information that is consistent with the intended purpose of federal site.
 The National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) or the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal site.
 Linking to a non-federal site does not constitute an endorsement by NIDA, HHS, or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the site.
 You will be subject to the destination site\u2019s privacy policy when you follow the link.
