In October 2018, Be the Match, the national bone marrow donor program, contacted Dr. Nelson with news that his blood might be a match for a young boy in France.
 A few months later, Nelson donated his bone marrow and helped to try to save the life of a 14-year-old across the world.
 In 1996, in conjunction with a blood drive Nelson’s college fraternity was hosting, he donated blood, not thinking it would be needed 22 years later.
 However, last fall Be the Match asked if they could test Nelson’s blood to ensure it was the right match they hoped it would be.
 It was a match.
 And so the process began.
 Originally, Nelson was going to donate his stem cells through bone marrow, as this course allows more stem cells to be extracted.
 As a result from his military days, Nelson acquired sleep apnea: a sleep disorder that occurs when a person’s breathing stops repeatedly during sleep.
 Because of this, putting Nelson under general anesthesia would be extremely dangerous, so doctors turned to another form of transplant: intravenous therapy.
 Nelson would have two IVs, one in each arm.
 He explained that, “[The doctors] take the blood out of one arm, send that blood to the centrifuge where they separate the plasma from the stem cell, then put the blood back in my arm through the other IV.” However, on Jan. 21, at his final physical exam, before the planned stem cell extraction, Nelson was asked if he had sickle cell anemia, a blood disorder.
 “I said well I don’t have sickle cell, but I have the sickle cell trait,” Nelson explained.
 “[The doctors] said, ‘Well if you have the trait, you can’t do stem cell.’” The doctors went back to the drawing board, and within a day, a new plan was set.
 This past Monday, Nelson was put under a local anesthetic to keep a steady watch on his breathing, while doctors extracted bone marrow and sent it to France.
 Despite the setbacks and pain of the procedure, Nelson said, “If it’s just a little bit of pain for a little bit of time that can give someone years of joy, it’s all worth it.” 6 Comments   6 Responses to “Dr.
 Nelson donates stem cells to save a life”    			Marion Evans on  			 			April 9th, 2019 6:34 pm    			 I am so very sorry to hear of the death of Principal Nelson.
 I donated bone marrow by extraction in 1994.
 By doing so I was able to save a life.
 I had some back stiffness and pain but I recovered.
 I understand his motivation, how can you say no when you are a match for someone who will die without your help.
 He was a special person and I want to express my sincere sympathy to his family and all of those who knew him.
 Sharonde on  			 			April 10th, 2019 2:03 pm    			 My father god bless his soul he did a beautiful selfless thing god got you.My sister.
 give me a kidney 12years a go .I love her so much .god blessed her to help me.God has his family god will take care of them God Blessed      			Joe Grzesiak on  			 			April 10th, 2019 4:57 pm    			 I was a PBSC donor in 2011 and had the same thought – if I’m the best match of anyone in the world to try to save someone’s life, how could I say no?
 His spirit was so generous and I’m very sorry to hear of his passing.
 Wiley Zagajeski on  			 			April 10th, 2019 11:34 pm    			 This story just devastated me, what a wonderful selfless deed that ended tragically.
 Principle Nelson is a true American Hero.
 My God bless him and his family.
 Mr. Nelson, Rest In Peace.
 Dr. Ethel Hasty on  			 			April 11th, 2019 7:24 am    			 My sincere condolences to Dr. Nelson’s family.
 It is rare to find such a selfless individual who would risk his life for that of another individual.
 What a rare, altruistic, caring, wonderful man.
 May God bless his family.
 In your loss I hope you will hold on to the memories of Dr .
 Nelson and the example he set for all of us.
 Dr. Ethel Hasty Former Westfield High School English Teacher Retired Superintendent (Irvington NJ)      			Erin on  			 			April 11th, 2019 12:52 pm    			 My prayers are with the family.
 May you rely on our heavenly father for support during this hard time.
 God knows his plan for Dr Nelson       If you want a picture to show with your comment, go get a gravatar.
 Name (required)  Email Address (required)   Spam Control Field.
 Please Ignore
