Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                 E. coli (Escherichia coli)            Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                         Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp Chopped Salad KitsFinal UpdateEspañol (Spanish)     Minus     Related Pages       Posted on January 15, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET  This outbreak appears to be over.
 E. coli is an important cause of illness in the United States.
 Find more information about steps you can take to reduce your risk of infection on the E. coli and Food Safety web page.
 CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states and Canada, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections linked to Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp chopped salad kits.
 Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers   At A Glance   Reported Cases: 10 States: 5 Hospitalizations: 4 Deaths: 0 Recall: No      resize iconView Larger     Close download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]     Contaminated Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp chopped salad kits that made people sick in this outbreak are past their shelf-life and should no longer be available.
 The affected salads had best-before dates up to and including December 7, 2019.
 Take action if you have symptoms of an E. coli infection:  Talk to your healthcare provider.
 Write down what you ate in the week before you started to get sick.
 Report your illness to the health department.
 Assist public health investigators by answering questions about your illness.
 Wash your hands thoroughly after changing diapers, using the toilet, and before and after preparing food to lower the chance of infecting others.
 Follow these steps to help keep you healthy and your fruits and vegetables safer to eat:  Wash your hands before and after preparing fruits and vegetables.
 Wash or scrub all fruits and vegetables under running water before eating, cutting, or cooking.
 Fruits and vegetables labeled “prewashed” do not need to be washed again at home.
 Use separate cutting boards for fruits and vegetables and for raw meats, poultry, seafood, or eggs.
 Use separate plates and utensils for cooked and raw foods.
 Store fruits and vegetables away from, and not next to or below, raw meat, poultry, or seafood.
 These items can drip juices that may have germs.
 Final Outbreak Information   This outbreak appears to be over as of January 15, 2020.
 Ten people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from five states.
 Four people were hospitalized.
 One person developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure.
 No deaths were reported.
 The Public Health Agency of Canadaexternal icon identified ill people infected with the same DNA fingerprint of E. coli O157:H7 bacteria in Canada.
 Information collected during the investigation indicated that Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp chopped salad kits were the likely source of this outbreak.
 This outbreak was caused by a different strain of E. coli O157:H7 than the outbreak linked to romaine lettuce from the Salinas Valley growing region in California.
 Symptoms of E. coli Infection   People usually get sick from Shiga toxin-producing E. coli (STEC) 2 to 8 days (average of 3 to 4 days) after swallowing the germ.
 Some people with E. coli infections may get a type of kidney failure called hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS).
 E. coli infection is usually diagnosed by testing a stool sample.
 Antibiotics are not recommended for patients with suspected E. coli infections until diagnostic testing can be performed and E. coli infection is ruled out.
 Some studies have shown that administering antibiotics to patients with E. coli infections might increase their risk of developing HUS, and a benefit of treatment with antibiotics has not been clearly demonstrated.
 For more information, see Symptoms of E. coli Infection.
 Investigation DetailsJanuary 15, 2020 CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli O157:H7 infections.
 This investigation included illnesses in Canada reported by the Public Health Agency of Canadaexternal icon.
 This outbreak was caused by a different strain of E. coli O157:H7 than the outbreak linked to romaine lettuce from the Salinas, California, growing region.
 Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak.
 PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC.
 DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS).
 CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks.
 WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness.
 In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people in the United States and Canada were closely related genetically.
 This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection.
 A total of 10 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from five states.
 A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page.
 Illnesses started on dates ranging from November 5, 2019, to November 16, 2019.
 Ill people ranged in age from 21 to 91, with a median age of 33.
 Among ill people, 60% were female.
 Four of ten ill people were hospitalized, including one person who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure.
 No deaths were reported.
 WGS analysis of isolates from 10 ill people identified antibiotic resistance to chloramphenicol, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.
 Standard antibiotic resistance testing of clinical isolates by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway.
 These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157 infections.
 Investigation of the Outbreak Information collected during the investigation indicated that Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp chopped salad kits were the likely source of this outbreak.
 State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to determine what they ate and other exposures in the week before their illness started.
 Of 10 ill people with information available, all 10 (100%) reported eating any leafy greens in the week before their illness started.
 Eight ill people specifically reported eating or maybe eating a Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp chopped salad kit.
 Romaine lettuce was one of the ingredients in the salad kit, but the investigation was not able to determine if romaine lettuce was the contaminated ingredient in the salad kit.
 For more information about the traceback investigation, visit the FDA websiteexternal icon.
 As of January 15, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over.
 Previous Updates &gt;&gt; Outbreak By the Numbersmap iconMap of Reported Caseschart iconTimeline of Reported CasesKey Resources FDA Outbreak Investigation of E. coli: Salad Mix (2019)external icon Canadian Public Health Notice: Outbreak of E. coli infections linked to Fresh Express brand Sunflower Crisp Chopped Salad Kitsexternal icon E. coli and Food Safety How to Report a Foodborne Illness Fruit and Vegetable Safety            
 						Page last reviewed: January 15, 2020 Content source: 	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)         homeE.coli Homepage  Questions &amp; Answersplus icon  Enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC)   Symptoms Prevention Outbreaksplus icon  Timeline for Reporting Cases of E. coli O157 Infection 2020 Outbreaksplus icon  Outbreak of E. coli Infections – Unknown Source 1plus icon  Map of Reported Cases Timeline of Reported Cases   Outbreak of E. coli Infections – Unknown Source 2plus icon  Map of Reported Cases Timeline of Reported Cases   Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Clover Sproutsplus icon  Map of Reported Cases Timeline of Reported Cases Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates     2019 Outbreaksplus icon  Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to to Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp Chopped Salad Kitsplus icon  Map of Reported Cases Timeline of Reported Cases Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates Cifras del brote Cronología de casos reportados Brote de infecciones por E. coli vinculado a kits de ensalada cortada Sunflower Crisp de la marca Fresh Express   Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Romaine Lettuceplus icon  Map of Reported Cases Timeline of Reported Cases Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates Brote de infecciones por E. coli vinculado a la lechuga romana (romaine)   Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Northfork Ground Bisonplus icon  Map of Reported Cases Timeline of Reported Cases Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates   Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Flourplus icon  Map of Reported Cases Timeline of Reported Cases Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates Brote de infecciones por E. coli vinculado a la harina   Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon  Map of Reported Cases Timeline of Reported Cases Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates Brote de infecciones por E. coli Mapa de casos reportados Cronograma de los casos reportados Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigación del brote     2018 Outbreaksplus icon  Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Romaine Lettuceplus icon  E. coli O157:H7 Infections Linked to Romaine Lettuce en Español Map of Reported Cases Timeline of Reported Cases Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates Map of Reported Cases en Español Timeline of Reported Cases en Español Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates en Español   Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon  Map of Reported Cases Timeline of Reported Cases Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Ground Beef en Español Map of Reported Cases en Español Timeline of Reported Cases en Español   E. coli O157:H7 Infections Linked to Romaine Lettuceplus icon  E. coli O157:H7 Infections Linked to Romaine Lettuce en Español Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, Retailers, and Clinicians Case Count Maps Epi Curves Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources     2017 Outbreaksplus icon  O157:H7 Infections Linked to Leafy Greensplus icon  Case Count Map Epi Curve Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources   O157:H7 Infections Linked to I.M.
 Healthy Brand SoyNut Butterplus icon  Recall &amp; Advice to Consumers Case Count Maps Epi Curves Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources     2016 Outbreaksplus icon  O157:H7 Infections Linked to Beef Products Produced by Adams Farmplus icon  Recall &amp; Advice to Consumers Case Count Maps Epi Curves Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources   O121 &amp; O26 Infections Linked to Flourplus icon  Recall &amp; Advice to Consumers and Retailers Case Count Maps Epi Curves Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources   O157 Infections Linked to Jack &amp; The Green Sprouts Alfalfa Sproutsplus icon  Recall &amp; Advice to Consumers &amp; Retailers Case Count Maps Epi Curves Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources     2015 Outbreaksplus icon  O157:H7 Infections Linked to Costco Rotisserie Chicken Saladplus icon  Recall &amp; Advice to Consumers Case Count Maps Epi Curves Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources   O26 Infections Linked to Chipotle Mexican Grillplus icon  Advice to Food Industries &amp; Consumers Case Count Maps Epi Curves Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources     2014 Outbreaksplus icon  O121 Infections Linked to Raw Clover Sproutsplus icon  Advice to Consumers &amp; Retailers Case Count Maps Epi Curves Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources   O157:H7 Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon  Recall &amp; Advice to Consumers Case Count Maps Epi Curves Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources     2013 Outbreaksplus icon  O157:H7 Infections Linked to Ready-to-Eat Saladsplus icon  Recall &amp; Advice to Consumers Case Count Maps Epi Curves Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources   O121 Infections Linked to Farm Rich Brand Frozen Food Productsplus icon  Recall &amp; Advice to Consumers Case Count Maps Epi Curves Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources     2012 Outbreaksplus icon  O157:H7 Infections Linked to Organic Spinach and Spring Mix Blendplus icon  Recall &amp; Advice to Consumers Case Count Maps Epi Curves Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources   O145 Infections Linked to Unknown Sourceplus icon  Advice to Consumers Case Count Maps Epi Curves Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources   O26 Infections Linked to Raw Clover Sprouts at Jimmy John’s Restaurantsplus icon  Advice to Consumers Case Count Maps Epi Curves Signs &amp; Symptoms Key Resources     2011 Outbreaksplus icon  O157:H7 Infections Linked to Romaine Lettuce O104 (STEC O104:H4) Infections Linked to Travel to Germany O157:H7 Infections Linked to Lebanon Bologna O157:H7 Infections Linked to In-shell Hazelnuts   2010 Outbreaksplus icon  O157:H7 Infections Linked to Bravo Farms Cheeses O145 Infections Linked to Shredded Romaine Lettuce from a Single Processing Facility O157:H7 Infections Linked to Beef from National Steak and Poultry   2006-2009 Outbreaksplus icon  O157:H7 Infections Linked to Beef from Fairbank Farms O157:H7 Infections Linked to Beef from JBS Swift Beef Company O157:H7 Infections Linked to Prepackaged Cookie Dough O157:H7 Infections Linked to Beef from Kroger/Nebraska Ltd O157:H7 Infections Linked to Totino’s/Jeno’s Pizza O157 Infections Linked to Topp’s Ground Beef Patties O157:H7 Infections Linked to Taco Bell O157:H7 Infections Linked to Fresh Spinach     Publications Surveillanceplus icon  Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) Annual Report, 2016plus icon  Report Appendices Other Sources of Surveillance Data     Resources for Clinicians and Laboratoriesplus icon  Diarrheagenic E. coli         Related Links   Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks Estimates of Foodborne Illness Food Safety at CDC Foodborne disease Travelers’ Health: Safe Food &amp; Water Healthy Swimming E. coli Infection &amp; Farm Animals                HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
