Skip navigation     U.S. National Library of Medicine         Menu  Health Topics Drugs &amp; Supplements Genetics Medical Tests Videos &amp; Tools About MedlinePlus Search     Search MedlinePlus    GO      About MedlinePlus What's New Site Map Customer Support     Health TopicsDrugs &amp; SupplementsGeneticsMedical TestsVideos &amp; Tools         You Are Here:  Home 			→ 			   Genetics 					→ 					   Help Me Understand Genetics 					→ 					   Genetic Testing 					→ 					   How is genetic testing done?
 URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/genetics/understanding/testing/procedure/      How is genetic testing done?
 To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.
 From Genetics Home Reference.
 Learn more     Once a person decides to proceed with genetic testing, a medical geneticist, primary care doctor, specialist, or nurse practitioner can order the test.
 Genetic testing is often done as part of a genetic consultation.
 Genetic tests are performed on a sample of blood, hair, skin, amniotic fluid (the fluid that surrounds a fetus during pregnancy), or other tissue.
 For example, a procedure called a buccal smear uses a small brush or cotton swab to collect a sample of cells from the inside surface of the cheek.
 The sample is sent to a laboratory where technicians look for specific changes in chromosomes, DNA, or proteins, depending on the suspected disorder.
 The laboratory reports the test results in writing to a person's doctor or genetic counselor, or directly to the patient if requested.
 Newborn screening tests are done on a small blood sample, which is taken by pricking the baby's heel.
 Unlike other types of genetic testing, a parent will usually only receive the result if it is positive.
 If the test result is positive, additional testing is needed to determine whether the baby has a genetic disorder.
 Before a person has a genetic test, it is important that he or she understands the testing procedure, the benefits and limitations of the test, and the possible consequences of the test results.
 The process of educating a person about the test and obtaining permission is called informed consent.
 For more information about genetic testing procedures:   The National Society of Genetic Counselors offers an overview of the genetic testing process.
 A brief overview of how genetic testing is done is also available from The National Cancer Institute.
 The Genetic Science Learning Center at the University of Utah provides an interactive animation of DNA extraction techniques.
 Topics in the Genetic Testing chapterWhat is genetic testing?What are the types of genetic tests?How is genetic testing done?What is informed consent?How can consumers be sure a genetic test is valid and useful?What do the results of genetic tests mean?What is the cost of genetic testing, and how long does it take to get the results?Will health insurance cover the costs of genetic testing?What are the benefits of genetic testing?What are the risks and limitations of genetic testing?What is genetic discrimination?Can genes be patented?How does genetic testing in a research setting differ from clinical genetic testing?What are whole exome sequencing and whole genome sequencing?What are secondary findings from genetic testing?What is noninvasive prenatal testing (NIPT) and what disorders can it screen for?What is circulating tumor DNA and how is it used to diagnose and manage cancer?Other chapters in Help Me Understand Genetics     Genetics Home Reference has merged with MedlinePlus.
 Genetics Home Reference content now can be found in the "Genetics" section of MedlinePlus.
 Learn more  The resources on this site should not be used as a substitute for professional medical care or advice.
 Users with questions about a personal health condition should consult with a qualified healthcare professional.
 About MedlinePlus What's New Site Map Customer Support   Get updates Subscribe to RSS  Follow us            Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Guidelines for Links Viewers &amp; Players MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs For Developers   U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health   Page last updated on 18 September 2020
