Connect with us!
 Home 								    									About 								      			Who We Are 		      			Calendar 		      			Years in Review 		      			Contact Us 		        									Ongoing 								      			40 Days for Life 		      			Wacoan Magazine 		      			#ProtestBOA (Bank of America) 		      			PP Fundraiser Protests 		      			Never Again in Waco 		      			Abortion Returns to Waco 		      			Billboards in Waco 		      			Billboard Truck 		      			Self-Directed Seminar: Fetal Organ Harvesting Videos 		      			Planned Promiscuity Exposé 		&gt;       			Overview 		      			PP International (IPPF) 		      			PP National (PPFA) 		      			PP Local Affiliates 		      			Other Resources 		         			Letters to the Editor 		      			Serving the Cause 		&gt;       			Get 501C3 		      			HPTLA group on Facebook 		           									Monthly &amp; Yearly 								      			Roe Day Ad 		      			Second Sunday Meetings 		      			Interstate Overpass Outreach 		      			Life Chain 		      			Nat'l Day of Remembrance 		      			HOT Fair Booth 		      			Vote Pro-Life Campaigns 		        									HTPLA on FB 								    									Victories 								      			Hope House 		      			Nobody's Fool Closed 		        									CookieCotts 								      			CookieCotts 2016, '15, &amp; '14 		      			2004 Cookie Boycott 		&gt;       			Boycott Overview 		      			Boycott Ads on Radio 		      			TV &amp; Radio News 		      			Waco News 		      			National News 		      			Editorials 		      			Letters to the Editor 		      			National Investigation 		      			Closer Look at Girl Scouts 		           									Editorial Combat Waco&plus; 								    									Donate 								    									Blog 								                  Boycott Overview2004 Girl Scout Cookie Boycott in Waco       CBN 700 Club feature story providing an overview of the 2004 Girl Scout cookie boycott in Waco.
 (Apologies for the lack of perfect quality in this video.
 The content, however, is very good.)
 What Precipitated the 2004 Girl Scout Controversy?
 In 2004, Bluebonnet Girl Scout Council was headquartered in Waco, Texas and served fourteen counties in Central Texas.
 (In 2007, the Bluebonnet Council was absorbed into a larger Girl Scout council with headquarters in Austin.)
 There were three reason for the boycott.
 First, for nine years, the Bluebonnet Council had co-sponsored the Nobody's Fool summer sex education program.
 This event is offered to Waco-area teens and pre-teens by Planned Parenthood Waco.
 Planned Parenthood Waco launched an abortion facility in Waco in 1994 and by 2004 had committed nearly 10,000 abortions.
 With sponsorship of Nobody's Fool, the Bluebonnet Council placed the national Girl Scout logo on the program flyer and advertisements.
 Girl Scout employees also served as volunteers for the Nobody's Fool.
 With the "anything goes", nonjudgmental approach to child sexuality, the claim to promote abstinence is totally out of character for Planned Parenthood.
 Rather than abstinence, planned promiscuity is a much more accurate description.
 Second, the 2003 Nobody’s Fool became even more objectionable when program began giving youngsters in grades 7-9 the outrageous sex education (promotion) book, It's Perfectly Normal, by Robie Harris.
 The book, still in publication, is an assault on Christian sexual morality and is borderline pornography, if not over the border.
 Click above for a short article about the themes of the book.
 The central message of the It's Perfectly Normal book is that any sexual activity you can imagine in any type of relationship is p-e-r-f-e-c-t-l-y  n-o-r-m-a-l.
 There are chapters on homosexuality, masturbation, contraception, and abortion.
 The chapter on abortion gives "nine good reasons why women have abortions."
 We won't show the actual provocative drawings of this book.
 Our printer actually refused to reproduce the drawings.
 Here are some of the book drawing with cover-up spots  added.
 Yes, Girl Scouts in Central Texas sponsored the distribution of this book to children!
 You are encouraged to examine the book for yourself.
 The book is available (sadly) in many public libraries.
 The third development that led to the boycott occurred in May of 2003.
 The Bluebonnet Girl Scout Council bestowed their "Woman of Distinction" honor on the CEO of Planned Parenthood Waco.
 See the proud announcement by the Bluebonnet Council leadership here.
 Women of Distinction held up as role models for young girls.
 Since the Planned Parenthood CEO managed the abortion facility in Waco, the implication was that some Girl Scout might grow up and aspire to managing a business killing per-born girls and boys!
 At the time of the Woman of Distinction honor, Planned Parenthood had committed nearly 10,000 abortions.
 These three elements of Girl Scout entanglement with Planned Parenthood led Pro-Life Waco to launch a Waco-area boycott in early February of 2004.
 Victory--the Bluebonnet Council severing all ties with Planned Parenthood--was won in less than three weeks.
 The following are key links to the features of Girl Scout capitulation in the face of overwhelming public pressure.
 700 Club video overview of the Girl Scout cookie boycott controversy             Waco Tribune-Herald.
