(a) He must move onto the field of play or the end z
one as far as the inside of the field numerals prior to
 
the snap to be a legal substitution. If he does not
, and is on the field of play or end zone at the tim
e of 
a legal snap, he is an illegal substitute. 
 (b) If he approaches the huddle and communicates wi
th a teammate, he is required to participate in at 
least one play before being withdrawn. Violations of 
this rule may be penalized for unsportsmanlike 
conduct. 
Note: The intent of the rule is to prevent teams from 
using simulated substitutions to confuse an opponen
t, 
while still permitting a player(s) to enter and leave 
without participating in a play in certain situations
, such 
as a change in a coaching decision on fourth down, e
ven though he has approached the huddle and 
communicated with a teammate. Similarly, if a player 
who
participated in the previous play leaves the 
playing field by mistake, and returns to the playing 
field prior to the snap, he is not required to reach the
 
inside of the field numerals, provided that the defe
nse has the opportunity to match up with him. Howeve
r, 
a substitute (i.e., someone who did not participate 
in the previous play) is required to reach the inside o
f 
the field numerals. 
WITHDRAWN PLAYERS 
Article 6

A player or players who have been replaced must leave t
he playing field or end zone on their own 
team's side between the end lines prior to the next s
nap, free kick, or fair-catch kick. 
DISQUALIFIED AND SUSPENDED PLAYERS 
Article 7

A player must be withdrawn and substituted for when he
 is disqualified (see 12-2, 12-3) or 
suspended (see 5-4). A suspended player may re-enter a
fter at least one legal snap, provided that the 
reason for his suspension has been corrected. A disqual
ified player must leave the playing field enclosure 
and go to the team locker room within a reasonable tim
e. 
PENALTIES FOR ILLEGAL SUBSTITUTION OR WITHDRAWAL 
Article 8  Penalties for illegal substitution or with
drawal are: 
(a) For 12 or more players in the offensive huddle (
whistle blown immediately and ball remains 
dead): Loss of five yards from the succeeding spot. 
(b) For a substitute entering the field during a live
 ball: Loss of five yards. 
(c) For interference with the play by a substitute who
 enters the field during a live ball: Palpably 
unfair act (see 12-3-3). 
(d) For an offensive substitute who does not move on
to the field as far as the inside of the field 
numerals: Loss of five yards from the previous spot. 
(e) For an offensive substitute who moves onto the f
ield inside the field numerals and leaves 
without participating in one play: Unsportsmanlike Condu
ct. 
(f) For a withdrawn player on the field at the snap, 
free kick, or fair-catch kick: Loss of five 
yards from the previous spot. 
(g) For a withdrawn player clearing the field on the
 opponents' side or across an end line: Loss 
of five yards from the previous spot. 
(h) For illegal return of a suspended player: Loss of 
five yards from the previous spot if 
discovery is made while the ball is in play, or five
 yards from the succeeding spot if 
discovered between downs, in which case the ball rema
ins dead. 
(i) For return of a disqualified player: Loss of 15 ya
rds from the previous spot if discovery is 
made while the ball is in play, or 15 yards from the 
succeeding spot if discovered between 
downs, in which case the ball remains dead, and, in 
either case, exclusion from the playing 
field enclosure. 
 SUPPLEMENTAL NOTE: 
If the illegal return of a player is not discovered unt
il the end of a down, but prior to the start of the n
ext one, 
enforcement is from the previous spot when definitely 
known. Otherwise, enforcement is from the 
succeeding spot as a foul between downs (see 14-5).
 PROCEDURE FOLLOWING TIMEOUT OR CHANGE OF POSSESSION 
Article 9

Following a timeout or change of possession, the bal
l will not be declared ready for play until the 
offense has brought 11 players into its huddle inside
 the inbounds lines (hashmarks). If the offensive te
am 
refuses to leave the sideline prior to the ball being 
declared ready for play, it will be warned once. 
Thereafter, the offense will be penalized 15 yards for 
unsportsmanlike conduct. 
 Penalty: For Unsportsmanlike Conduct after a warning
: Loss of 15 yards from the succeeding spot. 
OFFICIAL NFL PLAYING RULES 24
 If there is an offensive substitution that occurs aft
er the offensive team has broken its huddle, the play
 clock will 
be stopped, and the defense will be allowed an oppo
rtunity to matchup. 
DEFENSIVE MATCHUPS FOLLOWING SUBSTITUTIONS 
Article 10

If a substitution is made by the offense, the offen
se shall not be permitted to snap the ball until the
 
defense has been permitted to respond with its substi
tutions. While in the process of a substitution (or 
simulated substitution), the offense is prohibited f
rom rushing quickly to the line of scrimmage and 
snapping the ball in an obvious attempt to cause a 
defensive foul (i.e., too many men on the field). I
f, in the 
judgment of the officials, this occurs, the followin
g procedure will apply: 
 (a) The Umpire will stand over the ball until the Re
feree deems that the defense has had a reasonable 
time to complete its substitutions. 
 (b) If a play takes place and a defensive foul for 
too many players on the field results, no penalties 
will be 
enforced, except for personal fouls and unsportsmanlike
 conduct, and the down will be replayed. At 
this time, the Referee will notify the head coach th
at any further use of this tactic will result in a pen
alty 
for unsportsmanlike conduct. 
Note: The quick-snap rule does not apply after the tw
o-minute warning of either half, or if there is not a 
substitution by the offense. 
(c) On a fourth-down punting situation, the Referee a
nd the Umpire will not allow a quick snap that 
prevents the defense from having a reasonable time to
 complete its substitutions. This applies 
throughout the entire game. 
UNSPORTSMANLIKE CONDUCT 
Article 11

Using entering substitutes, legally returning players, 
substitutes on sidelines, or withdrawn players 
to confuse opponents, or lingering by players leaving 
the field when being replaced by a substitute, is 
unsportsmanlike conduct. See 12-3-1-k. The offense i
s prevented from sending simulated substitutions 
onto the field toward its huddle and returning them to
 the sideline without completing the substitution i
n an 
attempt to confuse the defense. 
 Penalty: For Unsportsmanlike Conduct after a warning
: Loss of 15 yards from the succeeding spot. 
Section 3 Changes in Position 
REPORTING CHANGE OF POSITION 
Article 1

An offensive player wearing the number of an ineligibl
e pass receiver (50-79 and 90-99) is permitted 
to line up in the position of an eligible pass recei
ver (1-49 and 80-89), and an offensive player wearing 
the 
number of an eligible pass receiver is permitted to lin
e up in the position of an ineligible pass receiver,
 
provided that he immediately reports the change in his
 eligibility status to the Referee, who will inform t
he 
defensive team. 
He must participate in such eligible or ineligible po
sition as long as he is continuously in the game, b
ut prior to 
each play he must again report his status to the Refe
ree, who will inform the defensive team. The game 
clock shall not be stopped, and the ball shall not 
be put in play until the Referee takes his normal pos
ition. 
RETURNING TO ORIGINAL POSITION 
Article 2

A player who has reported a change in his eligibility 
status to the Referee is permitted to return to a 
position indicated by the eligibility status of his
 number after: 
(a) a team timeout; 

(b) the end of a quarter;  

(c) the two-minute warning;  
 (d) a foul;  

 (e) a replay challenge;  

 (f) a touchdown;  

 (g) a completed kick from scrimmage;  

 (h) a change of possession; or 

 (i) if the player has been withdrawn for one legal sn
ap. A player withdrawn for one legal snap may re-
enter at a position indicated by the eligibility sta
tus of his number, unless he again reports to the 
Referee that he is assuming a position other than tha
t designated by the eligibility status of his 
number. 
OFFICIAL NFL PLAYING RULES 25
 A.R. 5.1

Offensive tackle A1 is legally shifted to the backf
ield and is then withdrawn. He returns before the n
ext snap to 
a tackle position. 
Ruling:
Illegal. He must stay out one play, or have his tea
m request a team time out. See 5-3-2 and 7-2-4-
Exc. 
Article 3

Each offensive and defensive team is permitted 
no more than
 one player on the field with a speaker 
in his helmet. 
Each team is permitted to have a maximum of three act
ive radio receivers to be used on 
offense by its quarterbacks, and a maximum of two act
ive radio receivers to be used on defense by 
players who have been designated as a primary and back
up user.
 Clubs that have a player whose principal position is 
as a non-quarterback (e.g., wide receiver, running back)
 
and who also is used as a quarterback from time to tim
e must have two helmets for that playerÐone with 
and one without radio components. 
When 
a quarterback
 enters the game for the first time, or re-enters the gam
e if he has previously been in the 
game and removed, he must report to the Referee.  
Whenever the backup defensive user enters 
or re-enters 
the game wearing a helmet with a speaker, he must 
report to the Umpire. If the primary defensive user subse
quently re-enters the game wearing a helmet with 
a speaker, he must report to the Umpire. 
If the primary and backup players have been removed from
 the 
game, no other player may wear the radio speaker in his 
helmet. Teams must use other methods to 
communicate signals to their players. 
 It is not necessary that the offensive player with th
e speaker in his helmet receive the snap.  
 For special teams' plays, only one player per team wi
th a receiver will be permitted on the field
. The coach-to-player system is not subject to the equ
ity rule. In the event one club experiences a coach-t
o-
player radio system malfunction or failure, the other c
lub does not have to shut down its system and may 
continue using it. However, if the coaches' intercom 
system has been completely shut down on both 
sidelines pursuant to the equity rule, all coaches' h
eadsets must be removed, and radio communications 
from the sidelines to the field must be conducted by
 walkie-talkie only. 
All players that have radio components in their helmet
 must have a decal, supplied by the League, displaye
d on 
the midline of the rear of the helmet. Players who ha
ve speakers in their helmets must be identified in th
e 
Communication System section of the Game Day Admini
stration Report that is submitted to the Referee or 
a member of his crew no later than one hour and 30 minu
tes prior to kickoff. 
For additional requirements and policies pertaining to 
the system, including regulations for the storage of a
 
backup helmet for a non-quarterback who is used as a q
uarterback, or for the backup defensive player's 
helmet, please refer to the 
Policy Manual for Member Clubs/Game Operations.
 Penalty: If a player fails to notify the Referee of a c
hange in his status when required: Loss of five 
yards for illegal substitution. 
Section 4 Equipment, Uniforms, Player Appearance 
GENERAL POLICY 
Article 1

Throughout the game-day period while in view of the s
tadium and television audience, including 
during pregame warm-ups, all players must dress in a prof
essional manner under the uniform standards 
specified in this Section 4. They must wear equipmen
t offering reasonable protection to themselves while 
reasonably avoiding risk of injury to other players. The
y generally must present an appearance that is 
appropriate to representing their individual clubs and t
he National Football League. The term uniform, as 
used in this policy, applies to every piece of equip
ment worn by a player, including helmet, shoulder pad
s, 
thigh pads, knee pads, and any other item of protecti
ve gear, and to every visible item of apparel, 
including but not limited to pants, jerseys, wristban
ds, gloves, stockings, shoes, visible undergarments, 
and accessories such as headwear, worn under helmets an
d hand towels. All visible items worn on game-
day by players must be issued by the club or the Leagu
e, or, if from outside sources, must have approval 
in advance by the League office. 
Team c
olors Article 2

Pursuant to the official colors established for each N
FL club in the League Constitution and Bylaws, 
playing squads are permitted to wear only those colors 
or a combination of those colors for helmets, 
jerseys, pants, and stockings; provided that white is
 also an available color for jerseys and mandatory 
color for the lower portion of stockings [see 5-3-3-(f
), ªStockings,º below]. Each player on a given team 
must wear the same colors on his uniform as all other 
players on his team in the same game. Before July 1 
each year, home clubs are required to report to the League
 office their choice of jersey color (either white 
or official team color) for their home games of that f
orthcoming season, and visiting clubs must wear the 
opposite. For preseason, regular season, or postseason g
ames, the two competing teams may wear 
OFFICIAL NFL PLAYING RULES 26
 jerseys in their official colors (non-white), provided
 the Commissioner determines that such colors are of 
sufficient contrast. 
Mandatory e
quipment, a
pparel Article 3

All players must wear the equipment and uniform apparel
 listed below, which must be of a suitably 
protective nature, must be designed and produced by a 
professional manufacturer, and must not be cut, 
reduced in size, or otherwise altered unless for medical
 reasons approved in advance by the 
Commissioner. During pregame warm-ups players may omit c
ertain protective equipment at their option, 
except that helmets must be worn. Where additional rul
es are applicable to specific categories of 
mandatory equipment or apparel, or where related equipmen
t is optional, such provisions are also spelled 
out below. 
Helmets, f
ace p
rotectors (a) Helmet with chinstrap (white only) fastened and 
facemask attached. Facemasks must not be more 
than 5/8-inch in diameter and must be made of rounded
 material; transparent materials are 
prohibited. 
 Clear (transparent) plastic eye shields are optional. 
Tinted eye shields may be worn only after the 
League office is supplied with appropriate medical do
cumentation and approval is subsequently 
granted. The League office has final approval. 
 No visible identification of a manufacturer's name o
r logo on the exterior of a helmet or on any 
attachment to a helmet is permitted unless provided f
or under a commercial arrangement between the 
League and manufacturer; in no event is identification
 of any helmet manufacturer permitted on the 
visible surface of a rear cervical pad. All helmets mus
t carry a small NFL shield logo on the rear lower-
left exterior and an approved warning label on the rear l
ower-right exterior. Both labels will be supplied 
in quantity by the League office. 
Jerseys (b) Jersey must cover all pads and other protective equ
ipment worn on the torso and upper arms, and 
must be appropriately tailored to remain tucked into th
e uniform pants throughout the game. 
Tearaway jerseys are prohibited. Mesh jerseys with large 
fishnet material (commonly referred to as 
ªbullet-holeº or ªport-holeº mesh) are also prohibited
. Surnames of players in letters a minimum of 2 
1/2-inches high must be affixed to the exterior of j
erseys across the upper back above the numerals; 
nicknames are prohibited. All jerseys must carry a smal
l NFL Equipment logo at the middle of the 
yoke of the neck on the front of the garment. All fab
rics must be approved by the League office prior 
to production. 
Numerals (c) Numerals on the back and front of jerseys in acco
rdance with Rule 5, Section 1, Article 2. Such 
numerals must be a minimum of 8 inches high and 4 in
ches wide, and their color must be in sharp 
contrast with the color of the jersey. Smaller numerals 
should be worn on the tops of the shoulders or 
upper arms of the jersey. Small numerals on the back of
 the helmet or on the uniform pants are 
optional. 
 Pants  (d) Pants must be worn over the entire knee area; pants
 shortened or rolled up to meet the stockings 
above the knee are prohibited. No part of the pants ma
y be cut away unless an appropriate gusset or 
other device is used to replace the  removed material. 
All pants must carry a small NFL Equipment 
logo on the front left groin area of the pants, midway
 between the fly opening and side seam, and 1/2-
inch below the belt.
 Shoulder P
ads (e) Shoulder pads must be completely covered by the u
niform jersey. 
Stockings (f) Stockings must cover the entire area from the shoe 
to the bottom of the pants, and must meet the   
pants below the knee. Players are permitted to wear as 
many layers of stockings and tape on the   
lower leg as they prefer, provided the exterior is a one-
piece stocking that includes solid white from  
  the top of the shoe to the mid-point of the lower 
leg, and approved team color or colors (non-white)  
  from that point to the top of the stocking. Uniform
 stockings may not be altered (e.g., over-stretched, 
   cut at the toes, or sewn short) in order to bring the 
line between solid white and team colors lower or  
  higher than the mid-point of the lower leg. No othe
r stockings and/or opaque tape may be worn over  
OFFICIAL NFL PLAYING RULES 27
 the one-piece, two-color uniform stocking. Barefoot pun
ters and placekickers may omit the stocking  
  of the kicking foot in preparation for and during kic
king plays. 
Shoes (g) Shoes must be of standard football design, inclu
ding ªsneakerº type shoes such as basketball shoes,
 
cross-training shoes, etc. League-approved tri-colored sh
oes are permitted with black, white, and one 
team color. Each team must select a dominant color fo
r its shoes, either black or white (with shoelace 
color conforming to the dominant color of the tongue a
rea of the manufacturer's shoe). The selection 
of dominant color must be reported by each team to the
 League office no later than July 1 each year. 
Each player may select among shoe styles previously a
pproved by the League office. All players on 
the same team must wear shoes with the same dominant
 color. Approved shoe styles will contain one 
team color which must be the same for all players on a
 given team. A player may wear an unapproved 
standard football shoe style as long as the player ta
pes over the entire shoe to conform to his team's 
selected dominant color. Logos, names, or other commerci
al identification on shoes are not permitted 
to be visible unless advance approval is granted by t
he League office (see Article 7). Size and location 
of logos and names on shoes must be approved by the 
League office. When a shoe logo or a name 
approved by the League office is covered with an appro
priate use of tape (see Article 4(f)), players will 
be allowed to cut out the tape covering the original 
logo or name, provided the cut is clean and is the 
exact size of the logo or name. The logo or name of t
he shoe manufacturer must not be reapplied to 
the exterior of taped shoes unless advance approval is
 granted by the League office. Kicking shoes 
must not be modified (including using a shoelace wra
pped around toe and/or bottom of the shoe), 
and any shoe that is worn by a player with an artifici
al limb on his kicking leg must have a kicking 
surface that conforms to that of a normal kicking shoe
. Punters and placekickers may omit the shoe 
from the kicking foot in preparation for and during kic
king plays. Punters and placekickers may wear 
any combination of tri-colored shoes provided that the
 colors are consistent with those selected by the 
team and with the policy listed above. 
OTHER PROHIBITED EQUIPMENT, APPAREL 
Article 4

In addition to the several prohibited items of equipm
ent and apparel specified in Article 3 above, the 
following are also prohibited: 
Projecting O
bjects (a) Metal or other hard objects that project from a play
er's person or uniform, including from his shoes. 
Uncovered H
ard O
bjects, S
ubstances (b) Hard objects and substances, including but not l
imited to casts, guards or braces for hand, wrist, 
forearm, elbow, hip, thigh, knee, and shin, unless su
ch items are appropriately covered on all edges 
and surfaces by a minimum of 3/8-inch foam rubber or si
milar soft material. Any such item worn to 
protect an injury must be reported by the applicable co
aching staff to the Umpire in advance of the 
game, and a description of the injury must be provided
. If the Umpire determines that an item in 
question, including tape or bandages on hands or forea
rms, may present undue risk to other players, 
he may prevent its use at a time before or during a gam
e until the item is removed or appropriately 
corrected. 
Detachable T
oe (c) Detachable kicking toe. 
Torn I
tems (d) Torn or improperly fitting equipment creating a risk 
of injury to other players, e.g., the hard surfaces of 
shoulder
pads exposed by a damaged jersey. 
Improper C
leats(e) Shoe cleats made of aluminum or other material tha
t may chip, fracture, or develop a cutting edge. 
Conical cleats with concave sides or points which me
asure less than 3/8-inch in diameter at the tips, 
or cleats with oblong ends which measure less than 1
/4 by 3/4-inch at the end tips are also prohibited. 
Nylon cleats with flat steel tips are permitted. 
OFFICIAL NFL PLAYING RULES 28
 Improper T
ape (f) Opaque, contrasting-color tape that covers any part
 of the helmet, jersey, pants, stockings, or shoes; 
transparent tape or tape of the same color as the backg
round material is permissible for use on these 
items of apparel. Players may use opaque, white, blac
k, or one dominant club color tape on hands 
and arms, provided it conforms to 5-4-4(b) above (ªUnc
overed Hard Objects, Substancesº) and 5-4-
4(h) below (ªApproved Glove Colorº). Opaque tape on s
hoes is permitted, provided it is the same 
color as the shoe, and provided it does not carry up in
to the stocking area. 
Items C
olored L
ike F
ootball (g) Headgear or any other equipment or apparel which, in
 the opinion of the Referee, may confuse an 
opponent because of its similarity in color to that 
of the game football. If such color is worn, it must 
be 
broken by stripes or other patterns of sharply contrasting
 color or colors. 
Approved G
love C
olor (h) Gloves, wrappings, elbow pads, and other items wo
rn on the arms below or over the jersey sleeves by 
interior offensive linemen (excluding tight ends) whi
ch are of a color different from that which is 
mandatorily reported to the League office by the club b
efore July 1 each year. Such reported color 
must be white or other official color of the applicabl
e team, and, once reported, must not be changed 
throughout that same season. Players at other position
s (non-interior linemen) also may wear gloves 
provided they are a solid white, solid black, or a sol
id color that is an official color of the applicable 
club. Gloves may also be a tri-color combination of b
lack, white, and one (1) official color of the 
applicable club. Gloves may also be a bi-color combi
nation of black or white with one (1) official color 
of the applicable team. Clubs are not required to desi
gnate to the League office by July 1, the color of 
gloves that will be worn by their non-interior lineme
n. 
Adhesive, S
lippery S
ubstances (i) Adhesive or slippery substances on the body, equ
ipment, or uniform of any player; provided, 
however, thatplayers may wear gloves with a tackified 
surface if such tacky substance does not 
adhere to the football or otherwise cause
handling problems for players. 
Garments U
nder J
erseys(j) Quarterbacks will be allowed to wear under the game
 jersey a solid-color T-shirt, turtleneck, or 
sweatshirt (consistent with team undergarment color) wi
th sleeves cut to any length, as long as both 
sleeves are evenly trimmed and the edges are sewn and 
hemmed. All other players may wear 
garments under game jerseys only if the undergarment sle
eves either (a) do not extend below the 
sleeves of the jersey; or (b) are full length to the 
wrist. No other sleeve lengths for garments under 
jerseys are permitted for players other than quarterbacks. 
Players may not wear long-sleeved 
undergarments that include pebble-grip sleeves. Any ga
rments under jerseys that are exposed at the 
neck or sleeve area and that carry an exposed logo or co
mmercial name must be licensed by and 
approved by the League office for wear on the field (s
ee Article 7). All members of the same team who 
wear approved undergarments with exposed necks or sleeve
s must wear the same color on a given 
day, which color must be white or a solid color that i
s an official team color (solid means that sleeves 
must not carry stripes, designs, or team names). 
Prohibited H
eadwear C
overings (k) Players are not permitted to wear bandannas, stocki
ngs, or other unapproved headwear anywhere on 
the
field during the pregame, game, or postgame periods, ev
en if such items are worn under their 
helmet. 
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT 
Article 5

It is recommended that all players wear hip pads, thig
h pads, and knee pads which reasonably 
avoid the risk of injury. Unless otherwise provided by 
individual team policy, it is the players' responsib
ility 
and decision whether to follow this recommendation an
d use such pads. If worn, all three forms of pads 
listed above must be covered by the outer uniform. Bask
etball-type knee pads are permitted but must also 
be covered by the outer uniform. 
OPTIONAL EQUIPMENT 
Article 6

Among the types of optional equipment that are permi
tted to be worn by players are the following: 
Rib P
rotectors (a) Rib protectors (ªflak jacketsº) under the jersey. 
Wristbands (b) Wristbands, provided they are white or black only. 
 OFFICIAL NFL PLAYING RULES 29
 Towels (c) Towels, provided they are white licensed towels a
pproved by the League office for use on the playing 
field. Players are prohibited from adding to these towe
ls personal messages, logos, names, symbols, 
or illustrations. Such towels also must be attached t
o or tucked into the front waist of the pants, and 
must be no larger than 6 x 8 inches (slightly larger s
ize may be issued to quarterbacks, or may be 
folded to these limits for wearing in games). A playe
r may wear no more than one towel. Players are 
prohibited from discarding on the playing field any lo
ose towels or other materials used for wiping 
hands and the football. Streamers or ribbons, regardless 
of length, hanging from any part of the 
uniform, including the helmet, are prohibited. 
Headwear (d)  When players are on the field, as defined in Arti
cle 1, during the pregame, game and postgame 
periods, they may wear approved caps, approved cold wea
ther gear, or other approved headwear for 
medical purposes only, as determined by the Commissi
oner. Any permissible headwear must be 
approved by the League office, and if worn under the he
lmet, no portion may hang from or otherwise 
be visible outside the helmet. 
LOGOS AND COMMERCIAL IDENTIFICATION 
Article 7

Throughout the period on game-day that a player is vis
ible to the stadium and television audience 
(including in pregame warm-ups, in the bench area, and
 during postgame interviews in the locker room or 
on the field), players are prohibited from wearing, dis
playing, or orally promoting equipment, apparel, or 
other items that carry commercial names or logos of com
panies, unless such commercial identification 
has been approved in advance by the League office. Th
e size of any approved logo or other commercial 
identification involved in an agreement between a ma
nufacturer and the League will be modest and 
unobtrusive, and there is no assurance that it will be
 visible to the television audience. Subject to any
 future 
approved arrangements with a manufacturer and subject to
 any decision by the Commissioner to suspend 
enforcement temporarily of this provision governing shoe
s, visible logos and names of shoes are 
prohibited, including on the sole of the shoe that m
ay be seen from time to time during the game. 
PERSONAL MESSAGES 
Article 8

Throughout the period on game-day that a player is vis
ible to the stadium and television audience 
(including in pregame warm-ups, in the bench area, and
 during postgame interviews in the locker room or 
on the field), players are prohibited from wearing, disp
laying, or otherwise conveying personal messages 
either in writing or illustration, unless such messag
e has been approved in advance by the League office.
 
Items to celebrate anniversaries or memorable events, or
 to honor or commemorate individuals, such as 
helmet decals, and arm bands and jersey patches on pl
ayers' uniforms, are prohibited unless approved in 
advance by the League office. All such items must rel
ate to team or League events or personages. The 
League will not grant permission for any club or player t
o wear, display, or otherwise convey messages, 
through helmet decals, arm bands, jersey patches, or ot
her items affixed to game uniforms or equipment, 
which relate to political activities or causes, other 
non-football events, causes or campaigns, or charitabl
e 
causes or campaigns. Further, such armbands and jersey p
atches must be modest in size, tasteful, non-
commercial, and non-controversial; must not be worn fo
r more than one football season; and if approved 
for use by a specific team, must not be worn by playe
rs on other teams in the League. 
GENERAL APPEARANCE 
Article 9

Consistent with the equipment and uniform rules of th
is Section 4, players must otherwise present a 
professional and appropriate appearance while before the
 public on game-day. Among the types of 
activities that are prohibited are use of tobacco prod
ucts (smokeless included) while in the bench area an
d 
use of facial makeup. The Referee is authorized to us
e his judgment in determining whether any other 
unusual appearance or behavior is in violation of this
 Article 9. 
 Penalties: 
(a) For violation of this Section 4 discovered durin
g pregame warm-ups or at other times prior 
to the game, player will be advised to make appropria
te correction; if violation is not 
corrected, player will not be permitted to enter the g
ame. 
(b)  For violation of this Section 4 discovered while
 player is in game, player will be advised to 
make appropriate correction at the next change of posse
ssion; if violation is not corrected, 
player will not be permitted to enter the game. Provid
ed, however, if the violation involves 
the competitive aspects of the game (e.g., illegal ki
cking toe of shoe, an adhesive or slippery 
substance), player will be suspended immediately (remov
ed from the game for one play) 
upon discovery. 
 (c) For repeat violation: Disqualification from game.
 OFFICIAL NFL PLAYING RULES 30
 (d) For illegal entry or return of a player suspended
 under this Section 4: Loss of five yards from 
succeeding spot and removal until properly equipped after
 one down.
(e) For violation of this Section 4 detected in the 
bench area: Player and head coach will be 
asked to remove the objectionable item, properly equip th
e player, or otherwise correct the 
violation. The involved player or players will be disqu
alified from the game if correction is 
not made promptly. 
SUPPLEMENTAL NOTES 
Note 1: In addition to the game-day penalties speci
fied above, the Commissioner may subsequently impose
 
independent disciplinary action on the involved play
er, up to and including suspension from the team's 
next succeeding gameÐpreseason, regular season, or posts
eason, whichever is applicable. 
Note 2: If a player is suspended (removed from the gam
e for one play) for having adhesive or slippery 
substances on his body, equipment, or uniform, he mus
t remain out of the game for one play, even if there 
is a team timeout, the two-minute warning, or the end
 of a period. 
Note 3: If a player (kicker) is suspended (removed from
 the game for one play) for having an illegal kicking
 
shoe, he must remain out of the game for one play, un
less there is a team timeout, the two-minute 
warning, or the end of the period. 
OFFICIAL NFL PLAYING RULES 31
