Skip to main content                                Thanks for contacting us.
 We've received your submission.
 By John Crudele       View author archive     email the author     Get author RSS feed        Most Popular Today    1      USPS worker arrested at Canadian border with bin of mail, undelivered ballots   2      Anne Hathaway apologizes for 'The Witches' disability controversy   3      How to watch Joe Biden’s election speech live tonight   4      Another night of NYC protests: Nude fountain dancing and dinner with a show   5      Michigan Republicans claim software issue undercounted Trump votes      Name(required)    Email(required)    Comment(required)    Submit           		April 20, 2020 | 3:14pm				| Updated April 20, 2020 | 8:49pm    Enlarge Image     A general view of a "let's get back to work" sign as seen in front of a house in Hawthorne, NJ.
 Christopher Sadowski    Sign up for our special edition newsletter to get a daily update on the coronavirus pandemic.
 More from: John Crudele        Fannie Mae not doing enough to help with mortgages during coronavirus crisis  White House official's unemployment prediction purposefully missed the mark  Federal Reserve's policy-making committee won't have much to do at upcoming meeting  Barbershops -- and golf courses -- should reopen  Insurance companies need to be the ones to help small businesses out      More On: Coronavirus  Europe at odds over what's essential during new COVID-19 lockdowns  MLB barely tested for PEDs this season  DVD rental chain Family Video makes last stand against COVID-19  Couple marries in hospital parking lot after COVID-19 battle     In the 2015 movie “The Big Short” about the Great Recession, Brad Pitt’s character Ben Rickert is strolling in Las Vegas with two Wall Street colleagues who are elated about all the money they made betting that the US economy was in trouble.
 Their bet, of course, was that problems with mortgage-backed securities would hurt banks and the entire American financial system.
 That’s exactly what happened in real life.
 Pitt’s Rickert chastises his colleagues for acting so happy and says: “Every 1 percent unemployment goes up, 40,000 people die.
 Did you know that?” Is that 40,000 figure just Hollywood nonsense?
 Well, it’s not.
 Or at least it is close.
 And that, in a nutshell, is what President Trump has to deal with right now.
 If he opens up the economy, there could be a spike in cases of coronavirus and a rise in deaths unless there is some medical breakthrough.
 Already, 41,000 people are reported to have died from the disease in the US alone.
 But if the president keeps the economy closed, the unemployment rate is bound to climb and if you believe Pitt’s character — and the academic research upon which that statement is based — people will die because of that as well.
 There’s a technical term for this — it’s called being damned if you do and damned if you don’t.
 Before the economic mess this virus caused, the US unemployment rate was just 3.5 percent.
 In March, it rose to 4.4 percent.
 And there are predictions that it will go as high as 13 percent and maybe even 15 percent before people start returning to work.
 So, if the calculations are correct, that 10 percentage point-plus rise in the jobless rate would cause more than 400,000 deaths that have nothing to do with the virus and everything to do with the distressed economy.
 And, of course, there will be a lot of financial troubles for those who don’t die.
 But let’s just look at just the death rate.
 The actual figure in academic research is a 37,000 increase for each percentage-point rise in the unemployment rate.
 It comes from a book called “Corporate Flight: The Causes and Consequences of Economic Dislocation” by Barry Bluestone, Bennett Harrison and Lawrence Baker.
 “Corporate Flight” was published in 1982 and mainly had to do with companies moving operations overseas.
 I couldn’t reach Bluestone, Harrison or Baker, but last week I was able to contact Wade Thomas, who teaches economics and business at SUNY Oneonta and who quoted those figures in his own co-written 2005 book called “Economic Issues Today: Alternative Approaches.” Here’s the paragraph from Thomas’ book that applies: “According to one study [the one by Bluestone et al.]
 a 1 percent increase in the unemployment rate will be associated with 37,000 deaths [including 20,000 heart attacks], 920 suicides, 650 homicides, 4,000 state mental hospital admissions and 3,300 state prison admissions.”    see also                   								Pence defends Trump's call to 'liberate' states from coronavirus lockdown							         				Vice President Mike Pence on Sunday defended President Trump’s calls...							     Thomas says things are different today, but those old studies may help us understand the hidden problems that the coronavirus is causing.
 One, Washington acted quickly to help the unemployed.
 It didn’t when companies were moving overseas.
 And, as I said in my last column, a great deal of those who have lost their jobs because of the virus are only being furloughed.
 They are scheduled to get their jobs back once companies reopen their doors.
 Let’s hope that the data from 1981 is — excuse the expression — dead wrong.
 68,381          USPS worker arrested at Canadian border with bin of mail, undelivered ballots     This story has been shared 61,920 times.
 61,920   						'This election is far from over': President Trump refuses to concede					    This story has been shared 57,675 times.
 57,675   						Here's how Rudy Giuliani reacted to the news that Biden is president-elect					    This story has been shared 55,465 times.
 '); ga('set', 'dimension7', ''); ga('set', 'dimension12', 'Is unemployment really as deadly as coronavirus?
 "d1z2jf7jlzjs58.cloudfront.net" 		:"static.
 Email check failed, please try again			  				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
