News  News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety Business Real Estate News Housing Economy California News National News World News Politics Technology Education Environment Science Health Mr. Roadshow Weather SiliconValley.com Transportation The Cannifornian   Local  Local News Map Bay Area San Jose Santa Clara County Peninsula San Mateo County Alameda County Santa Cruz County Sal Pizarro   Opinion  Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters to the Editor Commentary Political Cartoons Election Endorsements   Sports  Sports San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Raiders Oakland Athletics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes College Sports Pac-12 Hotline High School Sports Other Sports Sports Columnists Sports Blogs Scores and Standings   Things To Do  Entertainment Things To Do Restaurants, Food and Drink Celebrities TV Streaming Movies Music Theater Lifestyle Advice Travel Pets and Animals Movie Listings Comics Puzzles and Games Horoscopes   Obituaries  Obituaries Local Obituaries Place an Obituary   Subscribe Log In Logout        						GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER.
 CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS.
 California Attorney General Kamala Harris announced the indictment of Valley Springs Manor owner Herminigilda Noveda Manuel and administrator Edgar Babael on 14 felony counts of elder abuse.
 Authorities say the pair left residents in the care of only a janitor and a cook for several days after the state abruptly shut down the facility in October 2013.
 Manuel was arrested Monday at San Francisco International Airport by agents from the Department of Homeland Security, said Sgt.
 J.D.
 Nelson with the Alameda County Sheriff’s Office.
 Babael’s whereabouts were not available, but a spokeswoman for Harris said a warrant had been issued for his arrest.
 Legislators have pushed the department to improve not only its procedures for orderly closure of facilities but also its maintenance of records showing individual facilities’ inspection and violation histories.
 Officials ordered the home closed after numerous code violations.
 But local authorities were not notified to assist residents with finding new homes, leaving residents with mental and physical disabilities with no medical personnel to care for them, feed them or provide them with medications after all but two of the staff walked away from their jobs.
 Neither was trained to care for the residents but said they didn’t want to leave the elderly men and women behind.
 Both men said Monday that they were glad someone was being held accountable for the debacle at Valley Springs.
 “It’s about time someone steps up to the plate and (takes) the blame for what happened,” Rowland said when he heard about the charges.
 I don’t wish bad on anybody, or that they should go to jail.
 I just think they should pay a fine.
 “Life is all about helping,” he said.
 “That’s what you’re supposed to do for people.
 It’s something you do (for) your mother, your child, your auntie or someone you don’t even know.
 Especially when you knew someone was taking advantage of them.
 According to the complaint, Manuel and Babael “knowingly and willingly” inflicted “unjustifiable physical pain and mental suffering” on 14 residents at the home in its last days, from October 18-24, 2013.
 A state official had posted a notice at the facility telling Manuel that she had until Oct. 28 to make sure the residents had new homes.
 Firefighters and paramedics found the residents, one of whom went missing when the facility was shuttered, in the late afternoon on Oct. 26.
 In the fallout from the closure, the Department of Social Services, which oversees the licensing of senior care facilities like Valley Springs Manor, admitted that they had a “complete breakdown” in communication and that the closure forced them to re-evaluate their closure process as well as update training for state employees who monitor facilities.
 In addition to a potential prison term, Manuel and Babael could both face a fine of as much as $6,000 for each felony count if convicted.
 Contact Katie Nelson at 408-920-5006 and follow her at Twitter.com/katienelson210.
