Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People     Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People        Search        ×  Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index                  Coronavirus             Section Navigation           TP Docs Home                       Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Syndicate                         Novel Coronavirus 2019, Wuhan, China     Minus     Related Pages     Situation Summary: View larger image On January 9, 2020, the World Health Organizationexternal icon reported that a novel (new) coronavirus in people was preliminarily identified by Chinese health authorities as part of the investigation into an outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China.
 The virus has been isolated from a specimen taken from one of the hospitalized patients in the outbreak.
 Full genetic sequencing of the virus isolate has preliminarily identified the virus as a novel coronavirus.
 Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses, some causing illness in people and others that circulate among animals, including camels, cats and bats.
 Rarely, animal coronaviruses can evolve and infect people and then spread between people.
 The outbreak in Wuhan, China has been reported to be linked to a large seafood and animal market, suggesting a possible zoonotic origin to the outbreak.
 Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses.
 There are several known human coronaviruses that usually only cause mild respiratory disease, such as the common cold.
 However, at least twice previously, coronaviruses have emerged to infect people and cause severe disease, such as has been seen with MERS and SARS.
 The characteristics of this virus and how it may affect people is still unclear.
 Risk Assessment: Outbreaks of novel virus infections among people are always of public health concern.
 The associated risk posed by such outbreaks depends on characteristics of the virus, including whether and how well it spreads between people, the severity of resulting illness, and the medical or other countermeasures available to control the impact of the virus.
 There is much to learn about the transmissibility, severity, and other features associated with this novel coronavirus, and investigations are ongoing in China.
 To date, there have been no reported deaths associated with this outbreak in China and no confirmed sustained person-to-person spread.
 There are no known human infections with this novel coronavirus in the United States or any other country outside of China, at this time.
 Based on current information, the risk from the Novel Coronavirus 2019 to the American public is deemed to be low, however, CDC is taking pro-active preparedness precautions.
 In the United States, CDC is the lead public health agency for this public health response.
 CDC Response:  CDC is closely monitoring this situation and is working closely with the World Health Organization (WHO), the lead international public health agency for this response.
 CDC has established an Incident Management Structure to optimize domestic and international coordination to this emerging public health threat if additional actions are required.
 CDC has issued an interim travel health notice for this destination to provide information to people who may be traveling to Wuhan City and who may get sick.
 CDC has issued an interim Health Alert Notice (HAN) Advisory to inform state and local health departments and health care providers about this outbreak.
 This is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation and CDC will provide updated information as it becomes available, in addition to updated guidance in the coming days on how to investigate possible infections with this new coronavirus.
 Other Available Resources The following resources are available with current information on the unnamed novel coronavirus  CDC Travelers’ Health: Pneumonia of Unknown Cause in China CDC Travelers’ Health information for people traveling to China CDC Health Alert Network Advisory information for state and local health departments and health care providers CDC Information on Coronaviruses Pneumonia Outbreak in Chinaexternal icon World Health Organization (WHO) Statement Regarding Cluster of Pneumonia Cases in Wuhan, Chinaexternal icon            						Page last reviewed: January 10, 2020 Content source: 	National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases          home Coronavirus Home    About Coronavirusesplus icon  Symptoms and Diagnosis Transmission Prevention and Treatment    Human Coronavirus Typesplus icon  Novel Coronavirus 2019 SARS-CoV MERS-CoV   Resources and References              HAVE QUESTIONS?
 updateVariables(s);  		// Set the referrer value if passed on the querystring from a CDC page-level redirect.
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
