BREAKING: Pfizer says early data shows Covid-19 vaccine is 90 percent effectiveNewsNBC News NOWNightly NewsMeet the PressDatelineMSNBCTODAYPresidential resultsElections live blogFull coverageShare this —SearchSectionsCORONAVIRUSU.S.
 NewsPoliticsWorldLocalBusinessHealthInvestigationsCulture MattersScienceSportsTech &amp; MediaDecision 2020In FocusPhotosWeatherShoppingTVTodayMSNBCNightly NewsMeet The PressDatelineFeaturedNBC NEWS NOWTHINKBETTERNIGHTLY FILMSNBC LEFT FIELDASIAN AMERICANBC LATINONBCBLKNBC OUTSTAY TUNEDSPECIAL FEATURESNEWSLETTERSPODCASTSMore from NBCCNBCNBC.COMNBC LEARNPeacockNext Steps for VetsParent ToolkitNBC ArchivesKnow Your ValueCOUPONS Follow NBC News SearchFacebookTwitterEmailSMSPrintWhatsappRedditPocketFlipboardPinterestLinkedinU.S.
 newsRussia Hack of U.S.
 Politics Bigger Than Disclosed, Includes GOPRussian President Vladimir Putin meets with President Barack Obama on the sidelines of the G20 Summit in Hangzhou, China, Sept. 5.SPUTNIK / ReutersOct.
 8, 2016, 1:16 PM UTC / Updated Oct. 8, 2016, 1:16 PM UTCBy Josh MeyerWikileaks releases personal emails from Hillary Clinton's campaign chairmanOct.
 8, 201602:11The Russian government’s cyber-espionage campaign against the American political system began more than a year ago and has been far more extensive than publicly disclosed, targeting hundreds of key people –- Republicans and Democrats alike -- whose work is considered strategically important to the Putin regime, official sources told NBC News.The targets over the past two years have included a Who's Who of Hillary Clinton associates from her State Department tenure, the Clinton Foundation and her presidential campaign, as well as top Republicans and staffers for Republican candidates for president.Starting in earnest in 2015, Russian hackers used sophisticated “spearphishing” techniques to steal emails and other data from Capitol Hill staffers, operatives of political campaigns and party organizations, and other people involved in the election and foreign policy.
 That’s according to NBC News interviews with more than two dozen current and former U.S. officials, private sector cybersecurity experts and others familiar with the FBI-led investigation into the hacks.“For the past two years, there has been a massive increase in hacking by the Russians,” said Dmitri Alperovitch, a cybersecurity expert whose CrowdStrike firm was retained to investigate the hack of the Democratic National Committee.“Not all of it is politics.
 It is across the board,” added Alperovitch, who is involved in the investigation.
 “But it got more intense this year with the election.”The Obama administration finally blamed Russia publicly for the hacks on Friday, prompting another round of denials by Russia.
 But behind the scenes, the FBI and Department of Homeland Security have provided numerous classified briefings in recent months to Capitol Hill staffs about the hacks.
 The briefings described targeting of both parties, primarily by accessing the private email accounts of operatives, one senior Capitol Hill staffer who attended the briefings told NBC News on Thursday.The staffer said that many victims were notified by investigators that they had been hacked, and told to conduct damage assessments, but said the victims were not put under obligation to make the hacks public.U.S.
 Gov't Officially Blames Russian Gov't for Election HacksOct.
 7, 201601:30Orders From the KremlinU.S.
 authorities believe the hacking campaign originated with direct orders from the Kremlin and is an attempt to influence the presidential election and advance the broader strategic objectives of the Putin regime.The hack has especially targeted individuals around Democratic nominee Clinton, according to sources with knowledge of the investigation.
 Friday's release of campaign chair John Podesta's hacked emails and apparent excerpts of Clinton's Goldman Sachs speeches was the latest in the series of email dumps, including the release of data stolen from DNC and Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee staffers.
 Democrats are bracing for the potential release of still more emails hacked from Democratic sources.
 Sources said emails from individuals associated with the Clinton Foundation were hacked, and may be part of upcoming data dumps from WikiLeaks or DCLeaks.com.But the hackers –- some of whom are believed to be Russian government employees working regular hours just like other bureaucrats –- have also quietly targeted a broad array of Republicans too as part of the same cyberespionage campaign, say sources.One cybersecurity expert involved in the investigations said “hundreds of people” have been targeted.
 “High-profile former officials, political figures, current officials.”“I can’t tell you who the Russians are going to leak information about next,” he told NBC News.
 “The only thing I can tell you is that there are going to be more leaks.”Some Republicans contacted by NBC News were aware of attempted hacks, but none reported recent breaches.
 In June, DCLeaks.com, believed by U.S intelligence to be linked to the Russian government, released hacked emails dating from 2015 of some Republican targets, including staffers for the campaigns of John McCain and Lindsey Graham -- both Putin critics -- and staffers from state parties.Senator Lindsey Graham speaks during a press conference, in Cairo, Egypt on April 3, 2016.
 STR / EPARussia has long used hacking and other high-tech tools to gather intelligence, just like the United States, China and other nations eager to gain strategic advantage over rivals and even allies.But U.S. officials have gone on red alert out of fear that the current hacking effort is part of a broader “active measures” campaign to influence the upcoming U.S. election, and hurt Clinton while boosting the chances of her Republican rival, Donald Trump.Why Republicans Too?U.S.
 officials and cybersecurity experts say Russian government hacking of Republicans serves several purposes in this election cycle.One is that it provides Moscow with a deep understanding of the internal workings of the campaigns, their plans and objectives and the key players who wield power and influence in Washington even if the GOP doesn’t take the White House.A more ominous concern is that the information hacked from Republican operatives could be “weaponized” through the strategic leaking of information, either before or after the election.In an interview with NBC News, Rep. Adam Schiff of California, top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said he could not discuss any specific victims identified by U.S. investigators, Republican or Democratic.But, Schiff told NBC News, “The Russians are interested in both political parties.”“They would certainly target Republicans if there is a chance of a Republican becoming president, which obviously there is,” Schiff said.
 “They would also target Republicans that would influence the next president, and they would also target people with the interest in disrupting [the election] or sowing discord.”One prominent Republican, former Bush administration Secretary of State Colin Powell, had his personal emails hacked and released last month via DCLeaks.com.
 Those emails contained biting comments by Powell about both Clinton and her husband, former President Bill Clinton, and Trump.Former Joint Chiefs Chairman Colin Powell tells an audience in the Capitol Rotunda on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, July 23, 2008, about the importance of racial integration in the military that was brought about by President Truman's executive order 60 years ago.J.
 Scott Applewhite / APSchiff said the leaks of Powell’s emails already “have sown additional discord into our political process.
 So there’s obviously a reason for foreign hackers to hack members of both parties.”Schiff said he believes the Russians have an interest in Trump winning the presidency.
 “Whether they will go so far as to interfere in a way that makes it more likely, I think they are limited in their ability to affect the outcome.
 But they can certainly cause a lot of discord and confusion.”Richard Andres, a cybersecurity and national security strategy expert with the U.S. military’s National War College, said Russia has been perfecting its ability to use digital means to manipulate the internal politics –- and elections –- of other countries for more than a decade, especially in Eastern Europe.“These guys have made hacking political parties and their supporters a science,” Andres told NBC News.
 “I’m not sure the U.S. has built up any defenses against this type of thing.”“What we’ve been seeing here in the U.S. so far is mild by comparison to what they do in their own backyard,” Andres said.
 “We haven’t said anything about it and don’t expect to.” Graham was a contender for the GOP presidential nomination.Interviews with Republican campaign and party officials indicated they have been on guard for hacking.Trump himself has previously said he has no idea who is hacking of Democrats.
 But an advisor to the Trump campaign said the campaign’s cybersecurity specialists have been warning since last spring that hackers, likely from Russia, “are being very aggressive and trying to find out whatever they can about both campaigns.”“They are aware that the Russians and others are very eager to see our communications, that there are people out there from other countries that would like to hack into our systems,” the advisor told NBC News.
 “So we are paying close attention to it.”Trump campaign hires are given a briefing in which they are warned about such breaches, and told not to use campaign email for personal communications, the advisor said.In 2015, at least one Trump campaign staff member’s email account was infected with malware and then sent malicious emails to colleagues, according to the advisor, who said that and other concerns prompted the campaign to upgrade its security.Another senior Republican official confirmed that they were aware of widespread targeting of GOP operatives in the current campaign, both at the campaigns and on Capitol Hill.Officials noted that both the McCain and Romney campaigns were hacked in 2008 and 2012 respectively, as was Obama’s –- though authorities attributed at least some of those to the Chinese.“It’s entirely possible that they did it and we just never knew,” said one GOP veteran who worked on a Republican presidential primary campaign.
 “And I remember many times where the campaign server was running slowly and we’d just switch to Gmail or G-chat.
 Maybe it was naïve on my part but I never attributed it to hacking.”Last month, House Homeland Committee Chairman Mike McCaul (R.-Texas) told CNN that the Republican National Committee had been hacked.
 Spicer, the RNC spokesman, was quick to tweet that there had been no known breach “of @gop networks" and McCaul issued a quick retraction.McCaul, however, didn’t retract his broader assertion that he had been told in classified briefings that the Russian hacking campaign targeted Republicans as well as Democrats.“They are not discriminating one party against the other,” McCaul said, adding that the Russians “have hacked into both parties at the national level” and targeted "Republican political operatives.
 "“What they intend to do with that information,” he said, “I don’t know.”In Through the Front DoorThe two Russian hacking groups blamed for the current cyberespionage campaign, dubbed Fancy Bear and Cozy Bear, also have been blamed for breaching other U.S. targets over the past year or two, including the unclassified systems at the White House, State Department and the military’s offices of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.In the current hacking of the political system, they have focused on an indirect approach, according to numerous officials and cybersecurity experts familiar with the hacks.Those sources said Fancy Bear and Cozy Bear –- each tied to a different Russian intelligence agency –- have been specifically targeting the personal emails of individuals through very sophisticated “spearphishing” campaigns where they get someone to click on an email, link or photo purportedly from a trusted source.That introduces malware onto whatever computer, cellphone or other device they’re using, and in many cases, it allows the hackers to breach work email accounts and even work files and databases that contain sensitive information, officials and experts say.After vacuuming up everything from that victim, the hackers “move laterally” through their network of friends and business associates and steal all their information too.“Essentially people are opening their front door and letting them in,” said Toni Gidwani, a former Defense Intelligence Agency official whose ThreatConnect cybersecurity firm has investigated many of the hacks.
 She said these particular spearphishing techniques are a hallmark of the two Russian hacker groups.
 “It’s something they keep coming back to because it works.”Like others, Gidwani said the size and scope of the hacking campaign isn’t known publicly because investigators mostly know about the cases in which information has been leaked.“It’s perfectly possible that … people and organizations are being targeted and breached but that if the adversary doesn’t see the value in leaking it, and holding on to it, we wouldn’t know,” Gidwani said.
 “They could just be waiting for the right time to release it.”Josh MeyerJosh Meyer is a reporter with the NBC News Investigative Unit.
 Meyer is an award-winning national security journalist and author and the McCormick Lecturer in National Security Studies in the the Medill School of Journalism’s Washington program.
 5.
 Politics Bigger Than Disclosed, Includes GOP","seo":"Russia Hack of U.S.
 ","seo":"Hackers have targeted hundreds of key people with \"spearphishing\" attacks on their private email accounts.
 Read headlines covering top national and global stories on crime, politics, business, and more.
 See how the map is changing.
 But that doesn't mean the U.S. response is better.
 See how the map is changing.
 Read headlines covering the presidential debates, polls, results, and more.
 Read breaking headlines covering latest news, politics, crime, and more.
 Read political headlines covering Congress, the White House, the Supreme Court, and more.
 Read headlines covering cyber attacks, top new tech products, tech tips \u0026 more.
 Read headlines covering top national and global stories on crime, politics, business, and more.
 5.
 5.
 5.
 Meyer is an award-winning national security journalist and author and the McCormick Lecturer in National Security Studies in the the Medill School of Journalism’s Washington program.
 The emails appear to reveal contents of Clinton's private Wall Street speeches.
 NBC's Kacie Hunt reports for TODAY.
 ","seo":"Wikileaks released emails on Friday that they claim are from Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman John Podesta.
 The emails appear to reveal contents of Clinton's private Wall Street speeches.
 NBC's Kacie Hunt reports for TODAY.
 “We needed a shift in our dispositions of heart and mind,” he says.
 Meacham also shares that there have been several U.S. presidential elections where the winner received less than 51% of the popular vote.
 In this week’s Sunday Focus, NBC’s Morgan Radford looks at Harris’ past as a public servant and the precedent it sets for the future.
 ","tease":"After Biden’s victory, will Trump concede the election?
 ","social":"After Biden’s victory, will Trump concede the election?
 “I think he’ll (concede) in a way that won’t ever feel like a concession to him, that he’ll acknowledge the results without acknowledging whether he thinks that it was fair and square because that’s just who he is,” Chuck says.
 “This election is far from over,” he said.
 “Beginning Monday, our campaign will start prosecuting our case in court.” NBC’s Kelly O’Donnell reports for Sunday TODAY.
 Biden promised to name a team of scientists and experts to create a plan to confront the coronavirus epidemic.
 Their victory sparked celebrations in the streets across the country.
 NBC’s Geoff Bennett reports for Sunday TODAY.
 That’s according to NBC News interviews with more than two dozen current and former U.S. officials, private sector cybersecurity experts and others familiar with the FBI-led investigation into the hacks.
 It is across the board,” added Alperovitch, who is involved in the investigation.
 But behind the scenes, the FBI and Department of Homeland Security have provided numerous classified briefings in recent months to Capitol Hill staffs about the hacks.
 The briefings described targeting of both parties, primarily by accessing the private email accounts of operatives, one senior Capitol Hill staffer who attended the briefings told NBC News on Thursday.
 ","seo":"In a significant move Friday, the Obama administration publicly accused Russia of being behind email hacks targeting the U.S. election process, claiming the highest level of Russian government was involved.
 Harris, who will become Vice President, has Indian and Jamaican heritage, and the village of Thulasendrapuram is the birthplace of her maternal grandfather.
 They’d marched there to demand constitutional curbs on the king’s powers and a change of government.
 The protests turned into scuffles with police after the rally was disbanded.
 Germany is in the grip of a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.
 Footage shows families being lifted from rooftops in the town of San Cristobal Verapaz after severe flooding from the storm.
 The government believes at least 100 people have died in the town.
 Democrats are bracing for the potential release of still more emails hacked from Democratic sources.
 Sources said emails from individuals associated with the Clinton Foundation were hacked, and may be part of upcoming data dumps from WikiLeaks or DCLeaks.com.
 In June, DCLeaks.com, believed by U.S intelligence to be linked to the Russian government, released hacked emails dating from 2015 of some Republican targets, including staffers for the campaigns of John McCain and Lindsey Graham -- both Putin critics -- and staffers from state parties.
 officials and cybersecurity experts say Russian government hacking of Republicans serves several purposes in this election cycle.
 Those emails contained biting comments by Powell about both Clinton and her husband, former President Bill Clinton, and Trump.
 “Whether they will go so far as to interfere in a way that makes it more likely, I think they are limited in their ability to affect the outcome.
 “We haven’t said anything about it and don’t expect to.” Graham was a contender for the GOP presidential nomination.
 “And I remember many times where the campaign server was running slowly and we’d just switch to Gmail or G-chat.
 Spicer, the RNC spokesman, was quick to tweet that there had been no known breach “of @gop networks\" and McCaul issued a quick retraction.
 She said these particular spearphishing techniques are a hallmark of the two Russian hacker groups.
 Politics Bigger Than Disclosed, Includes GOP","seo":"Russia Hack of U.S.
 Please check your URL or return to","default":"We appreciate the gravity of this situation.
 Please check your URL or return to","globalcitizen":"Something doesn’t look right.
 Please check your URL or return to","knowyourvalue":"Juggling a few things right now!
 Please check your URL or return to","leftfield":"That shot just doesn’t look right.
 Please check your URL or return to","think":"Looks like you got twisted and turned around.
 Please check your URL or return to","today":"We’re having a ’ruff’ time finding this page.
 ":"How can we improve this page?
 ","Images":"Images","Interests":"Interests","Invalid email":"Invalid email","Jan.":"Jan.","July":"July","June":"June","Just now":"Just now","Key Updates":"Key Updates","LIVE COVERAGE":"LIVE COVERAGE","LIVE NOW":"LIVE NOW","Latest":"Latest","Latest Video":"Latest Video","Less":"Less","Live":"Live","Live Blog":"Live Blog","Load More Posts":"Load More Posts","Loading":"Loading","Loading ...":"Loading ...","Local news around you":"Local news around you","MORE":"MORE","March":"March","May":"May","More":"More","NEW":"NEW","Next":"Next","No":"No","Non Broadcast Live Video":"Non Broadcast Live Video","Nope":"Nope","Nov.":"Nov.","Now Playing":"Now Playing","Oct.":"Oct.","Off":"Off","On the show":"On the show","Opinion":"Opinion","Options":"Options","PAID CONTENT":"PAID CONTENT","PHOTOS":"PHOTOS","POST":"POST","POSTS":"POSTS","Paid Content":"Paid Content","Pinned":"Pinned","Play All":"Play All","Prev":"Prev","Price":"Price","Privacy Policy":"Privacy Policy","READ LESS":"READ LESS","READ MORE":"READ MORE","Rate your overall experience":"Rate your overall experience","Read":"Read","Recommended":"Recommended","Result":"Result","SEE":"SEE","SEE ALL":"SEE ALL","SEE NEW":"SEE NEW","SHOP":"SHOP","SHOPPING CONTENT BY STACKCOMMERCE":"SHOPPING CONTENT BY STACKCOMMERCE","SPONSORED":"SPONSORED","SUBSCRIBE":"SUBSCRIBE","Search":"Search","See All":"See All","See All From The Show":"See All From The Show","See local affiliates":"See local affiliates","See story":"See story","Sept.":"Sept.","Share this":"Share this","Sign Up":"Sign Up","Sign Up For Updates":"Sign Up For Updates","Slideshow":"Slideshow","Source":"Source","Spanish":"Spanish","Sponsored By":"Sponsored By","Submit":"Submit","Tap to Unmute":"Tap to Unmute","Terms of Service":"Terms of Service","The page design helps me find other stories I’m interested in":"The page design helps me find other stories I’m interested in","The page design helps me find other videos I’m interested in":"The page design helps me find other videos I’m interested in","The page design helps me find the content I’m interested in":"The page design helps me find the content I’m interested in","The page design helps me understand the news":"The page design helps me understand the news","The page design makes the article easy to read":"The page design makes the article easy to read","The page design makes the video easy to watch":"The page design makes the video easy to watch","This content was paid for by an advertiser and created by the NBC News Brand Studio.
 The NBC News editorial organization was not involved in its creation or production.
 This content represents the views and opinions of the advertiser, who is responsible for all of the material contained therein.
 Links are not endorsements by NBC News.
 ":"This content was paid for by an advertiser and created by the NBC News Brand Studio.
 The NBC News editorial organization was not involved in its creation or production.
 This content represents the views and opinions of the advertiser, who is responsible for all of the material contained therein.
 Links are not endorsements by NBC News.
 ","This site is protected by recaptcha":"This site is protected by recaptcha","Top Moments":"Top Moments","Top Stories":"Top Stories","Trending":"Trending","Trending Gift Guides":"Trending Gift Guides","UP NEXT":"UP NEXT","Updated":"Updated","VIEW":"VIEW","Videos":"Videos","View the story on Storify":"View the story on Storify","View this graphic on":"View this graphic on","Want a response?
 ":"Want a response?
 ","Watch":"Watch","Watch More":"Watch More","We apologize, this video has expired.
 ":"We apologize, this video has expired.
 ","We apologize, we were unable to find your local news.
 Please try another location.
 ":"We apologize, we were unable to find your local news.
 Please try another location.
 ","What\u0026apos;s this?
 ":"What\u0026apos;s this?
 ","What's this?
 ":"What's this?
 ","Who":"Who","Yea":"Yea","Yes":"Yes","You have been successfully added to our newsletter":"You have been successfully added to our newsletter","Your Email Address":"Your Email Address","Your Video Begins in":"Your Video Begins in","Zip code here":"Zip code here","copied!
