The WIC Check Transaction  
Page 2 of 5 MUST politely ask to see it.  12.  
When you receive the WIC check, what™s the first thing you™re going to look for? 
13.  
The correct dates. It must be used between the first day and the last day printed on the 
food instrument.  That includes the first and last day.  14.  This one can be used any day between August 9th and September 9th. This includes August 9th and September 9th. 15.  
As long as the dates are good, you can start ringing up the items. Look at the WIC checks 
and be sure that each item is listed before you scan it.In some stores, the scanner 
automatically verifies each item as WIC approved.   16.  
But, you know computers. They™re great when they work. But they can be wrong, too. 

17.  
That™s why it™s always a good idea to keep the WIC Program Booklet handy. That way you 
can check any items you™re not sure about in the approved foods section.  18.  
WIC customers have their own copy of the food 
list.  It™s very specific in showing what foods can and cannot be purchased. 19.  
All registers must also have a copy.  

20.  
The proper amounts are important, too. The WIC nutritionist has prescribed a specific 
amount for that client–to ensure that their nutritional needs are met. 21.  
WIC customers must buy products in the quantities, size and form listed on the WIC check.   

22.  
This means you™ll have to check item by item.  Here you see 36 ounces of cereal. This 
means that the customer cannot buy more than 36 oz of an approved cereal.  23.  
The smallest size box allowed is 9 oz and this customer has three 12-ounce sizes. 12 plus 
12 plus 12 is 36. So, you™re OK. 24.  
Sometimes the WIC checks will show a range: say 14 to 16 oz cans of canned beans  

25.  
Here the customer may choose four cans of beans with the can being anywhere between 
14 and 16 oz in size.   26.  
As for milk, they must buy 
the least expensive brand available.  27.  
If the least expensive brand Œ usually a store brand - is out of stock, they™re allowed to get 
the next least expensive brand available. 28.  
When a customer is buying milk, compare the 
type of milk with what™s listed on the food instrument.   29.  
If it says ﬁwhole milkﬂ the customer can only buy whole milk.  

30.  
If it states skim, ½%, 1% or 2% milk the customer can 
never buy whole milk. They get their choice of one of the types listed. 31.  
Customers should be buying everything listed, 
but if a customer doesn™t want an item, they don™t have to buy it.   The WIC Check Transaction  
Page 3 of 5 32.  
Now, we™re ready to write in the total of the purchase. 33.  
The cashier writes the total cost of the WIC-approved foods on the WIC check. Always use black ink. No other colors like red, purple or pink. And no pencil. 34.  
Then the customer signs it, again in black ink, to verify that she got the food and the total is correct. 35.  
If the customer hands you one that™s already been signed before you™ve entered the price have the client resign the check again to the left of the signature line. 36.  
Never ask the customer to sign a WIC check before you have entered the amount.  37.  
The customer is always given a receipt, which is very important in case there™s a problem.  38.  
If a customer has multiple WIC checks, they should separate the food items for each one.  Handle each WIC check and purchase completely before going on to the next one. 39.  
Some of your newer customers may forget to separate the items and just hand you all of the WIC check™s at once. You might have to remind them to separate them by check.   Always do it politely.  
It all comes down to this: give your WIC customers the same excellent service you give all 

your customers and they™ll keep coming back. 
 40.  
And you™re done. You™ve successfully completed a WIC transaction.  Trouble Shooting  Page 4 of 5 41.  Trouble Shooting 42.  
Most of the time a WIC transaction runs smoothly, but there are a few things that can complicate the process. 43.  Date Confusion 44.  
This check can be used on any day between August 9th and September 9th. 
Including August 9th and September 9th. 45.  
What if today is August 8th? 
46.  
WIC customers usually get a set of three months worth of WIC checks at one time There can be as 
many as three checks for each month Œ for each family client. 

And that means that a mother can have as many as nine WIC checks for herself and nine for each 
child. 47.  
So, you can see why it can be easy to get confused. So be sure to always check the dates.  
48.  Size Matching 49.  
 The WIC check says 1 gallon skim, ½%, 1% or 2% Milk 

50.  
This customer has two half-gallons of whole milk, which totals one gallon. 
But that™s not acceptable Œ for two reasons.  51.  
The WIC check states one gallon of skim, low or reduced fat milk, so two half-gallons of whole milk 
are not acceptable And whole milk is not stated on the WIC check.  The client must select one of 
the types listed on the WIC check.  52.  
Remember, the customer must buy the size, type and quantity stated on the food instrument.   

53.  
Also, the customer should always select the 
least expensive brand of milk available on your shelf. If the least expensive brand Œ usually a store brand - is out of stock, the customer is allowed to get the next least expensive brand available.   54.  Out of stock items 
55.  
Occasionally, stores may run out of a particular food item.  This doesn™t happen very often because 
there are usually plenty of WIC items in stock. 
But if it does happen, we do not issue rain checks. The customer must pick an alternate from the list. 56.  
One exception is Baby Formula. It must always be bought in the exact brand, size and quantity 
specified on the food instrument.   57.  
From time to time, changes may happen on WIC approved foods that are added to the WIC 
Program. Your manager should keep you informed about these changes.  
Basically remember, if a particular brand is printed in the WIC Program Booklet, approved foods 
section, that brand must be purchased. 58.  CORRECTING MISTAKES  Trouble Shooting  Page 5 of 5 59.  
If you™ve already written in the total.  In ink, and the numbers must be readable, of course. Just draw one line through the wrong amount and write the correct amount in the box. 
Then initial it outside the box to show that it was corrected.  Remember, you must always have the 
customer sign the food instrument after the total has been entered. 60.  REFUNDS AND REPLACEMENTS 61.  
If a food is spoiled, it™s OK to get a replacement of the same item.  

62.  
However, no refunds or exchanges for money are allowed. 

63.  
Since formula is specifically prescribed for each infant, the formula on the WIC check is the only 
one a customer can buy. 
Cashiers must always be sure that the formula sold is the same as what is listed on the WIC check.  64.  
If you suspect that a WIC customer is returni
ng foods or formula in exchange for another formula or money, please notify the State WIC Office.  65.  
Always give the customer the benefit of the doubt. Most of the time they make honest mistakes. 
By the same token, you have the right to be treated with respect.  66.  
If a WIC customer is rude to you, you can report it to the Local WIC Office in your county.  Your 
supervisor will have the contact information you need. 67.  
WIC customers are also encouraged to report 
any unpleasant shopping experiences they have to their Local WIC office or the State WIC office. 
If you have a customer who™s confused about what to buy, you may refer them to their Local WIC office.  68.  Non Compliance 69.  
If you do make a mistake on a WIC purchase. For example, allowing a customer to buy more or a 
larger size than specified– 70.  
Your store can be fined for non-compliance. These fines start at $100 and go up. 

71.  
Too many fines and your store can be disqualified from the WIC Program. 

72.  
Being a WIC authorized vendor is a privilege, not a right. There are only a limited number of stores in any area, so it™s important to follow all the rules. 
This is not only good for your store, it™s good for your WIC customers. Making sure they get the best 
foods to keep them healthy. 
And making sure they get the best service to keep them coming back to your store.  
Remember, eventually they™ll stop being on the WIC program and you want to keep them as a customer. 
 