site: media | arena: nfl | pageType: stories |   section: | slug: nfl-wont-let-cowboys-wear-decals-supporting-dallas-police-in-regular-season | sport: football | route: article_single.us |   6-keys: media/spln/nfl/reg/free/stories                CBSSports.com                 247Sports                 MaxPreps                 SportsLine                 Shop                 Play Golf                Stubhub                     William Hill Sportsbook                           CBS Sports Home    Sports HQ    Fantasy    NFL    NCAA FB    MLB    NBA    Golf   Breeders Cup    Champions League   NCAA BB   Soccer   NHL   MMA   WWE   Boxing   NASCAR   NWSL   WNBA   Big3   Tennis   High School   WSOP   Olympics   Women's WC   Shop   PBR    Rugby            Stubhub                Play Golf        Home   Scores   Schedule   Standings   Teams   Stats   Odds   Expert Picks   Players   Injuries   Transactions   Power Rankings   Prisco's Picks   Fantasy   Parlay Pick'em   Football Props   Draft   Mock Drafts   Prospect Rankings   Super Bowl   Pick Six Podcast   CBS All Access   NFL Shop           Stubhub                  Home   Scores   Schedule   Standings   Teams   Stats   Odds   Expert Picks   Players   Injuries   Transactions   Power Rankings   Prisco's Picks   Fantasy   Parlay Pick'em   Football Props   Draft   Mock Drafts   Prospect Rankings   Super Bowl   Pick Six Podcast   CBS All Access   NFL Shop           Stubhub                  Play      Games                      Play Now                   Parlay Pick'em                      Play Now                   Golf Props       View your Leagues             William Hill           Fantasy Football     College Pick'em     Football Pick'em     Parlay Pick'em     Fantasy Baseball     Fantasy Basketball     Fantasy Hockey      See All Sports Games      Watch     24/7 Sports News Network           Watch CBS Sports Network   Watch CBS Sports HQ   TV Shows &amp; Listings   SportsLive   Skratch Golf      Bet       BET AT WILLIAM HILL              BET FOOTBALL                 BET BASKETBALL                 BET BASEBALL                 BET HOCKEY                 BET GOLF                 BET FUTURES                 BET INPLAY            Podcasts              Fantasy Football Today                 Start or Sit (NFC Home Games)              Nothing Personal with David Samson                 Covering the impact of coronavirus on the sports world     Podcasts Home   Fantasy Football Today   NFL Pick Six   Cover 3 College Football   Eye On College Basketball   Morning Kombat   The First Cut with Kyle Porter             Log In      My Teams            Organize / See All Teams Help   Account Settings Log Out              2020 NFL Schedule : Team by Team   SportsLine: Team-By-Team Betting Guide                 NFL won't let Cowboys wear decals supporting Dallas police in regular season The 'Arm in Arm' decals they wore in training camp were rejected by the league for the regular season                       By            Will Brinson            Aug 11, 2016              at          12:28 pm ET2 min read                                                      The Dallas Cowboys asked the NFL if the team could wear decals honoring the fallen members of the Dallas Police Department and the NFL, unsurprisingly, said no.
 When training camp opened in Oxnard, Calif., earlier this offseason, the Cowboys unveiled "Arm in Arm" helmet decals, designed to pay tribute to the men who lost their lives during the downtown Dallas shooting in July, while also symbolically representing the Cowboys support of the community.Naturally, the NFL won't let them wear the decals during the regular season.
 "Everyone has to be uniform with the league and the other 31 teams," Jerry Jones said Wednesday.
 "We respect their decision.
 "It's pretty easy to get upset about the NFL over this.
 Brandon Marshall, then with the Bears, was fined more than $10,000 for wearing green shoes to raise awareness for mental-health issues.
 Steelers running back DeAngelo Williams wanted to wear pink all season long to honor his mother, who died of breast cancer.
 The NFL told him no.
 "There are tons of things out there that need to be recognized.
 Once you open that Pandora's box, how do you ever stop?"
 Cowboys owner Jerry Jones   But there is, as Jones pointed out, a "Pandora's box" issue at hand.
 If you let the Cowboys support fallen police officers, you've probably got to let Williams wear pink all season.
 And if you let him wear pink all season, you probably can't stop [Player X] from wearing [color] for [cause].
 "There are so many wonderful, wonderful causes, the league has to be careful," Jones said earlier in camp about the possibility of wearing the decal in games.
 "If you allow one, then what do you do about every team that has a great reason to have something on their helmets?
 "There are tons of things out there that need to be recognized.
 Once you open that Pandora's box, how do you ever stop?
 "The NFL will allow teams to wear patches honoring people who were involved with the team -- the Patriots wore patches honoring Robert Kraft's late wife, Myra, during the 2011 season -- but is pretty strict with its stance about what is allowed in terms of charitable support.
 The Lions wore a patch to honor their late owner William Clay Ford during the 2014 season.
 If the league won't change because of the Cowboys or because of Williams' mom (despite already having an entire month dedicated to breast cancer support), don't expect it to flinch on anything moving forward.
 Pick Six Newsletter Get the day's big stories + fun stuff you love like mock drafts, picks and power rankings.
 Will Brinson                             4 min read                              Agent's Take: Trades that should've been                 Joel Corry                             6 min read                              La Canfora's picks: Seahawks roll Bills                 Jason La Canfora                             2 min read                              Why scoring is on record pace, notes                 Jonathan Jones                             12 min read                              Week 9 injuries: McCaffrey back, Jacobs questionable                 Jordan Dajani                             10 min read                              Cowboys name starting quarterback vs. Steelers                 Patrik Walker                             4 min read                              Titans' Clowney could miss time with knee injury                 Patrik Walker                             2 min read                              Late TD in GB-SF results in major bad beat for bettors                 Bryan DeArdo                             1 min read                                 Help   About Us   Careers   Advertise   Site Map   Newsletters   Mobile Apps   Ad Choice   Closed Captioning   Privacy   Terms   Mobile User Agreement   CA Privacy/Info We Collect   Do Not Sell My Personal Information          SportsLine.com      © 2004-2020 CBS Interactive.
 All Rights Reserved.
 CBS Sports is a registered trademark of CBS Broadcasting Inc. Commissioner.com is a registered trademark of CBS Interactive Inc.
 Images by Getty Images and US Presswire
