I’m sorry for all the ignorance and privilege your team come across each day.
 Thanks for everything you and your team do.
 Unsung heroes!
 ❤️level 2Oakland 28 points · 7 months agoAre people entitled or have they been trained by big companies to expect extra service and convenience?A bit of both honestly.Thank you retail, grocers, farmers, and the lot of you.
 We need you.Continue this thread level 126 points · 7 months agoPeople were being extra shitty in Whole Foods last trip.
 I was staying back, waiting for people to clear space in produce, and a guy literally shoulders me out of the way because he cannot wait another minute for a plastic bag.People were in general acting if they were FAR too important to pay any attention to where I am; I'm jumping out of their way, having to back up and go around because they're bearing down on me like I don't exist.I finally twigged after someone asked me, "do you know where the tuna is?"
 And I looked up for the sign then pointed it out -- we were standing at the aisle -- then someone else asked me, "do you have any beans?"
 And I figured it out.I was wearing a green Eddie Bauer vest over my jacket.Everyone was assuming I was an employee.level 220 points · 7 months agoAt least in San Francisco the Whole Foods clientele has been the worst by far during shelter in place.
 This is in comparison to Safeway and Trader Joe’s.
 Safeway has been overwhelmingly respectful of keeping a distance and Trader Joe’s customers have been nearly perfect.
 My local corner store is also excellent about this.
 So I’ve stopped going to Whole Foods.Purely conjecture, I think the differences may be the professional shoppers at Whole Foods which I don’t think the others have.Continue this thread level 25 points · 7 months agoI've never been to Whole Foods, but I feel like that's what to expect at a Whole Foods lollevel 140 points · 7 months agoShared the above with someone who manages a grocery store near me.
 Here was the reply I rec'd -It's taxing on the soul too.
 All anyone ever talks about when they come in, is their feelings and perspective surround the virus.
 It gets heavy.And then there are the others that come in and talk about how stupid everything is and how they don't understand why people won't just get over it.
 These customers are truly the exhausting ones.Then there's the threats on me because I won't let them come in if they're sick.
 I can't risk it.
 It's literally the lives of the elderly in the community we serve.
 Even if it isn't intentionally my fault if some interaction in the grocery led to their illness, or death, my heart literally can't handle it.And then there's my employees and their lives.
 Heavy.level 2SF Native14 points · 7 months agoWhy the fuck are so many people chatting up the grocery store staff all the time?
 From the moment I walk into a grocery store to the moment I leave it I don't say a word to anybody other than thanking the cashier when I leave.If you wanna talk to somebody about your feelings hire a fucking therapist.
 Don't unload on the poor guy stocking the shelves at your local Safeway.Continue this thread level 123 points · 7 months agoIs there anything else customers can do to ease the situation?
 Only getvwhat us needed.Continue this thread level 110 points · 7 months agoYou and your team are both essential and significantly appreciated by the silent majority.
 I am so sorry for any abuse your team is enduring right now.
 Most of us know and appreciate the lengths you are going to provide us with the things we need to live; please don’t let a vocal few get to you.level 14 points · 7 months agoAll the stores around me aren't allowing reuseable bags, is this not the case in most palces?level 25 points · 7 months agoRight.
 Where is this guy working?
 That company needs to get with the program.level 16 points · 7 months agoThank you and every grocery store for still being open.
 It pisses me off that people are causing commotion and blaming workers when they're risking their lives and trying to make both our ends meet (their paycheck and our mouths).level 153 points · 7 months agofind the neighbor or friend that bought enough for a year ... there are hundreds of themThat's nonsense.
 The vast majority of people are not buying more than they need.See here for a facts based explanation for why there's a shortage of toilet paper.level 248 points · 7 months agoInteresting, thanks!In short, the toilet paper industry is split into two, largely separate markets: commercial and consumer.
 The pandemic has shifted the lion’s share of demand to the latter.
 People actually do need to buy significantly more toilet paper during the pandemic — not because they’re making more trips to the bathroom, but because they’re making more of them at home.
 With some 75% of the U.S. population under stay-at-home orders, Americans are no longer using the restrooms at their workplace, in schools, at restaurants, at hotels, or in airports.Continue this thread level 29 points · 7 months agoI was thinking this.
 There actually is significantly more demand for the home consumer stuff.
 Same thing is happening for foods primarily bought by large cafeterias and restaurants (I've read about examples about romaine lettuce and lobster).I've seen commercial restaurant distributors starting to sell direct to consumer.
 I wonder if other commercial distributors (uline, grainger, etc) might also market to consumers, but people probably don't want a pallet of massive rolls of toilet paper!Continue this thread level 222 points · 7 months agoFirst of all, that article doesn't say hoarding isn't happening.
 It's just providing an additional cause.Second of all, they claim the problem is that commercial TP can't go to consumer markets.
 So what, these mills and warehouses, and transporters are just sitting on their thumbs waiting for the country to start back up?
 I'm pretty sure every single link in that chain would be happy to adjust their business model.Thirdly, reddit was posting TP shortage photos long before any US shelter in place orders were initiated.View Entire Discussion (103 Comments)More posts from the bayarea communityContinue browsing in r/bayarear/bayareaAll the best things to do, to see, and discuss in the: **San Francisco Bay Area**203kMembers915OnlineCreated Jul 11, 2008JoinhelpReddit AppReddit coinsReddit premiumReddit giftsaboutcareerspressadvertiseblogTermsContent policyPrivacy policyMod policyReddit Inc © 2020.
 By using our Services or clicking I agree, you agree to our use of cookies.
 I’m sorry for all the ignorance and privilege your team come across each day.
 Thanks for everything you and your team do.
 Unsung heroes!
 We need you.
 I was staying back, waiting for people to clear space in produce, and a guy literally shoulders me out of the way because he cannot wait another minute for a plastic bag.
 This is in comparison to Safeway and Trader Joe’s.
 Safeway has been overwhelmingly respectful of keeping a distance and Trader Joe’s customers have been nearly perfect.
 My local corner store is also excellent about this.
 So I’ve stopped going to Whole Foods.
 All anyone ever talks about when they come in, is their feelings and perspective surround the virus.
 It gets heavy.
 These customers are truly the exhausting ones.
 I can't risk it.
 It's literally the lives of the elderly in the community we serve.
 Even if it isn't intentionally my fault if some interaction in the grocery led to their illness, or death, my heart literally can't handle it.
 Heavy.
 From the moment I walk into a grocery store to the moment I leave it I don't say a word to anybody other than thanking the cashier when I leave.
 Don't unload on the poor guy stocking the shelves at your local Safeway.
 I wear a mask and do not bring reusable bags.
 Only getvwhat us needed.
 I am so sorry for any abuse your team is enduring right now.
 Most of us know and appreciate the lengths you are going to provide us with the things we need to live; please don’t let a vocal few get to you.
 Where is this guy working?
 That company needs to get with the program.
 It pisses me off that people are causing commotion and blaming workers when they're risking their lives and trying to make both our ends meet (their paycheck and our mouths).
 The vast majority of people are not buying more than they need.
 The pandemic has shifted the lion’s share of demand to the latter.
 People actually do need to buy significantly more toilet paper during the pandemic — not because they’re making more trips to the bathroom, but because they’re making more of them at home.
 With some 75% of the U.S. population under stay-at-home orders, Americans are no longer using the restrooms at their workplace, in schools, at restaurants, at hotels, or in airports.
 There actually is significantly more demand for the home consumer stuff.
 Same thing is happening for foods primarily bought by large cafeterias and restaurants (I've read about examples about romaine lettuce and lobster).
 I wonder if other commercial distributors (uline, grainger, etc) might also market to consumers, but people probably don't want a pallet of massive rolls of toilet paper!
 It's just providing an additional cause.
 So what, these mills and warehouses, and transporters are just sitting on their thumbs waiting for the country to start back up?
 I'm pretty sure every single link in that chain would be happy to adjust their business model.
 Numbers check out.
 People weren't sheltering in place and businesses were open as usual when shelves first ran dry.
 I've seen some stores that were complete chaos and others (Molly Stone should be a case study in what to do right) are orderly and calm, and help alleviate panic.
 I think the management does make a difference, but no doubt, people aren't thinking about the hell check out workers have gone through.
 They were quick to ask for social distancing in the store, set consistent hours (I'm looking at you Berkeley Bowl), started shutting down self-service access to the bulk foods early on, and were quick to stop offering samples, offering up maps and separate lines for Instacart serfs, etc.
 They're doing a great job at keeping things stocked.
 Some stuff is gone, but I still saw a bunch of eggs and milk on the shelves.
 I don't know how other cities are handling the ban (if they're ignoring it or not), but my mom (the healthiest person in our family, and only one who's been doing the shopping) hasn't been able to use ours since last week.
 Applaud the mail carriers and bus drivers when walking the dog too.
 Massive ego boost.
 One guy even pulled out his grocery list and stared at it for a minute blocking the entrance to most of the store aisles.
 Answer is probably no, though.
 They'd rather sell it and make a profit.
 It’s basically a guaranteed to get sick jar.
 Cash is dirty AF.
 Plus grocery store workers are not allowed to accept tips.
 Instead donate to your local Covid 19 relief fund.
 We need you!
 Your job is so much more important than 90% of all other jobs here!
 Depends on each store but they get restocked at some point ... Safeway is usually each morning for example.
 Things do go fast though.
 So the answer is always no.
 Maybe bc TJs owns their entire supply line and only stocks their own products?
 Because outside of tp they aren’t restricting how much people can buy of anything.
 Whereas when I went into a Safeway earlier this week they still had lots of entire sections empty.
 or have you just not received a shipment in like, a month?
 I think it's kind of insane that California hasn't gotten rid of the restriction to buy alcohol at self checkout, I'm sure it's the main reason a lot of people are even using the cashier line instead of just doing it themselves, which I think would be vastly safer for everybody.
 There is one attendant for up to 12 registers.
 It’s easy for someone underage or looking to steal to not scan an item.
 You can order alcohol delivery through Postmates if you want contact free.
 I mean I can't imagine all the shit that usually doesn't sell well is flying off the shelf all of a sudden.
 ","description":"Be excellent to each other!
 We are your neighbors, co-workers, and friends.
 ","description":"No racism, sexism, homophobia, religious slurs, or otherwise hateful or mean-spirited comments.
