document.body.className + ' js-enabled' : 'js-enabled');   Skip to main content        Tell us whether you accept cookies We use cookies to collect information about how you use GOV.UK.
 We use this information to make the website work as well as possible and improve government services.
 Accept all cookies   Set cookie preferences       You’ve accepted all cookies.
 You can change your cookie settings at any time.
 Hide                     GOV.UK         Show or hide search      Search on GOV.UK      Search                         Coronavirus (COVID-19)         National restrictions in England from 5 November              The UK and EU transition         Take action now for new rules in 2021             Home   Visas and immigration   What you need to do           Pay for UK healthcare as part of your immigration application    Skip to contents of guide      Contents    Overview   Who needs to pay      How much you have to pay      Pay the healthcare surcharge   Refunds           How much you have to pay     You’ll have to pay:  £470 per year for a student or Tier 5 (Youth Mobility Scheme) visa, for example £940 for a 2-year visa £470 per year for visa and immigration applicants who are under the age of 18 at time of application £624 per year for all other visa and immigration applications, for example £3,120 for a 5-year visa  Dependants usually need to pay the same amount as you.
 The exact amount you have to pay depends on how much leave you’re granted.
 Calculate how much you’ll have to pay before you apply.
 You’ll pay half of the yearly amount if your application includes part of a year that is less than 6 months.
 You’ll pay for a whole year if your application includes part of a year that is more than 6 months.
 You’ll automatically get a partial refund if you paid the healthcare surcharge for more years than you were granted leave.
 When you must pay If you apply for a visa online, you pay the surcharge as part of the application.
 If you apply for a visa by post, you must pay the surcharge online before you send your application.
 You’ll need to include your IHS reference number on the application form.
 If you do not pay You’ll get an email from UK Visas and Immigration if you do not pay the surcharge (or do not pay enough) as part of your visa or immigration application.
 Check your junk folder if you cannot see the email in your inbox.
 Once you get the email, you must pay the surcharge within:  10 working days if you’re inside the UK 7 working days if you’re outside the UK   Your visa or immigration application will be turned down if you do not pay the full amount in this time.
 Previous      : Who needs to pay              Next      : Pay the healthcare surcharge      Print entire guide         Related content      Applying for a visa to come to the UK            Explore the topic  EU, EEA and Commonwealth citizens Family in the UK Study in the UK What you need to do Work in the UK           Is this page useful?
 Maybe         Yes this page is useful        No this page is not useful       Thank you for your feedback       There is something wrong with this page        Close       Help us improve GOV.UK Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
 What were you doing?
 What went wrong?
 Send       Close        Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
 We’ll send you a link to a feedback form.
 It will take only 2 minutes to fill in.
 Don’t worry we won’t send you spam or share your email address with anyone.
 \n\n \n The exact amount you have to pay depends on how much leave you’re granted.
 Calculate how much you’ll have to pay before you apply.
 \n \n\n You’ll pay half of the yearly amount if your application includes part of a year that is less than 6 months.
 \n\n You’ll pay for a whole year if your application includes part of a year that is more than 6 months.
 \n\n \n You’ll automatically get a partial refund if you paid the healthcare surcharge for more years than you were granted leave.
 \n \n\n When you must pay \n\n If you apply for a visa online, you pay the surcharge as part of the application.
 \n\n If you apply for a visa by post, you must pay the surcharge online before you send your application.
 You’ll need to include your IHS reference number on the application form.
 \n\n If you do not pay \n\n You’ll get an email from UK Visas and Immigration if you do not pay the surcharge (or do not pay enough) as part of your visa or immigration application.
 \n\n \n Check your junk folder if you cannot see the email in your inbox.
 \n \n\n Once you get the email, you must pay the surcharge within: \n\n \n 10 working days if you’re inside the UK \n 7 working days if you’re outside the UK \n \n\n \n Your visa or immigration application will be turned down if you do not pay the full amount in this time.
