The 1601 Elizabethan Poor Law Marjie Bloy, Ph.
 D., Senior Research Fellow, the Victorian Web   [Victorian Web Home —&gt;  Political History —&gt; Social History —&gt; Economics —&gt; Race and Class —&gt; Workhouses and the Poor law]   Before the Reformation, it was considered to be a religious duty for all Christians   to undertake the seven corporal works of mercy.
 These were deeds aimed at relieving   bodily distress: in accordance with the teaching of Jesus (Matthew 25 vv.
 32-46)   people were to   feed the hungry  give drink to the thirsty  welcome the stranger clothe the naked  visit the sick visit the prisoner  bury the dead  After the Reformation and the establishment of the Church   of England, many of the old values and moral expectations disappeared so   it became necessary to regulate the relief of poverty by law.
 During the reign   of Elizabeth I, a spate of legislation was passed to deal with the increasing   problem of raising and administering poor relief.
 1552 —   Parish registers of the poor were introduced so that there    was an official record of those who fell into the category of 'poor'  1563 —   Justices of the Peace were authorised and empowered to raise    compulsory funds for the relief of the poor and, for the first time, the    poor were put into different categories     those who would work but could not: these were the able-bodied     or deserving poor.
 They were to be given help either through outdoor     relief or by being given work in return for a wage.
 those who could work but would not: these were the idle poor.
 They were to be whipped through the streets, publicly, until they learned     the error of their ways.
 those who were too old/ill/young to work: these were the impotent     or deserving poor.
 They were to be looked after in almshouses, hospitals,     orphanages or poor houses.
 Orphans and children of the poor were to     be given a trade apprenticeship so that they would have a trade to pursue     when they grew up.
 1572 —   the first compulsory local poor law tax was imposed making    the alleviation of poverty a local responsibility 1576 —    the idea of a deterrent workhouse was first suggested although    nothing was done at this point 1597 —    Justices of the Peace once more were authorised and empowered    to raise compulsory funds for the relief of the poor and the post of 'Overseer    of the Poor' was created.
 The position continued after the 1834 Poor    Law Amendment Act 1601 —   the 'Elizabethan Poor Law' was passed Provisions of the Elizabethan Poor Law of 1601  It [43 Eliz I Cap.
 2], consolidated all the previous legislation into one massive law and    made provision for  a compulsory poor rate to be levied on every parish the creation of 'Overseers' of relief the 'setting the poor on work' the collection of a poor relief rate from property owners  The law required each parish to elect two Overseers of the Poor every Easter:   those who were elected were unpaid and often were unwilling appointees who acted   under the supervision of the JPs.
 However, the means of poor relief did provide   a way of controlling the 'lower orders' and reinforced a sense of social hierarchy.
 The Elizabethan Poor Law were appropriate for the society of the time.
 The duties of the Overseers were to  work out how much money would be needed for the relief of the poor and set   the poor rate accordingly collect the poor rate from property owners relieve the poor by dispensing either food or money supervise the parish poor-house  Two types of relief were available Outdoor relief: the poor would be left in their own homes and would be given either a 'dole' of money on which to live or be given relief in kind - clothes and food for example.
 This was the norm.
 Indoor relief:  the poor would be taken into the local almshouse the ill would be admitted to the hospital orphans were taken into the orphanage  the idle poor would be taken into the poor-house or workhouse where    they would be set to work  Part of the 1601 Law said that poor parents and children were responsible for   each other, so elderly parents were expected to live with their children for   example.
 However, everyone in need was looked after at the expense of the parish,   which was the basic unit of poor law administration.
 There were 15,000   parishes throughout England and Wales, each based on a parish church.
 However,   no mechanism was introduced to enforce any of the measures stated by the 1601   Act and the operation of the poor law was inconsistent.
 The legislation did   not set down any administrative standards so parishes were at liberty to interpret   the law in any way they wished.
 Some towns, such as Bristol, Exeter and Liverpool, obtained local   by-laws that established corporations of the poor: their responsibilities extended   over several of the urban parishes within their jurisdiction.
 The Elizabethan legislation was intended to help the 'settled' poor who found   themselves out of work (for example) because of illness, or during a hard winter   or a trade depression.
 It was assumed that these people would accept whatever   work or relief the parish offered, whether that was indoor or outdoor relief.
 Neither method of assistance was seen as punitive or harsh.
 It was intended   to deter or deal with the 'sturdy beggars' who were roaming the roads, robbing   travellers and generally posing a threat to civil order.
 The increase in the   numbers of beggars was probably the historical background to the nursery rhyme  Hark!
 Hark!
 The dogs do bark!
 The beggars are coming to town:  Some in rags, some in tags  And one in a velvet gown The first adaptation of the 1601 Act came in 1607 and provided for the setting   up of Houses of Correction in each county.
 Here, work was provided for the unemployed   at local rates of pay; work could be forced on the idle and on vagabonds.
 The   Houses of Correction were not part of the Elizabethan system of poor relief   and were totally separate from the parish poor houses because the law made a   clear separation between the settled and 'wandering' poor.
 The 1601 Elizabethan Poor Law continued with further adaptations — for example   the 1662 Settlement Act, Gilbert's   Act (1782) and the Speenhamland system of 1795   — until the passing of the 1834 Poor Law Amendment   Act and formed the basis of poor relief throughout the country for over   two centuries.
 It was a fair and equitable system run for and administered by   local people at a time when the population was small enough for everyone to   know everyone else and his/her circumstances.
 This meant that the idle poor   were known as such and would be given short shrift at the hands of the Overseers   of the poor.
 One of the later complaints about the 1601 Act was that the basis of the law   was that it rated land and buildings but not personal or movable wealth.
 Consequently   it benefited the industrial and commercial groups in society who did not fall   within the parameters of the legislation and so did not pay into the poor rates   unless they also happened to own landed property.
 Victorian  Web      Political  History      The Poor  Law   Last modified   12 November 2002
