HomeU.S.
 PoliticsMedia &amp; NewsSocial TrendsReligionInternet &amp; TechScienceHispanicsGlobalMethods Blog About Follow My Account DONATE      Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World   About Follow  Donate                                    HomeU.S.
 As President Donald Trump and lawmakers on Capitol Hill contemplate policy responses, here are 10 common questions about gun deaths in the U.S., with answers based on data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the FBI and other sources.
 You can also explore key public opinion findings about gun violence and gun policy in the U.S. by reading our recent roundup.
 How many people die from gun-related injuries in the U.S. each year?
 In 2017, the most recent year for which complete data is available, 39,773 people died from gun-related injuries in the U.S., according to the CDC.
 This figure includes gun murders and gun suicides, along with three other, less common types of gun-related deaths tracked by the CDC: those that were unintentional, involved law enforcement or whose circumstances could not be determined.
 It excludes deaths in which gunshot injuries played a contributing, but not principal, role.
 (CDC fatality statistics are based on information contained in death certificates.)
 What share of U.S. gun deaths are murders and what share are suicides?
 Though they tend to get less attention than gun-related murders, suicides have long accounted for the majority of U.S. gun deaths.
 In 2017, six-in-ten gun-related deaths in the U.S. were suicides (23,854), while 37% were murders (14,542), according to the CDC.
 The remainder were unintentional (486), involved law enforcement (553) or had undetermined circumstances (338).
 What share of all murders and suicides in the U.S. involve a gun?
 Three-quarters of all U.S. murders in 2017 – 14,542 out of 19,510 – involved a firearm.
 About half (51%) of all suicides that year – 23,854 out of 47,173 – involved a gun.
 How has the number of U.S. gun deaths changed over time?
 The 39,773 total gun deaths in 2017 were the most since at least 1968, the earliest year for which the CDC has online data.
 This was slightly more than the 39,595 gun deaths recorded in the prior peak year of 1993.
 Both gun murders and gun suicides have gone up in recent years: The number of gun murders rose 32% between 2014 and 2017, while the number of gun suicides rose each year between 2006 and 2017 (a 41% increase overall).
 Gun suicides reached their highest recorded level in 2017.
 But the number of gun murders remained far below the peak in 1993, when there were 18,253 gun homicides – and when overall violent crime levels in the U.S. were much higher than they are today.
 How has the rate of U.S. gun deaths changed over time?
 While 2017 saw the highest total number of gun deaths in the U.S., this statistic does not take into account the nation’s growing population.
 On a per capita basis, there were 12 gun deaths per 100,000 people in 2017 – the highest rate in more than two decades, but still well below the 16.3 gun deaths per 100,000 people in 1974, the highest rate in the CDC’s online database.
 The gun murder and gun suicide rates in the U.S. are both lower today than in the mid-1970s.
 There were 4.6 gun murders per 100,000 people in 2017, far below the 7.2 per 100,000 people recorded in 1974.
 And the rate of gun suicides – 6.9 per 100,000 people in 2017 –  remained below the 7.7 per 100,000 measured in 1977.
 (One caveat when considering the 1970s figures: In the CDC’s database, gun murders and gun suicides between 1968 and 1978 are classified as those caused by “firearms and explosives.” In subsequent years, they are classified as deaths involving “firearms.”) Which states have the highest and lowest gun death rates in the U.S.?
 In 2017, the states with the highest rates of gun-related deaths – counting murders, suicides and all other categories tracked by the CDC – were Alaska (24.5 per 100,000 people), Alabama (22.9), Montana (22.5), Louisiana (21.7), Missouri and Mississippi (both 21.5), and Arkansas (20.3).
 The states with the lowest rates were New Jersey (5.3 per 100,000 people), Connecticut (5.1), Rhode Island (3.9), New York and Massachusetts (both 3.7), and Hawaii (2.5).
 How does the gun death rate in the U.S. compare with other countries?
 The gun death rate in the U.S. is much higher than in most other nations, particularly developed nations.
 But it is still far below the rates in several Latin American nations, according to a study of 195 countries and territories by researchers at the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington.
 The U.S. gun death rate was 10.6 per 100,000 people in 2016, the most recent year in the study, which uses a somewhat different methodology from the CDC.
 That was far higher than in countries such as Canada (2.1 per 100,000) and Australia (1.0), as well as European nations such as France (2.7), Germany (0.9) and Spain (0.6).
 But the rate in the U.S. was much lower than in El Salvador (39.2 per 100,000 people), Venezuela (38.7), Guatemala (32.3), Colombia (25.9) and Honduras (22.5), the study found.
 Overall, the U.S. ranked 20th in its gun fatality rate.
 Sign up for our weekly newsletterOur latest data, delivered Saturdays    How many people are killed in mass shootings in the U.S. every year?
 The FBI collects data on “active shooter incidents,” which it defines as “as one or more individuals actively engaged in killing or attempting to kill people in a populated area.” Using the FBI’s definition, 85 people – excluding the shooters – died in such incidents in 2018.
 The Gun Violence Archive, an online database of gun violence incidents in the U.S., defines mass shootings as incidents in which four or more people – excluding the shooter – are shot or killed.
 Using this definition, 373 people died in these incidents in 2018.
 Regardless of the definition being used, fatalities in mass shooting incidents in the U.S. account for a small fraction of all gun murders that occur nationwide each year.
 How has the number of mass shootings in the U.S. changed over time?
 The same definitional issue that makes it challenging to arrive at an exact number of mass shooting fatalities comes into play when trying to determine the frequency of U.S. mass shootings over time.
 The average number of incidents rose from 6.4 a year in the first seven years of the study to an average of 16.4 a year in the second seven-year period.
 In subsequent studies, the FBI recorded 20 active shooter incidents per year in 2014 and 2015, followed by 20 incidents in 2016, 30 in 2017 and 27 in 2018.
 Which types of firearms are most commonly used in gun murders in the U.S.?
 In 2017, handguns were involved in the majority (64%) of the 10,982 U.S. gun murders and non-negligent manslaughters for which data is available, according to the FBI.
 Rifles – the category that includes many guns that are sometimes referred to as “assault weapons”– were involved in 4%.
 Shotguns were involved in 2%.
 The remainder of gun homicides and non-negligent manslaughters (30%) involved firearms that were classified as “other guns or type not stated.” It’s important to note that the FBI’s statistics do not capture the details on all gun murders in the U.S. each year.
 The FBI’s data is based on information submitted by state and local police departments, and not all agencies participate or provide complete information each year.
 In 2017, nine-in-ten law enforcement agencies submitted data to the FBI.
 Topics Gun PolicyViolence and SocietyDomestic Affairs and Policy    Share this link:            John Gramlich  is a senior writer/editor at Pew Research Center.
 POSTS BIO TWITTER EMAIL           SIGN UP FOR OUR WEEKLY NEWSLETTER    MAKE A FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTION TO SUPPORT OUR WORK DONATE      Related                   7 facts about guns in the U.S.                      Suicides account for most gun deaths                      Gun homicides steady after decline in ’90s; suicide rate edges up                      Why timely, reliable data on mass killings is hard to find                      Bipartisan support for some gun proposals, stark partisan divisions on many others      Popular on pew research In past elections, U.S. trailed most developed countries in voter turnout The Trump-Biden presidential contest An examination of the 2016 electorate, based on validated voters What the 2020 electorate looks like by party, race and ethnicity, age, education and religion Election night marks the end of one phase of campaign 2020 – and the start of another              1615 L St. NW, Suite 800Washington, DC 20036USA  (+1) 202-419-4300 | Main  (+1) 202-857-8562 | Fax  (+1) 202-419-4372 | Media Inquiries        Research Areas   U.S.
 Politics &amp; Policy Journalism &amp; Media Internet &amp; Technology Science &amp; Society Religion &amp; Public Life Hispanic Trends Global Attitudes &amp; Trends Social &amp; Demographic Trends Methods      Follow Us    Email Newsletters  Facebook  Twitter  Tumblr  YouTube  RSS      About Pew Research Center Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan fact tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends shaping the world.
 It conducts public opinion polling, demographic research, media content analysis and other empirical social science research.
 Pew Research Center does not take policy positions.
 It is a subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts.
 Copyright 2020 Pew Research Center About Terms &amp; Conditions Privacy Policy Reprints, Permissions &amp; Use Policy Feedback Careers       				We need to confirm your email address 			   To complete the subscription process, please click the link in the email we just sent you.
 By downloading the American Trends Panel survey data made available on this web site (\u201cData\u201d) you are agreeing to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
 If you do not agree to be bound by these terms, do not download or use the Data.\n\n\tI.\tLicense.\n\tA.\t The Center hereby grants User a non-exclusive, revocable, limited, non-sublicensable, non-transferable, worldwide, royalty-free license to use the Data solely for (1) research, scholarly or academic purposes, or (2) User\u2019s own personal, non-commercial use.
 The foregoing license is personal to User, and you may not share (or otherwise permit access to) the Data to any other individual or entity, including those within your business or organization.
 Further, you may not reproduce, sell, rent, lease, loan, distribute or sublicense, or otherwise transfer any Data, in whole or in part, to any other party, or use the Data to create any derivative work or product for resale, lease or license.
 Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may incorporate limited portions of the Data in scholarly, research or academic publications or for the purposes of news reporting provided that you:\n\t1.\t acknowledge the source of the Data with express reference to the Center in accordance with the following citation:\n\n\t\u201cPew Research Center\u2019s American Trends Panel\u201d\n\n\t2.\tdo not use the Data in any manner that implies, suggests, or could otherwise be perceived as attributing a particular policy or lobbying objective or opinion to the Center, and\n\t3.\tinclude the following disclaimer: \u201cThe opinions expressed herein, including any implications for policy, are those of the author and not of Pew Research Center.\u201d\n\tB.\tUser acknowledges that, as between the parties, the Center is the sole and exclusive owner of all right, title and interest in the Data.
 Except for the limited license granted herein, this Agreement does not give User any right, title or interest in the Data.\n\n\tII.\tDisclaimers and Limitations of Liability.
 THE DATA IS PROVIDED \u201cAS IS\u201d WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARISING BY LAW OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF COMPLETENESS, NON-INFRINGEMENT, ACCURACY, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 THE CENTER EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS, AND SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR, ANY ERRORS, OMISSIONS, INACCURACIES, OR INTERRUPTIONS IN THE DATA.
 USER ASSUMES ALL RISK ASSOCIATED WITH USE OF THE DATA AND AGREES THAT IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CENTER OR ITS AFFILIATES BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, DAMAGES FOR THE INABILITY TO USE EQUIPMENT OR ACCESS DATA, LOSS OF BUSINESS, LOSS OF REVENUE OR PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS, LOSS OF INFORMATION OR DATA, OR OTHER FINANCIAL LOSS, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF, OR INABILITY TO USE, THE DATA BASED ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, BREACH OF CONTRACT, BREACH OF WARRANTY, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF USER HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\n\n\tIII.\tPrivacy, Confidentiality and Security.\n\tA.\tThe Center respects the privacy of individuals.
 The Center has taken measures to ensure that the Data is devoid of information that could be used to identify individuals (including, but not limited to, names, telephone numbers and email addresses) who participated in or who were the subject of any research surveys or studies used to collect the Data (\u201cPersonally Identifying Information\u201d).
 However, in the event that you discover any such Personally Identifying Information in the Data, you shall immediately notify the Center and refrain from using any such Personally Identifying Information.
 User further agrees not to (and will not allow other to) attempt to ascertain the identity of or derive information about individual survey respondents nor link the individual survey records contained in the Data with other data sets for the purpose of identifying individuals.\n\tB.\tUser shall maintain the Data as confidential, and will not use it, in any way nor disclose it to any third party, except as expressly permitted under this Agreement.
 User agrees, at its sole expense, to take reasonable precautions to protect the confidentiality of Data, at least as stringent as User takes to protect User\u2019s own confidential information, but in no case less than reasonable care.
 The foregoing confidentiality obligations shall not apply to any information which: (a) is known to User prior to receipt from the Center other than as a result of User\u2019s breach of any legal obligation; (b) becomes known (independently of disclosure by the Center) to User directly or indirectly from a source having the legal right to disclose such information; (c) is or becomes publicly known, except through a breach of this Agreement by User; or (d) is required to be disclosed by User to comply with applicable laws or governmental regulations, provided that User gives the Center, to the extent practicable, reasonable prior written notice of such disclosure sufficient to permit the Center to contest such disclosure and User takes reasonable and lawful actions to avoid and\/or minimize the extent of such disclosure.
 The parties agree that any breach of the confidentiality obligations of this Agreement by User will result in irreparable damage to the Center for which it will have no adequate remedy at law.
 Therefore, it is agreed that the Center shall be entitled to equitable relief, including an injunction enjoining any such breach by any court of competent jurisdiction.
 Such injunction shall be without prejudice to any other right or remedy to which the Center may be entitled, including but not limited to any damages resulting from User\u2019s breach of the confidentiality obligations under this Agreement.
 Any failure or delay in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall not operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder.\n\tC.\tUser will immediately notify the Center and cooperate with investigations, and provide any information reasonably requested by the Center if User knows of or suspects any breach of security or potential vulnerability of the Data and will promptly remedy such breach.\n\n\tIV.\tIndemnification.
 User shall indemnify and hold harmless the Center, its affiliates and related organizations, and each of their respective officers, directors, employees, legal representatives, agents, successors and assigns, from and against any damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys\u2019 and professionals\u2019 fees and court costs arising out of any third-party claims based on (a) User\u2019s access or use of the Data; (b) any changes made by User to the Data in accordance with this Agreement; or (c) any breach by User of any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.\n\n\tV.\tTermination.
 This license will terminate (1) automatically without notice from the Center if you fail to comply with the provisions of this Agreement or (2) immediately upon written notice (by e-mail or otherwise) from the Center.
 Upon termination of this Agreement, you agree to destroy all copies of any Data, in whole or in part and in any and all media, in your custody and control.\n\n\tVI.\tGoverning law.
 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the District of Columbia.
 You further agree to submit to the jurisdiction and venue of the courts of the District of Columbia for any dispute relating to this Agreement.
