Skip to main content                                                               Home           Information on vaccines                 Vaccines in the UK                 The UK immunisation schedule           Routine childhood vaccines                 6-in-1 Vaccine           Rotavirus Vaccine           MenB Vaccine (Meningococcal B Vaccine)           PCV (Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine)           Hib/MenC Vaccine           MMR Vaccine (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Vaccine)           Nasal Flu Vaccine           Pre-school Booster           HPV Vaccine (Human Papillomavirus Vaccine)           Teenage Booster Vaccine           MenACWY Vaccine                  Routine adult vaccines                 Inactivated Flu Vaccine           Shingles Vaccine           PPV (Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Vaccine)                  Vaccines in pregnancy                 General information about vaccines in pregnancy           Pertussis (whooping cough) vaccine in pregnancy           Flu vaccine in pregnancy                  Vaccines for special groups                 Hepatitis A Vaccine           Hepatitis B Vaccine           BCG Vaccine (TB vaccine)           Chickenpox (Varicella) Vaccine                  General information on vaccines                  Vaccines previously in the UK schedule                 5-in-1 Vaccine           MenC Vaccine                  Vaccination schedules in other countries           New vaccines in development                 General information on vaccines in development           Group B Streptococcus           Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV)                  FAQs about vaccines                  Information on infectious diseases                 Chickenpox (Varicella)           Diphtheria           Hepatitis A           Hepatitis B           Hib disease (Haemophilus influenzae type b)           HPV (Human Papillomavirus)           Influenza (flu)           Measles           Meningococcal disease           Mumps           Pertussis (Whooping Cough)           Pneumococcal disease           Polio (Poliomyelitis)           Rotavirus           Rubella (German Measles)           Shingles           Tetanus           Tuberculosis (TB)           Coronavirus COVID-19                  Vaccine safety and science                 General vaccine safety           Vaccine ingredients                 Gelatine in vaccines                  Vaccine side effects and adverse reactions           Combination vaccines and multiple vaccinations           How vaccines are tested, licensed and monitored           Vaccines and premature babies           Herd immunity (herd protection)           Disease in vaccinated populations           What is a vaccine, and how do vaccines work?
 The individual hepatitis B vaccine can be given at the same time as other vaccines such as the PCV, hepatitis A, MMR, pre-school booster and other travel vaccines.
 The vaccines should be given at a separate site, preferably in a different arm or leg.
 The vaccine does not contain any live viruses, and cannot cause hepatitis B disease.
 Since the disease is so serious, the World Health Organization has said that all babies in the world should be protected by hepatitis B vaccination.
 In the UK all babies are now offered the combination 6-in-1 vaccine which contains hepatitis B vaccine as well as vaccines against five other serious diseases.
 Who should have the vaccine?
 The individual (monovalent) hepatitis B vaccine continues to be given to those in the UK at high risk of hepatitis B disease.
 This includes: Babies born to mothers who have been infected with hepatitis B.
 These babies are exposed to the virus during birth, and should be given the individual hepatitis B vaccine within 24 hours of birth.
 They should be given another dose of the individual vaccine at 4 weeks, and then follow the routine UK schedule (three doses of the 6-in-1 vaccine at 2 months, 3 months and 4 months of age).
 They should have another dose of the individual hepatitis B vaccine at 12 months of age.
 They will also be tested for hepatitis B infection at this time.
 Babies born to women who are thought to be particularly infectious may also be given hepatitis B immunoglobulin at birth.
 This provides immediate, temporary protection while the baby develops their own immunity through vaccination.
 People with chronic (long-term) liver disease or kidney conditions People with blood disorders such as haemophilia, who receive blood products Close family contacts of someone with chronic hepatitis B infection Foster carers and people adopting children from countries where there is a high risk of hepatitis B infection People who inject drugs People who change sexual partners frequently Prisoners People with learning disabilities who live in residential accommodation Healthcare workers and other staff in healthcare settings who may come into direct contact with blood or blood products Workers in other settings who may be at risk of injury from needles, or at risk of being deliberately injured or bitten by patients.
 The hepatitis B vaccine may also be recommended as a travel vaccine for travel to some parts of the world.
 IngredientsThere are several different hepatitis B vaccines used in the UK.
 For full information about ingredients, ask for the Patient Information Leaflet for the vaccine you are offered.
 (See the 6-in-1 vaccine page for information about ingredients for this vaccine.)
 Apart from the active ingredients (the antigens), hepatitis B vaccines contain very small amounts of this added ingredient: Aluminium, which strengthens and lengthens the immune response to the vaccine Hepatitis B vaccines may also contain tiny traces of products used during the manufacturing process: yeast proteins from the yeast used to grow the hepatitis B proteins for the vaccine.
 A tiny quantity may remain in the vaccine, but there is no evidence that this can cause allergic reactions.
 formaldehyde, used to inactivate (kill) the hepatitis B viruses used in the vaccine sodium chloride (salt) and other salts based on sodium and potassium, used as acidity regulators sodium borate (borax), used as an acidity regulator Growing the active ingredients for the vaccines: Hepatitis B vaccines contain one of the proteins from the surface of the hepatitis B virus (HepB surface antigen, or HBsAg).
 This protein is made by inserting the genetic code into yeast cells, which removes any risk of viral DNA getting into the final product.
 This process is called recombinant DNA technology.
 Latex may be used in the packaging of some of the hepatitis B vaccines.
 Side effectsSeveral different makes of hepatitis B vaccine are used in the UK.
 For full information about side effects, ask for the Patient Information Leaflet for the vaccine you are offered.
 Side effects reported for hepatitis B vaccines in general are listed below.
 Very common (affecting more than 1 in 10 people at each dose): Headache Pain, redness and hardness at the injection site Feeling tired or irritable Loss of appetite Common (affecting up to 1 in 10 people at each dose): High temperature (fever) above 37.5 degrees Feeling sick or being sick Diarrhoea or pain in the stomach Swelling, bruising or itching at the injection site Generally feeling unwell Uncommon (affecting up to 1 in 100 people at each dose): Feeling dizzy Aching muscles Flu-like symptoms Rare (affecting up to 1 in 1000 people at each dose): Low blood pressure  Joint pain (arthralgia) Hives, rash or itchiness Pins and needles (paraesthesia) Swollen glands in the neck, armpit or groin (lymphadenopathy) More serious side effects are very rare (affecting fewer than 1 in 10,000 people at each dose).
 You should consult your doctor if you or your child experiences suspected serious side effects after vaccination.
 This is mainly to check that it is the vaccine causing the symptoms, and not some unrelated disease.
 Anaphylaxis As with any vaccine, medicine or food, there is a very small chance of a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis).
 Anaphylaxis is different from less severe allergic reactions because it causes life-threatening breathing and/or circulation problems.
 It is always extremely serious but can be treated with adrenaline.
 Health care workers who give vaccines know how to do this.
 In the UK between 1997 and 2003 there were a total of 130 reports of anaphylaxis following ALL immunisations.
 Around 117 million doses of vaccines were given in the UK during this period.
 This means that the overall rate of anaphylaxis is around 1 in 900,000.
 More information on side effects Reactions listed under ‘possible side effects’ or ‘adverse events’ on vaccine product information sheets may not all be directly linked to the vaccine.
 See Vaccine side effects and adverse reactions for more information on why this is the case.
 If you are concerned about any reactions that occur after vaccination, consult your doctor.
 In the UK you can report suspected vaccine side effects to the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) through the Yellow Card Scheme .
 You can also contact the MHRA to ask for data on Yellow Card reports for individual vaccines .
 See more information on the Yellow Card scheme and monitoring of vaccine safety.
 Page last updated: Monday, September 9, 2019                       Diseases                Hepatitis B   The hepatitis B virus is a major cause of serious, life-threatening liver disease, including... Read more              Other vaccines in this category                Chickenpox (Varicella) Vaccine                 BCG Vaccine (TB vaccine)                 Hepatitis A Vaccine                                  © Oxford Vaccine Group 2020     Centre for Clinical Vaccinology and Tropical Medicine, Churchill Hospital, University of Oxford, OX3 7LE.
 Medical content reviewed by Professor Andrew Pollard.Please click here to contact us if you have comments about the Vaccine Knowledge website.
 We can’t answer all the individual queries we get, but we will use your suggestions and questions to improve the website.
 You should consult your doctor or other healthcare provider if you need specific advice on vaccines for you or your child.
 The Vaccine Knowledge Project is funded by the NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Centre and the Oxford Martin School.
 Freedom of Information | Privacy Policy | Cookies Statement | Copyright Statement | Accessibility Statement
