SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexEnvironmentToday’s PaperEnvironment|Pressure to Improve Water Quality in Chicago RiverAdvertisementContinue reading the main storySupported byContinue reading the main storyChicago News CooperativePressure to Improve Water Quality in Chicago RiverBy Kari LydersenMay 19, 2011In recent days, the federal government and environmental groups have increased the pressure on Chicago’s wastewater treatment agency to stop discharging untreated sewage into the Chicago River during storms and to disinfect the treated sewage that makes up 70 percent of the river’s flow.But the agency, the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago, insists that it does not need to disinfect wastewater, and contends that the enormous Deep Tunnel project scheduled for completion in two decades will solve most of the city’s flooding and sewage overflow problems.On Tuesday, the conservation group American Rivers named the Chicago River one of the “most endangered rivers” in the country, along with rivers at risk from the extraction of coal, natural gas and uranium.
 On May 11, the federal Environmental Protection Agency ordered state regulators to impose stricter water quality standards on the river or else the agency would step in and do it.
 And on May 3, environmental groups filed a lawsuit charging that the wastewater agency regularly violates the federal Clean Water Act.Critics said the agency still considers the river to be an industrial waterway and sewage conduit rather than a venue for strolling, rowing, fishing and even swimming.
 The flow of the Chicago River was reversed a century ago to carry the city’s sewage away from Lake Michigan, and now the agency is banking on another engineering feat— the vast system of underground tunnels and huge reservoirs known as the Deep Tunnel — to hold sewage-laden water when sewers become overwhelmed.Patricia Young, a district spokeswoman, said the Deep Tunnel remains the district’s long-term solution for flood control, and was approved as such by state regulators in 1995.
 The Deep Tunnel has captured more than a trillion gallons of sewage-laden water since being partially opened in 1985, she said, and the district has not violated the Clean Water Act with sewage releases.
 “During the past 122 years we have evolved into an international leader known for designing and implementing innovative engineering projects that improve the quality of our waterways,” Ms. Young said.Water reclamation district officials have said disinfecting wastewater would be costly — $500 million up front and $23 million a year afterward — and would not have public health benefits.
 A report by the district said disinfection does not kill all pathogens and cited two studies showing no ill health effects linked to using the river.
 The Department of Justice and the E.P.A.
 are negotiating a consent decree with the district.
 According to a draft summary, it would require the district to finish the Deep Tunnel’s last stage by its stated goal of 2029 and also hit earlier milestones.But completion of the Deep Tunnel project depends on using huge quarries that would serve as reservoirs for stormwater overflows, and mining companies are still extracting rock to create them.
 The draft consent decree would allow deadlines to be renegotiated if mining proceeds more slowly than expected, which has occurred since the economic crisis has decreased demand for rock from the quarries.ImageSwimmers in Lake Michigan in Evanston last Friday.
 During storms untreated sewage flows into the lake and Chicago River, which one group calls one of the country's “most endangered rivers.”Credit...John Konstantaras/Chicago News CooperativeAnother issue is that the Deep Tunnel will not prevent all untreated sewage releases into the river and Lake Michigan, since overflows often happen because of bottlenecks in the network of smaller pipes that lead to the Deep Tunnel.“You can have infinite storage capacity, but unless you can move enough water quickly enough to the storage area, you’re still going to have problems,” said Joel Brammeier, president of the Alliance for the Great Lakes.The E.P.A.
 and planning and environmental groups say cities should reduce the amount of rainwater flowing into sewer pipes through a range of so-called green infrastructure projects, including permeable pavement that lets water trickle through; sunken medians lined with gravel or plants; green roofs and retention ponds.The draft consent decree requires the water reclamation district to spend $325,000 on green infrastructure, which critics say is far too little.
 The federal government has ordered other cities to spend millions on green drainage methods — $42 million in Cleveland alone.Federal officials and Ms. Young said they could not comment on the consent decree because of ongoing negotiations.Ann Alexander, a senior attorney for the Natural Resources Defense Council, said the district is too fixed on traditional solutions.
 “They don’t believe green infrastructure can really solve problems, they think of it as something dreamed up by hippies,” she said.Ms.
 Young said the agency has a number of green infrastructure projects under way, including one to promote the use of rain barrels.Other cities like Chicago, with aging sewer systems, release untreated sewage into lakes and rivers during storms.
 But Chicago is the only one of the nation’s largest cities that does not constantly disinfect its treated sewage to kill bacteria and viruses.
 Howard Learner, executive director of the Environmental Law and Policy Center, said the effect of public pressure, the state regulatory process and the E.P.A.’s intervention “has been to tighten the noose on the water reclamation district to finally move into the 20th century and clean up its wastewater.”“The Chicago River should be a resource people are proud of,” he said.
 On May 11, the federal Environmental Protection Agency ordered state regulators to impose stricter water quality standards on the river or else the agency would step in and do it.
 And on May 3, environmental groups filed a lawsuit charging that the wastewater agency regularly violates the federal Clean Water Act.
 The flow of the Chicago River was reversed a century ago to carry the city’s sewage away from Lake Michigan, and now the agency is banking on another engineering feat— the vast system of underground tunnels and huge reservoirs known as the Deep Tunnel — to hold sewage-laden water when sewers become overwhelmed.
 The Deep Tunnel has captured more than a trillion gallons of sewage-laden water since being partially opened in 1985, she said, and the district has not violated the Clean Water Act with sewage releases.
 A report by the district said disinfection does not kill all pathogens and cited two studies showing no ill health effects linked to using the river.
 are negotiating a consent decree with the district.
 According to a draft summary, it would require the district to finish the Deep Tunnel’s last stage by its stated goal of 2029 and also hit earlier milestones.
 The draft consent decree would allow deadlines to be renegotiated if mining proceeds more slowly than expected, which has occurred since the economic crisis has decreased demand for rock from the quarries.
 and planning and environmental groups say cities should reduce the amount of rainwater flowing into sewer pipes through a range of so-called green infrastructure projects, including permeable pavement that lets water trickle through; sunken medians lined with gravel or plants; green roofs and retention ponds.
 The federal government has ordered other cities to spend millions on green drainage methods — $42 million in Cleveland alone.
 Young said the agency has a number of green infrastructure projects under way, including one to promote the use of rain barrels.
 But Chicago is the only one of the nation’s largest cities that does not constantly disinfect its treated sewage to kill bacteria and viruses.
