Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                  Sepsis             Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                          Does cancer put me at risk for sepsis?
 Minus     Related Pages        On This Page  When am I more likely to get an infection?How will I know if I have neutropenia?How can I prevent an infection?
 Yes.
 Having cancer and undergoing certain treatments for cancer, such as chemotherapy, can put you at higher risk of developing an infection, and infections can lead to sepsis.
 Chemotherapy works by killing the fastest-growing cells in your body—both good and bad.
 This means that along with killing cancer cells, chemo also kills your infection-fighting white blood cells.
 When am I more likely to get an infection?
 An infection or sepsis can happen at any time.
 However, when your body has very low levels of a certain type of white blood cell (neutrophils) that increases your risk of getting an infection.
 This condition is a common side effect of chemo called neutropenia.
 How will I know if I have neutropenia?
 Your doctor will routinely test for neutropenia by checking the level of your white blood cells.
 How can I prevent an infection?
 Wash your hands often and ask others around you to do the same.
 Avoid crowded places and people who are sick.
 Talk to your doctor about getting a flu shot or other vaccinations.
 Take a bath or shower every day (unless told otherwise).
 Use an unscented lotion to try to keep your skin from getting dry or cracked.
 Clean your teeth and gums with a soft toothbrush.
 Use a mouthwash to prevent mouth sores (if your doctor recommends one).
 Do not share food, drink cups, utensils or other personal items, such as toothbrushes.
 Cook meat and eggs all the way through to kill any germs.
 Carefully wash raw fruits and vegetables.
 Protect your skin from direct contact with pet bodily waste (urine or feces).
 Wash your hands immediately after touching an animal or removing its waste, even after wearing gloves.
 Use gloves for gardening.
 Importance of Preventing InfectionsFor a person with cancer, almost any infection can lead to sepsis, for more information see Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients.
 Fact Sheet   Cancer, Infection and Sepsis Fact Sheet pdf icon[PDF – 2 pages] A potentially deadly combination that every cancer patient should know about Top of Page          
 						Page last reviewed: August 26, 2019 Content source: 	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion (DHQP)         homeSepsis   What is sepsis?
 How can I get ahead of sepsis?
 Does cancer put me at risk for sepsis?
 How is sepsis diagnosed and treated?
 I survived sepsis.
 What’s next?
 What is CDC doing?
 Clinical Information Educational Informationplus icon  Patient Information Healthcare Professional Information Partner Information Share Quiz Información en español       Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:  Email Address  What's this?
 Submit   Related Links Antibiotic/ Antimicrobial Resistance Antibiotic Prescribing and Use in Hospitals and Long-Term care Healthcare-Associated Infections Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) Infections Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients           HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
