Menu     Verywell Health      Re-Emerging Diseases: Why Some Are Making a Comeback      Health A-Z     Arthritis   Type 2 Diabetes   Heart Disease   Digestive Health   Lung Cancer   Multiple Sclerosis   View All           Prevention &amp; Treatment     Vaccines   First Aid   Surgery   Herbal Medicine   Supplements   Healthy Aging   View All           Health Care     Health Insurance   Public Health   Patient Rights   Health Technology   Caregivers &amp; Loved Ones   End of Life Concerns   View All           News     Coronavirus   Health News      Tools &amp; Resources   Thyroid Test Analyzer   Doctor Discussion Guides   Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer   Lipid Test Analyzer   Complete Blood Count (CBC) Analyzer   Healthy Conversations Coach   Renal Test Analyzer     About Us    Editorial Process     Medical Review Board        Search             Search      Clear      GO         More in Infectious Diseases        Coronavirus (COVID-19)      Respiratory Infections      Foodborne Infections      Rare Infections      Travelers' Health      Zika Virus      More Infectious Diseases      View More      Tools &amp; Resources    Thyroid Test Analyzer     Doctor Discussion Guides     Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer     Lipid Test Analyzer     Complete Blood Count (CBC) Analyzer     Healthy Conversations Coach     Renal Test Analyzer         Coronavirus vs.
 Flu    How to Properly Use Hand Sanitizer    Tobacco: New Legal Minimum Age    Best OTC Flu Meds    Who Should Wear Medical Masks?
 COVID-19 Timeline         Health A-Z      Arthritis Type 2 Diabetes Heart Disease Digestive Health Lung Cancer Multiple Sclerosis  View All           Prevention &amp; Treatment      Vaccines First Aid Surgery Herbal Medicine Supplements Healthy Aging  View All           Health Care      Health Insurance Public Health Patient Rights Health Technology Caregivers &amp; Loved Ones End of Life Concerns  View All           News      Coronavirus Health News  View All              About Us    Editorial Process    Privacy Policy    Contact Us    Visit our other Verywell sites:   Verywell Fit        Verywell Mind       Verywell Family                   Ⓒ 2020 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved                  Infectious Diseases     Re-Emerging Diseases: Why Some Are Making a Comeback      By        Robyn Correll, MPH         twitter       linkedin           Robyn Correll, MPH holds a master of public health degree and has over a decade of experience working in the prevention of infectious diseases.
 Learn about our  editorial process    Robyn Correll, MPH      Medically reviewed by        Medically reviewed by  Anju Goel, MD, MPH  on June 29, 2020        linkedin           Anju Goel, MD, is board-certified in internal medicine.
 She has over 10 years of experience in the California public health system addressing communicable disease, health policy, and disaster preparedness.
 Learn about our  Medical Review Board    Anju Goel, MD, MPH     Updated on June 29, 2020    Print                  More in Infectious Diseases        Coronavirus (COVID-19)      Respiratory Infections      Foodborne Infections      Rare Infections      Travelers' Health      Zika Virus      More Infectious Diseases         In the past century or so, humans have fought—and won—their fair share of battles with the disease.
 Vaccines defeated smallpox.
 Antibiotics conquered scarlet fever.
 And insecticide scaled back mosquito-borne illnesses.
 Despite these successes, some diseases appear to be making a comeback.
 Outbreaks of measles and mumps have made more than a few headlines of late, for example.
 While the reasons behind the rise and fall of diseases are often complex and difficult to pin down, here are a few key reasons behind some of these resurgences.
 Zave Smith​ / Getty Images         Vaccine Refusal   One of the greatest public health achievements in history, vaccines are credited for the massive decline of potentially dangerous diseases like measles and polio.
 Although the majority of families embrace vaccination,﻿﻿ a growing number appear to be delaying or forgoing vaccines altogether due to a misunderstanding of the safety, effectiveness, and necessity of vaccination.
 In Texas, for example, the number of students with nonmedical exemptions to school vaccine requirements has skyrocketed from just 10,404 in 2007 to 52,756 in 2017.﻿﻿ While the overall vaccination rate for measles in Texas held fairly steady between 2007 and 2017 with a rate of about 97% for students, research shows that unvaccinated individuals tend to cluster in the same communities and schools,﻿﻿ resulting in a breakdown of protective herd immunity and leaving those individuals vulnerable to outbreaks of disease.
 In the case of Texas, more than 360 of the state's 1,745 independent school districts—or 21%—had measles vaccination rates below the 83% to 94% threshold recommended to achieve herd immunity, and at least five districts reported measles vaccination rates of 50% or less.﻿﻿ If someone infected with measles were to enter those communities, the disease could spread like wildfire.
 Measles is one of the most contagious diseases.
 It was officially declared eliminated in the United States in 2000,﻿﻿ but since then, dozens of outbreaks and thousands of cases have been reported—including an outbreak involving Disneyland that led to more than 300 cases in the United States and Canada.
 According to a review published in JAMA, high numbers of vaccine refusers in a given community increases the risk of measles not just for unvaccinated individuals, but for vaccinated people, too.
 That's because no vaccine is 100 percent effective.
 Some people who receive the vaccine might not respond to it and could get sick anyway if they are exposed to the virus.
 Unless the United States is able to increase vaccination rates in communities throughout the country, these outbreaks will likely continue.
 Practice Talking to Someone Skeptical About Vaccines Using Our Virtual Conversation Coach               Waning or Insufficient Immunity   Measles isn't the only vaccine-preventable disease seeing a resurgence.
 Cases of pertussis and mumps have also been on the rise, and while vaccine refusal is certainly a factor, there's another culprit potentially at play: insufficient or waning immunity.﻿﻿   Many of the individuals involved in recent outbreaks of mumps and pertussis have been at least partially vaccinated.
 Does that mean that the vaccine doesn't work?
 Not exactly.
 Pertussis vaccines are about 80% to 90% effective when they're first given.
 Mumps vaccines are about 88% effective after two doses.
 As time goes on, however, research suggests that that immunity wanes, and more doses might be needed to protect against outbreaks.
 Vaccines work by training your body to fight a particular pathogen, like a virus, bacteria, or toxin.﻿﻿ The immune system creates antibodies to fight off the vaccine, and then stores away the info in case they come in contact with the disease in the future.
 It's a powerful tool, but it's not like flipping a switch.
 Vaccines don't guarantee immediate and lifelong immunity for everyone who gets them, and the same is true for wild infection of disease.
 If the body isn’t exposed to the pathogen or vaccine again for a long time, the body can “forget” how to make the antibodies, and isn’t as able to adequately fight off an infection—even though the person was vaccinated.
 It's important to note that while vaccines aren't perfect, they are still the best way to prevent diseases like mumps and pertussis.
 Drug Resistance   Antibiotics used to be a magic bullet to cure a wide range of diseases.
 The discovery of penicillin in the late 1920s was a game-changer, as diseases that used to mean certain death suddenly became treatable.
 But just as humans have found ways to stave off disease, viruses and bacteria have been adapting, too.
 Tuberculosis, for example, used to kill roughly one out of every seven people who got it.
 Effective diagnosis and treatment have led to a drop in incidence rates in the United States and globally, but that progress is threatened as drug-resistant tuberculosis continues to crop up around the world.
 Effective treatment is available, however; it is when treatment is not available that TB can be fatal.
 And it's not the only one.
 Drug resistance has been seen with a number of diseases—some of them posing urgent threats to public health, including sexually transmitted diseases like gonorrhea.
 Bacteria that cause illness can be thought of as being "bad" bacteria.
 Most of these bad bacteria will respond to antibiotics but some may be resistant.
 You also have "good" bacteria that help protect your body from the bad types.
 Antibiotics kill both the good and bad bacteria, but only the bad ones that respond to antibiotics.
 The resistant ones are left behind.
 Without good bacteria to keep them at bay, they can multiply, take over, and potentially spread from person to person or pass on their super-strength to other bacteria.
 In addition, taking antibiotics might lead some bad bacteria to mutate and become resistant to the medicine so that they can survive in your body.
 One of the most important steps in combatting drug resistance is to change the way antibiotics are used and prescribed.
 According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as much as 50 percent of the time antibiotics are prescribed, they are prescribed incorrectly or in a way that's suboptimal—for example, prescribing antibiotics for what is really a viral infection, like the cold.
 Misuse of antibiotics in food-producing animals can also lead to drug resistance of food-borne illnesses like salmonella in humans, and thus should only be used under the supervision and direction of a licensed veterinarian.
 Individuals can also do more to prevent drug resistance by working harder to prevent illness in general through better hand-washing, safe food prep, and using medications only when necessary and as prescribed.
 Climate Change   Perhaps the largest resurgence of disease is yet to come.
 With the rise in global temperatures, the earth is seeing changes in not only the environment, but also shifts in animal habitats and human interaction as extreme weather events—always a threat to human health and safety—become more frequent.﻿﻿   Scientists are cautioning that a warmer, wetter planet will lead to a resurgence of a number of diseases.
 Heavy rains and subsequent flooding, for example, can overwhelm drains and back up sewer lines, leading to the contamination of water supplies and outbreaks of diseases like cholera.﻿﻿ Warmer temperatures and increases in precipitation are allowing tropical mosquito populations to creep ever-closer to the poles, risking a surge in vector-borne illnesses like malaria.﻿﻿ And rising sea levels will likely displace whole communities and force them to move to increasingly urban spaces, where diseases can more easily spread.
 When and where these events will happen is—at this point—largely theoretical due to the highly complex nature of disease transmission pathways.
 But health officials predict that the changing climate will likely, at the very least, exacerbate and expand current health issues, especially in areas that lack the infrastructure and resources to prepare and respond.
 Flickers of that are already starting to appear.
 Dengue fever incidence has increased significantly in the past several decades, in part because of warmer temperatures and higher precipitation allowing its vector, the Aedes mosquito, to expand its habit.﻿﻿﻿ Reported cases of waterborne diarrheal diseases commonly seen following heavy precipitation—like legionella and cryptosporidium—have seen a rise in recent years, and warmer waters have made cholera-causing bacteria able to survive in areas they couldn't before.﻿﻿ These increases might be only the beginning.
 A Word From Verywell   The ebb and flow of disease incidence are highly complex and almost never due to a single, solitary cause.
 Examples given above are meant to illustrate how these specific factors are influencing disease trends, and aren't meant to represent an exhaustive explanation for why a particular disease is making a comeback.
 Additionally, while some of these pathogens are, indeed, showing signs of a resurgence, many more are conquered every day through large-scale and coordinated public health efforts.
 The significance of this success shouldn't be overlooked.
 Was this page helpful?
 Thanks for your feedback!
 Sign up for our Health Tip of the Day newsletter, and receive daily tips that will help you live your healthiest life.
 Sign Up  You're in!
 There was an error.
 Please try again.
 What are your concerns?
 Other   Inaccurate   Hard to Understand     Submit           Article Sources           Verywell Health uses only high-quality sources, including peer-reviewed studies, to support the facts within our articles.
 Read our editorial process to learn more about how we fact-check and keep our content accurate, reliable, and trustworthy.
 Center for Disease Control and Prevention.
 Archived interactive reports by survey year (1995-2017).
 Texas Department of State Health Services.
 Vaccination coverage levels in Texas schools.
 Omer SB, Enger KS, Moulton LH, Halsey NA, Stokley S, Salmon DA.
 Geographic clustering of nonmedical exemptions to school immunization requirements and associations with geographic clustering of pertussis.
 Am J Epidemiol.
 2008;168(12):1389-96. doi:10.1093/aje/kwn263 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 History and epidemiology of global smallpox eradication.
 Centers For Disease Control and Prevention.
 Measles history.
 Phadke VK, Bednarczyk RA, Salmon DA, Omer SB.
 Association between vaccine refusal and vaccine-preventable diseases in the United States: A review of measles and pertussis.
 JAMA.
 2016;315(11):1149–1158.
 doi:10.1001/jama.2016.1353 Federman RS.
 Understanding vaccines: a public imperative.
 Yale J Biol Med.
 2014;87(4):417-22.
 World Health Organization.
 Climate and Health country profiles - 2015: A Global Overview.
 Kraemer MU, Sinka ME, Duda KA, et al.
 The global distribution of the arbovirus vectors Aedes aegypti and Ae.
 albopictus.
 Elife.
 2015;4:e08347.
 doi:10.7554/eLife.08347 Constantin de magny G, Colwell RR.
 Cholera and climate: a demonstrated relationship.
 Trans Am Clin Climatol Assoc.
 2009;120:119-28.
 Additional Reading   Center for Disease Control and Prevention.
 Archived interactive reports by survey year (1995-2017).
 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 History and epidemiology of global smallpox eradication.
 Centers For Disease Control and Prevention.
 Measles History.
 Constantin de magny G, Colwell RR.
 Cholera and climate: a demonstrated relationship.
 Trans Am Clin Climatol Assoc.
 2009;120:119-28. pmid: 19768169 Federman RS.
 Understanding vaccines: a public imperative.
 Yale J Biol Med.
 2014;87(4):417-22. pmid: 25506276 Kraemer MU, Sinka ME, Duda KA, et al.
 The global distribution of the arbovirus vectors Aedes aegypti and Ae.
 albopictus.
 Elife.
 2015;4:e08347.
 doi:10.7554/eLife.08347 Omer SB, Enger KS, Moulton LH, Halsey NA, Stokley S, Salmon DA.
 Geographic clustering of nonmedical exemptions to school immunization requirements and associations with geographic clustering of pertussis.
 Am J Epidemiol.
 2008;168(12):1389-96. doi:10.1093/aje/kwn263 Phadke VK, Bednarczyk RA, Salmon DA, Omer SB.
 Association between vaccine refusal and vaccine-preventable diseases in the United States: A review of measles and pertussis.
 JAMA.
 2016;315(11):1149–1158.
 doi:10.1001/jama.2016.1353 Texas Department of State Health Services.
 Vaccination coverage levels in Texas schools.
 Warfel JM, Zimmerman LI, Merkel TJ.
 Acellular pertussis vaccines protect against disease but fail to prevent infection and transmission in a nonhuman primate model.Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America.
 2014;111(2):787-792. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1314688110 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 About Antimicrobial Resistance.
 Dayan GH, Rubin S, Plotkin S. Mumps Outbreaks in Vaccinated Populations: Are Available Mumps Vaccines Effective Enough to Prevent Outbreaks?
 Clin Infect Dis.
 2008;47(11):1458-1467.
 World Health Organization.
 Climate and Health Country Profiles - 2015: A Global Overview.
 Related Articles            What Is an Antigen?
 By Angelica Bottaro              Rubella: Symptoms, Treatment, Complications, Eradication   Medically reviewed by Andy Miller, MD              Beyond Zika: What to Know About Mosquito-Borne Diseases   Medically reviewed by Anju Goel, MD, MPH              Causes and Risk Factors of Mumps   Medically reviewed by Andy Miller, MD              Is It Food Poisoning?
 How to Tell and What to Do   Medically reviewed by Anju Goel, MD, MPH              Smallpox: Causes and Risk Factors   Medically reviewed by Andy Miller, MD              An Overview of Haemophilus Influenzae Type B (Hib)   Medically reviewed by Anju Goel, MD, MPH              R0 for Determining the Spread of Disease   Medically reviewed by Susan Olender, MD                             10 Vaccines You Might Need Before You Travel   Fact checked by Dale Brauner              An Overview of Ehrlichiosis   By Sherry Christiansen              Preventing Yellow Fever   Medically reviewed by Andy Miller, MD              What You Need to Know About Superbugs   Medically reviewed by Mary Choy, PharmD              An Overview of Rubella   Medically reviewed by Lyndsey Garbi, MD              Heavy Flooding From Hurricanes Can Contribute to Waterborne Disease   Medically reviewed by Andy Miller, MD              What Is Typhus?
 By Angelica Bottaro              Smallpox: Symptoms, Causes, Diagnosis, and Treatment   Medically reviewed by Andy Miller, MD                         Verywell Health uses cookies to provide you with a great user experience.
 By using Verywell Health, you accept our  use of cookies.
 Verywell Health            Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox     Sign Up  You're in!
 There was an error.
 Please try again.
 Follow Us     facebook       pinterest       instagram       flipboard             Health A-Z    Prevention &amp; Treatment    Health Care    News     Medical Review Board About Us Editorial Process Anti-Racism Pledge Privacy Policy In the News Cookie Policy Advertise Terms of Use Careers California Privacy Notice Contact   Visit our other Verywell sites:   Verywell Fit        Verywell Mind       Verywell Family                    Ⓒ 2020 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved        Verywell Health is part of the Dotdash publishing family.
