The Fund relies primarily on individual donations from individuals and support from Amazon.com Services LLC to fund this program.
 Every contribution helps and when combined with the donations of others can provide a tax-free grant (USA) to help a fellow individual in need when they are facing the unexpected.
 Make a Donation  You can make a voluntary ongoing gift or one-time gift through our secure site using your credit/debit card or directly donate through your payroll.
 Donation FAQ        To make a US Donation using your Credit Card, Debit Card or PayPal click here.
 Donate  To make a donation via Text-to-Give, simply text the unique keyword "ARelief" to 71777.
 All donations to the fund at the Emergency Assistance Foundation, Inc. are tax deductible in the U.S.
 The EIN# for the Emergency Assistance Foundation is 45-1813056.
 Apply for a grant If you are experiencing a personal hardship or the effects of a qualified disaster, you can apply for a grant for financial assistance.
 Please note that initially the Amazon Relief Fund is focused on supporting our U.S.-based Delivery Associates employed by Delivery Service Providers, our Amazon Flex Delivery Partners, and Associates working for Integrity Staffing, Adecco Staffing, and RES Staffing, and drivers and support team members of line haul partners under financial distress due to a COVID-19 diagnosis or quarantine.
 Additional qualifying events for other eligible applicants will be available on the Amazon Relief Fund website as soon as possible.
 Please read the Application FAQs to see if you qualify.
 Application FAQ            Apply for a Grant        Already registered?
 - Sign in      The Emergency Assistance Foundation, Inc. will manage all fund activities, and when needed assist applicants with their grant applications.
 Amazon.com Services LLC will not have any insight into the grant process unless a grant recipient chooses to share his or her story.
 Community Resources      The Emergency Assistance Foundation is here to help applicants through their challenging times.
 Please click the link above for social service suggestions, educational courses that cover everything from disaster preparedness to financial education and more.
 © 2020 Emergency Assistance Foundation, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
 Privacy Policy | Terms of use
