NEW Home Speaking Wind Woman Gypsy Wind Productions Fibro Fight Series Art Gallery    						Cannabis Corner					   					with Speaking Wind Woman				       31 							Aug 2015						  5 Comments      							Cannabis Edibles: GREEN Ice Cream!
 I SCREAM….
 YOU SCREAM….
 WE ALL SCREAM for the GREEN!
 Edibles are definitely the way to go for many medical marijuana patients across the globe and new recipes that include cannabis are popping up constantly in my news feed.
 Ice Cream infused/made with Cannabis is becoming quite popular.
 Ben Cohen (of Ben and Jerrys famously branded ice cream impresarios) declared on HuffPo Live that they’d support making a cannabis-infused version of their sweet treats available where marijuana is legal.
 SO, how probable is it that we’ll see Ben &amp; Jerry’s “Reefer Rum” or “Cheeba Cherry” in the freezer case?
 With the sale of almost 5 million edibles in Colorado last year, according to Time, creating a food-based marijuana product seems like a no-brainer for Ben and Jerry’s… BUT, for now, it’s not happening – In the meantime….
 here are a few decent recipes if you’d like to try making some yourself!
 Have some fun and experiment!
 Keep us posted at CANNABIS CORNER sharing your pics and experiences.
 Speaking with Brian Smith, co-owner of Ample Hills Creamery, a Brooklyn-based ice-cream shop, for some ideas about making a weed-infused ice cream at home.
 Smith says they’ve concocted a lot of flavors that involved steeping ingredients like Cap’n Crunch, pretzels, or tea leaves, which is exactly what you would do to make a weed-infused ice cream.
 According to The Stoner’s Cookbook, you should cook (decarboxylate) your weed first,, but the steeping process will give you a smoother texture and a stronger potency.
 Easiest recipe I’ve found to date: Time Required: 20 to 30 hours Yields about 1 Quart of Ice Cream What You Need:  1½ quart ice cream freezer container large saucepan fine strainer large bowl 2 cups CannaMilk 1 cup half-and-half ¾ cup sugar 1 tablespoon corn starch pinch of salt 2 egg yolks 2 tablespoons vanilla  Steps:  Combine Cannamilk, half-and-half, ½ cup sugar, cornstarch and salt in a large saucepan and whisk together thoroughly.
 Cook over medium heat while stirring constantly until mixture starts to thicken, about 10 minutes.
 Remove from heat.
 Whisk egg yolks in a separate bowl while gradually adding 1 cup of the hot canna-cream from the saucepan.
 Return hot canna-cream and yolk mixture to the saucepan while whisking constantly.
 Heat everything for an additional 2 minutes; stir constantly.
 Pour the canna-cream mixture through a fine strainer and into a large bowl.
 Discard any solids.
 Chill cream uncovered in refrigerator for 1 hour; stir occasionally.
 Place plastic wrap on top of cream mixture after 1 hour.
 Let chill in refrigerator for another 12 to 24 hours.
 Pour cold cream mixture into 1½ quart ice cream freezer container.
 Stir in vanilla extract.
 Place lid on container, or cover with plastic wrap and freeze until ice cream is firm.
 Let stand at room temperature for 5 minutes before scooping and serving.
 Best of luck – DONT FORGET TO POST YOUR PICS AND RESULTS AT THE CANNABIS CORNER and on that note…  Get Healthy, Be Strong, Stay happy!
 This article was written by Speaking Wind Woman, host of Gypsy Wind Productions who believes education is empowerment –  CLICK HERE TO FIND US ON FACEBOOK FOR CANNABIS CORNER – FIND US ON FACEBOOK &amp; SIGN UP TODAY…… check out her website and YouTube video series!!!
 I’ll probably be back again to read more, thanks for the info!
 LikeLike   Reply ↓        thoughtswithdildo on September 11, 2015 at 4:52 pm said:   Looks amazing!!
 LikeLiked by 1 person   Reply ↓        lewison on September 6, 2015 at 1:29 pm said:   Welcome .
 Your favorite green plant is just one email away .
 We risk it so you can get the best.indicas and sativas.
 contact -lewison@maskr.me – for more LikeLiked by 1 person   Reply ↓        Michelle on September 3, 2015 at 6:12 pm said:   Hell yes!
 :)✌ LikeLiked by 1 person   Reply ↓     Pingback: Cannabis GREEN Ice Cream!
 |    Leave a Reply Cancel reply   Enter your comment here...
 Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:                                   Email (required) (Address never made public)    Name (required)    Website                 			You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
 ( Log Out /  				Change ) 			                 			You are commenting using your Google account.
 ( Log Out /  				Change ) 			                 			You are commenting using your Twitter account.
 ( Log Out /  				Change ) 			                 			You are commenting using your Facebook account.
 Notify me of new posts via email.
 Blog Stats  24,405 hits   Follow Cannabis Corner via Email  Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
 Join 2,056 other followers							    							Email Address:						           	     Follow Cannabis Corner          Recent Posts   How old were you when you began using cannabis?
 Click to customize it.
 ","logInToExternalAccount":"Log in to use details from one of these accounts.
 Email check failed, please try again			  				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
 Privacy &amp; Cookies: This site uses cookies.
 By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
 ","no_comment_email":"Please provide an email address to comment.
 ","no_comment_author":"Please provide your name to comment.
 ","comment_post_error":"Sorry, but there was an error posting your comment.
 Please try again later.
 ","comment_approved":"Your comment was approved.
 ","comment_unapproved":"Your comment is in moderation.
