Skip to main content           The Guardian - Back to home          Support The Guardian   Available for everyone, funded by readers    Contribute        Subscribe        Subscribe            Search jobs            Sign in          My account      Account overview     Billing     Profile     Emails &amp; marketing     Settings     Help      Comments &amp; replies                  Sign out           Search            switch to the  UK edition     switch to the  US edition     switch to the  Australia edition     switch to the  International edition     current edition:  UK edition      News     Opinion     Sport     Culture     Lifestyle          Show More           News     UK news     World news     Business     Coronavirus     Football     Environment     UK politics     Education     Society     Science     Tech     Global development     Obituaries        Opinion     The Guardian view     Columnists     Cartoons     Opinion videos     Letters        Sport     Football     Cricket     Rugby union     Tennis     Cycling     F1     Golf     Boxing     Rugby league     Racing     US sports        Culture     Film     Music     TV &amp; radio     Books     Art &amp; design     Stage     Games     Classical        Lifestyle     Fashion     Food     Recipes     Travel     Health &amp; fitness     Women     Men     Love &amp; sex     Beauty     Home &amp; garden     Money     Cars               What term do you want to search?
 Rush, a former member of the militant group the Black Panthers, came into the chamber wearing a suit, with a hoodie underneath.
 As Rush began to speak, he took off his jacket to reveal the hoodie, which has become a symbol of solidarity with Martin.
 Pulling up the hood, he said: "Racial profiling has to stop.
 Just because someone wears a hoodie does not make them a hoodlum."
 As he continued speaking, he took off his normal glasses and replaced them with sunglasses.
 He was interrupted by the acting Speaker, Gregg Harper, from Mississippi, who said: "The member will suspend."
 He added that Rush was in breach of a House regulations on decorum.
 Rush, who represents Illinois, continued, quoting from the Bible.
 Harper, speaking over him, repeated: "The gentleman will suspend."
 Looking exasperated, Harper finally said: "The member is no longer recognised."
 He then asked the serjeant-at-arms to enforce the prohibition.
 After he had left, Harper reiterated that Rush was in breach of the rule on decorum, which meant no hats.
 "The donning of a hood is not consistent with this rule," he said.
 The Martin case has become one of the most heated race-related issues of recent years.
 Martin was fatally shot in Sanford, Florida, last month.
 He had been wearing a hoodie at the time.
 George Zimmerman, a member of a neighbourhood watch patrol, had called the police to say he had seen someone in a hoodie who looked suspicious.
 Zimmerman has not been charged.
 Martin's parents were in Congress Tuesday for a hearing of the House judiciary committee on racial profiling.
 In an interview with the Washington Post, they praised Rush's actions.
 The father, Tracy Martin, said: "I would like to commend Congressman Rush for pleading our case.
 My question would be why wasn't Congressman Rush allowed to address racial profiling.
 This is something that needs to be talked about … This is a country of freedom of speech."
 Trayvon's mother, Sybrina Fulton, said: "It just shows a lot of people are passionate about his movement of Trayvon Martin."
 She added that it also demonstrated that some people just did not get it.
 The two met Rush on Tuesday.
 They told the Post they believed he had been killed because of racial profiling.
 Rush co-founded in 1968 the Illinois chapter of the Black Panthers, a group which rejected Martin Luther King's non-violent approach to civil rights in favour of violence.
 He was imprisoned for six months in 1972 on a gun charge.
 A born-again Christian, he left the Panthers in 1974 and has represented Illinois in Congress since 1993.
 As a political veteran going back to the 1960s and respected by many African-Americans in Chicago for his role in the Black Panthers, he was contemptous when faced with a challenge for his seat in 2000 by the then little-known Barack Obama.
 Rush treated him as upstart who knew little of life in Chicago's poor, African-American neighbourhoods.
 Obama countered that Rush belonged to the past and there was a need to work with whites to get things done.
 Rush crushed him in the primary, one of Obama's few serious setbacks.
 • This article was corrected on 29 March 2012 because a subheading referred to Bobby Rush as a former Blank Panther.
 Now his community is seeking answers, and change         Published: 30 Mar 2012      Echoes of Trayvon Martin as residents seek justice for Bronx teen's death                          Trayvon Martin lawyers intensify call for arrest amid more evidence leaks    New eyewitness account and police station video further negate George Zimmerman's self-defence claim, family lawyers say         Published: 30 Mar 2012      Trayvon Martin lawyers intensify call for arrest amid more evidence leaks                          Trayvon Martin death: thousands march in protest - in pictures   Thousands of people joined a march through Sanford, the Florida town where Trayvon Martin was shot and killed         Gallery          Published: 1 Apr 2012       Trayvon Martin death: thousands march in protest - in pictures                          Trayvon Martin killing: witness says he saw Zimmerman walk away uninjured    Account contradicts allegation from Zimmerman's father that Trayvon Martin left his son with injuries including a broken nose         Published: 30 Mar 2012      Trayvon Martin killing: witness says he saw Zimmerman walk away uninjured                 Trayvon Martin aftermath video casts doubt on George Zimmerman's account            Published: 29 Mar 2012      Trayvon Martin aftermath video casts doubt on George Zimmerman's account           Trayvon Martin shooting: CCTV footage casts doubt on Zimmerman testimony - video           0:54          Published: 29 Mar 2012       Trayvon Martin shooting: CCTV footage casts doubt on Zimmerman testimony - video           Congressman Bobby Rush wears hoodie on House floor to protest against Trayvon Martin case – video           1:20          Published: 28 Mar 2012       Congressman Bobby Rush wears hoodie on House floor to protest against Trayvon Martin case – video                    More more on this story            Most popular                            US     Elections 2020     World     Environment     Soccer     US Politics     Business     Tech     Science     Newsletters            News     Opinion     Sport     Culture     Lifestyle            About us     Contact us     Complaints &amp; corrections     SecureDrop     Work for us     Privacy policy     Cookie policy     Terms &amp; conditions     Help       All topics     All writers     Modern Slavery Act     Digital newspaper archive     Facebook     Twitter     Newsletters       Advertise with us     Guardian Labs     Search jobs     Patrons       Support The Guardian   Available for everyone, funded by readers    Contribute        Subscribe            Back to top          © 2020 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
 All rights reserved.
