NEWS ECONOMY  Business Industry Tourism   ENTERTAINMENT  Celebrities Fashion Gaming   HEALTH  Disease Feminine Hygiene Food Mental Illness   PEOPLE  Accident Controversy Crime Family Lawsuit Pregnancy Tragedy   SCIENCE  Archeology Environment Genetics History Paleontology Technology   SOCIETY  Justice Happiness Politics Religion Terrorism Sexuality   SPORTS  International Events Olympics Professional Sport   WEIRD  Paranormal UFO   ABOUT US  FAQ CONTACT US DISCLAIMER        Hot Topics     October 30, 2020 | Babysitter accused of theft after binge eating 75 lbs of employer’s food in less than three hours     October 29, 2020 | Texas: US Border Patrol agents uncover illegal 300-mile-long subway tunnel under US and Mexico border     October 23, 2020 | Missouri park rangers discover remains of two hunters inside a 1200-lb boar     October 20, 2020 | Wuhan: Thousands of mosquitoes inoculated with Viagra escape from high-security laboratory     October 15, 2020 | 7-year old girl buys a dozen ponies and a merry-go-round after borrowing her dad’s credit card              DISCLAIMER    TERMS OF USE Your access to, and use of, this site is subject to the following Terms of Use and all applicable laws and regulations.
 By accessing and using the site, you accept, without limitation or qualification, these Terms of Use, and acknowledge that any other agreements between you and World News Daily Report are superseded with respect to this subject matter.
 If you do not agree and accept, without limitation or qualification, these Terms of Use please exit the site.
 Legal Notice Information contained in this World News Daily Report website is for information and entertainment purposes only.
 The website and the information (including changes to the terms herein) may be changed or updated from time to time without notice.
 In consideration for using this website, the visitor agrees to hold WNDR and its directors, officers, members, employees and agents harmless against any claims for damages or costs or any loss of any kind arising out of the access to or use of this website or any information contained in or obtained through this website.
 Certain links in the website connect to other sites maintained by third parties that may or may not be presented within a frame on the website.
 World News Daily Report has not verified the contents of such third party sites and does not endorse, warrant, promote or recommend any services or products, that may be provided or accessed through them or any person or body which may provide them.
 WNDR has not issued or caused to be issued any advertisements which may appear on these websites and therefore accepts no responsibility for such content.
 Disclaimer The nature of Internet communications means that your communications may be susceptible to data corruption, unauthorized access, interception and delays.
 This website may include incomplete information, inaccuracies or typographical errors.
 World News Daily Report, and any other persons involved in the management of this website, may make changes in the information and content included in this website at any time without notice.
 WNDR shall not be responsible for any incorrect or inaccurate information, whether caused by website users or by any of the equipment or programming associated with or utilized in this website or by any technical or human error which may occur.
 WNDR assumes however all responsibility for the satirical nature of its articles and for the fictional nature of their content.
 All characters appearing in the articles in this website – even those based on real people –  are entirely fictional and any resemblance between them and any persons, living, dead, or undead is purely a miracle.
 Trademark and Copyright Copyright 2016 © New World Order Media.
 All rights reserved.
 All characters appearing in the articles in this website – even those based on real people – are entirely fictional and any resemblance between them and any person, living, dead or undead, is purely a miracle.
