2Our nation has su˜ered too much at the hands of dangerous people who use 
guns to commit horri˚c acts of violence. As President Obama said following the 

Sandy Hook Elementary School tragedy, 
ﬁWe won™t be able to stop every violent 

act, but if there is even one thing that we can do to prevent any of these events, we 

have a deep obligation, all of us, to try.ﬂ
Most gun owners are responsible and law-abiding, and they use 
their guns safely. The President strongly believes that the Second Amendment guarantees 

an individual right to bear arms. But to better protect our children and our 

communities from tragic mass shootings like those in Newtown, Aurora, Oak 

Creek, and Tucson, there are four common-sense steps we can take right now. 
THE PRESIDEN
T™S 
PLAN INCLUDES:
1. Closing background check loopholes to keep guns out 
     of dangerous hands;
2. Banning military-style assault weapons and high-capacity 
     magazines, and taking other common-sense steps to reduce 
 
    gun violence; 
3. Making schools safer; and 
4. Increasing access to mental health services.
While no law or set of laws will end gun violence, it is clear that the 
American people want action. If even one child™s life can be saved, then we need to act. 

Now is the time to do the right thing for our children, our communities, and 
the country we love.
 3˜. 
CLOSIN
G B
AC
KG
ROUND
 CHEC
K 
LOOP
HOLES
 TO K
EE
P GUNS
 OUT OF 
DAN
GER
OUS
 HANDS
Most gun owners buy their guns legally and use them safely, whether for self-defense, hunting, or 
sport shooting. Yet too often, irresponsible and dangerous individuals have been able to easily 
 get their hands on ˜rearms. We must strengthen our e˚orts to keep guns from falling into the 
 wrong hands. 
RE
QUIRE
 BAC
KG
ROUND
 CHEC
KS FO
R ALL
 GUN
 SALES
 The single most important thing we can do to prevent gun violence and mass shootings, like the one 

in Newtown, is to make sure those who would commit acts of violence cannot get access to guns. A 
critical tool in achieving that goal is the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, which 
was created by the Brady Act to ensure that guns are not sold to those prohibited from buying them, 

including felons and those convicted of domestic violence. Over the last 14 years it has helped keep 

more than 1.5 million guns out of the wrong hands. It is able to make 92 percent of background check 
determinations on the spot. However, too many guns are still sold without a background check and 
too many individuals prohibited from having a gun slip through the cracks. We need to strengthen 

the system by requiring every gun buyer to go through a background check and ensuring that the 
background check system has complete information on people prohibited from having guns. 
 We should:

 Right now, federally licensed 
˜rearms dealers are required to run background checks on those buying guns, but studies 
estimate that nearly 40 percent of all gun sales are made by private sellers who are exempt 
from this requirement. A national survey of inmates found that only 12 percent of those who 

used a gun in a crime acquired it from a retail store or pawn shop, where a background check 

should have been run. Congress should pass legislation that goes beyond just closing the ﬁgun 
show loopholeﬂ to require background checks for all ˜rearm sales, with limited, common-sense 
exceptions for cases like certain transfers between family members and temporary transfers for 

hunting and sporting purposes.

Private sellers can already choose to sell their guns through licensed dealers so the dealer can 

run a background ch
eck on the buyer, and the Administration is calling on them to do so. The 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) will send an open letter to licensed 
dealers giving them guidance on how best to facilitate these checks.
 4STREN
GT
HEN
 THE
 BAC
KG
ROUND
 CHEC
K SYSTEM 
 The background check system is the most e˛cient and e˚ective way to keep guns out of the hands 
of dangerous individuals, but we need to make sure it has access to complete information about 
these individuals. For example, although the number of mental health records available to the system 
has increased by 800 percent since 2004, a recent report by the Government Accountability O˛ce 

found that there are still 17 states that have made fewer than 10 mental health records available. 

We need to make sure reliable data on prohibited purchasers is available to the background check 
system. The Administration is announcing four new executive actions to enhance the system™s ability 
to identify dangerous people and stop them from getting guns:


Some states have cited concerns about 
restrictions under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act as a reason not to 
share relevant information on people prohibited from gun ownership for mental health reasons. 
The Administration will begin the regulatory process to remove any needless barriers, starting by 
gathering information about the scope and extent of the problem. 
 
States are a critical source for several key categories of relevant records and data, including 
criminal history records and records of persons prohibited from having guns for mental health 
reasons. The Department of Justice will invest $20 million in FY2013 to give states stronger 

incentives to make this data available. The Administration is also proposing $50 million for this 

purpose in FY2014, and will look for additional ways to ensure that states are doing their part to 
provide relevant information.


Some federal agencies also have relevant records. The President 
is issuing a Presidential Memorandum holding agencies to requirements that they identify these 
records, make them available to the background check system, and regularly report that those 
records are complete and up-to-date.
 
The background check 
system is designed to keep guns out of the hands of those forbidden by law to have them. 
But we need to make sure our laws are e˚ective at identifying the dangerous or untrustworthy 
individuals that should not have access to guns. The President will direct the Attorney General, 

in consultation with other relevant agencies, to review the laws governing who is prohibited from 
 5having guns and make legislative and executive recommendations to ensure dangerous people 
aren™t slipping through the cracks. 
˚: B
ANNIN
G MILI
TAR
Y˛
STY
LE
 ASSAUL
T 
WEA
PO
NS
 AND
 HI
GH˛CA
PACI
TY M
AGAZINES
, 
AND
 TAKIN
G OT
HER
 COMMO
N˛SENSE
 STEPS TO 
REDUCE
 GUN
 VIOLENCE
We need to do more to prevent easy access to instruments of mass violence. We also need to 
provide law enforcement with additional tools to prevent gun violence, end the freeze on gun 
violence research, make sure health care providers know they can report credible threats of violence 
and talk to their patients about gun safety, and promote responsible gun ownership.
GET MILI
TAR
Y˛
STY
LE
 ASSAUL
T WEA
PO
NS
 AND
 HI
GH˛CA
PACI
TY 
MAGAZINES
 OFF T
HE
 STREE
TS A 2010 survey by the Police Executive Research Forum found that more than one-third of police 

departments reported an increase in criminals™ use of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines 
since the prohibition on high-capacity magazines and assault weapons expired in 2004. To protect 
law enforcement and enhance public safety, we must redouble our e˚orts to:

The shooters in Aurora and 
Newtown used the type of semiautomatic ri˝es that were the target of the assault weapons ban 
that was in place from 1994 to 2004. That ban was an important step, but manufacturers were 
able to circumvent the prohibition with cosmetic modi˜cations to their weapons. Congress must 
reinstate and strengthen the prohibition on assault weapons.

The case for prohibiting high-capacity 
magazines has been proven over and over; the shooters at Virginia Tech, Tucson, Aurora, Oak 
Creek, and Newtown all used magazines holding more than 10 rounds, which would have been 
prohibited under the 1994 law. These magazines enable any semiautomatic weapon to be used 

as an instrument of mass violence, yet they are once again legal and now come standard with 

many handguns and ri˝es. Congress needs to reinstate the prohibition on magazines holding 
more than 10 rounds.

 It is already illegal to 
manufacture and import armor-piercing ammunition except for military or law enforcement use. 
 6But it is generally still not illegal to possess or transfer this dangerous ammunition. Congress should 
˜nish the job of protecting law enforcement and the public by banning the possession of armor-
piercing ammunition by, and its transfer to, anyone other than the military and law enforcement.
GIVE LA
W EN
FO
RCE
MEN
T ADDI
TIONAL
 TOO
LS
 TO P
RE
VEN
T AND
 PROSECU
TE GUN
 CRI
MEIn order to prevent and respond to gun violence, we must give law enforcement every tool they need 
to keep us safe. That includes passing stronger laws to stop those who would put guns into the hands 
of criminals, keeping 15,000 cops on the street, and eliminating restrictions that keep federal law 
enforcement from doing its job.

Today, criminals can easily buy guns from 
unlicensed dealers, or acquire them with the help of so-called ﬁstraw purchasersﬂ who pass the 
required background check to buy guns from licensed dealers. But there is no explicit law against 
straw purchasing, so straw purchasers and others who tra˛c guns can often only be prosecuted 

for paperwork violations. We cannot allow those who help put guns into the hands of criminals 

to get away with just a slap on the wrist. Congress should close these loopholes with new gun 
tra˛cking laws that impose serious penalties for these crimes.

One of the most important steps we can take to reduce gun violence is to keep police o˛cers at their posts 
in our neighborhoods and communities. The President is calling on Congress to act on the 
Administration™s $4 billion proposal to help keep 15,000 cops on the street in cities and towns 
across the country.

When law enforcement recovers a gun 
during a criminal investigation, they can trace that gun™s path from its manufacturer, to the dealer 
who sold it, to its ˜rst purchaser. This gun tracing process helps law enforcement solve violent 
crimes by generating leads in speci˜c cases and can reveal gun tra˛cking patterns when large 

amounts of tracing data are combined. However, not all federal law enforcement agencies are 

uniformly required to trace all guns they recover and keep in custody. The President will issue a 
Presidential Memorandum requiring them to trace all such ˜rearms.

Law enforcement should never be put in the position of unknowingly returning a 
gun to an individual who is prohibited from having it. Currently, when law enforcement must 
 7return ˜rearms seized as part of an investigation, they do not have the ability to conduct a full 
background check on the owner. The Administration will propose regulations to ensure that law 
enforcement has access to the database needed for complete background checks.


The ATF has not had a con˜rmed director for six years. There is no 
excuse for leaving the key agency enforcing gun laws in America without a leader. It is time for 
Congress to con˜rm an ATF director.

ATF is required to authorize the importation of 
certain ﬁcurio or relicﬂ ˜rearms, and outdated regulations include all ˜rearms manufactured more 

than 50 years ago in the de˜nition of ﬁcurio or relic.ﬂ But today, ˜rearms manufactured more than 
50 years ago include large numbers of semiautomatic military-surplus ri˝es, some of which are 

easily convertible into machine guns or otherwise appealing for use in crime. Congress should 

get rid of restrictions that prevent ATF from changing this de˜nition, enabling ATF to ensure 
that ˜rearms imported as curios or relics are actually of interest as collectibles, rather than letting 
these rules be used as a way to acquire fully functional and powerful military weapons.

The Attorney General will work with all United States Attorneys to continue to ensure that every 
appropriate resource is focused on preventing gun violence. To this end, the Attorney General 
will ask all U.S. Attorneys to consider whether supplemental e˚orts would be appropriate in 

their districts, in areas such as prosecutions of people who have been convicted of a felony and 

illegally seek to obtain a ˜rearm, or people who attempt to evade the background check system 
by providing false information. 


The Department of Justice will publish an annual report on lost and stolen guns 
to ensure that data collected by ATF is available. This report will include state-by-state statistics 
about guns reported as missing. Making this data available will provide valuable information to 
law enforcement about how to target its resources, and give states and cities the information 

they need to pass laws and take other e˚ective steps to make sure that lost and stolen guns are 

reported. The Department will also identify best practices that are working today and encourage 
states and cities to follow those models.
 8

One of the best ways to minimize the loss 
of life in a mass shooting is to make sure law enforcement, ˜rst responders, school o˛cials, and 
others are prepared to respond to an active shooter. The Administration will immediately expand 
access to federal training, and federal agencies will ensure that protocols for responding to active 

shooter situations are consistent. And Congress should provide an additional $14 million to help 

train 14,000 more police o˛cers and other public and private personnel to respond to active 
shooter situations.
END
 THE
 FREE
ZE ON GUN
 VIOLENCE
 RESEARCH
There are approximately 30,000 ˜rearm-related homicides and suicides a year, a number large 
enough to make clear this is a public health crisis. But for years, the Centers for Disease Control 
(CDC) and other scienti˜c agencies have been barred by Congress from using funds to ﬁadvocate 
or promote gun control,ﬂ and some members of Congress have claimed this prohibition also bans 

the CDC from conducting any research on the causes of gun violence. However, research on gun 

violence is not advocacy; it is critical public health research that gives all Americans information 
 they need. 

The President is issuing a Presidential 
Memorandum directing the Centers for Disease Control and scienti˜c agencies to conduct 
research into the causes and prevention of gun violence. It is based on legal analysis that 
concludes such research is not prohibited by any appropriations language. The CDC will start 

immediately by assessing existing strategies for preventing gun violence and identifying the 

most pressing research questions, with the greatest potential public health impact. And the 
Administration is calling on Congress to provide $10 million for the CDC to conduct further 
research, including investigating the relationship between video games, media images, and 
violence.

To research gun 
violence prevention, we also need better data. When ˜rearms are used in homicides or suicides, 
the National Violent Death Reporting System collects anonymous data, including the type of 
˜rearm used, whether the ˜rearm was stored loaded or locked, and details on youth gun access. 

Congress should invest an additional $20 million to expand this system from the 18 states 
 9currently participating to all 50 states, helping Americans better understand how and when 
˜rearms are used in a violent death and informing future research and prevention strategies.
PRESER
VE THE
 RI
GHTS OF 
HEAL
TH CARE
 PROV
IDERS
 TO P
ROT
EC
T 
THEIR
 PATIEN
TS AND
 COMM
UNI
TIES
 FROM G
UN
 VIOLENCE
 We should never ask doctors and other health care providers to turn a blind eye to the risks posed by 

guns in the wrong hands.


Doctors and other mental health 
professionals play an important role in protecting the safety of their patients and the broader 
community by reporting direct and credible threats of violence to the authorities. But there is 
public confusion about whether federal law prohibits such reports about threats of violence. The 

Department of Health and Human Services is issuing a letter to health care providers clarifying 
that no federal law prohibits these reports in any way.

Doctors and other health care providers also need to be able to ask about ˜rearms in their 
patients™ homes and safe storage of those ˜rearms, especially if their patients show signs of 
certain mental illnesses or if they have a young child or mentally ill family member at home. 
Some have incorrectly claimed that language in the A˚ordable Care Act prohibits doctors from 

asking their patients about guns and gun safety. Medical groups also continue to ˜ght against 

state laws attempting to ban doctors from asking these questions. The Administration will 
issue guidance clarifying that the A˚ordable Care Act does not prohibit or otherwise regulate 
communication between doctors and patients, including about ˜rearms. 
ENC
OURA
GE GUN
 OW
NERS
 TO 
LI
VE UP TO T
HEIR
 RES
PO
NSI
BILI
TY 
TO 
STO
RE
 GUNS
 SA
FEL
YThe President believes that the Second Amendment guarantees an individual right to bear arms, 
and he respects our nation™s rich hunting and sport shooting traditions and the millions of responsible 
Americans who participate in them every year. But this right comes with a responsibility to safely 
store guns to prevent them from accidentally or intentionally being used to harm others. The 

Administration is encouraging gun owners to take responsibility for keeping their guns safe and 

encouraging the development of technology that will make it easier for gun owners to meet this 
 responsibility, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission is assessing the need for new standards 
for gun locks.

The Administration will 
encourage gun owners to take responsibility for keeping their guns safe with a national 
campaign. The campaign will promote common-sense gun safety measures like the use of gun 
safes and trigger locks, separate storage of guns and ammunition, and the reporting of lost and 
stolen weapons to law enforcement. 

We 
also need to make sure that gun locks and gun safes work as intended. Several gun locks have 
been subject to recall due to their failure to function properly; that is not acceptable. The Chair 
of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) intends to review the e˚ectiveness of 

gun locks and gun safes, including existing voluntary industry standards, and take any steps that 

may be warranted to improve the standards as well as to protect the public from unreasonable 
risks of injury or death that arise when those products within the CPSC™s jurisdiction fail.

Despite rapid 
advances in technologies in recent years, there are few readily available ˜rearms that utilize these 

new technologies to help guard against unauthorized access and use. The President is directing 
the Attorney General to work with technology experts to review existing and emerging gun 

safety technologies, and to issue a report on the availability and use of those technologies. In 

addition, the Administration will issue a challenge to the private sector to develop innovative and 
cost-e˚ective gun safety technology and provide prizes for those technologies that are proven 
to be reliable and e˚ective.
˝: M
AKIN
G SCH
OO
LS
 SA
FER
We need to make our schools safer, not only by enhancing their physical security and making sure 

they are prepared to respond to emergencies like a mass shooting, but also by creating safer and 
more nurturing school climates that help prevent school violence. Each school is di˚erent and should 
have the ˝exibility to address its most pressing needs. Some schools will want trained and armed 

police; others may prefer increased counseling services. Either way, each district should be able to 
choose what is best to protect its own students.
 11PUT UP TO ˜,˙˙˙ MO
RE
 SCH
OO
L RES
OURCE
 OFF
ICERS
 AND
 COUNSEL
ORS
 IN
 SCH
OO
LS
 AND
 HEL
P SCH
OO
LS
 IN
VES
T IN
 SA
FETY
Putting school resource o˛cers and mental health professionals in schools can help prevent school 
crime and student-on-student violence. School resource o˛cers are specially trained police o˛cers 
that work in schools. When equipped with proper training and supported by evidence-based school 
discipline policies, they can deter crime with their presence and advance community policing 

objectives. Their roles as teachers and counselors enable them to develop trusting relationships 

with students that can result in threats being detected and crises averted before they occur. School 
psychologists, social workers, and counselors can help create a safe and nurturing school climate by 
providing mental health services to students who need help. Not every school will want police o˛cers 

or additional school counselors, but we should do what we can to help schools get the sta˚ they 
determine they need to stay safe.

COPS Hiring Grants, which help police departments hire o˛cers, can already be 
used by departments to fund school resource o˛cers. This year, the Department of Justice will 
provide an incentive for police departments to hire these o˛cers by providing a preference for 
grant applications that support school resource o˛cers. 

The Administration is proposing a new Comprehensive School Safety program, which will help 
school districts hire sta˚ and make other critical investments in school safety. The program 
will give $150 million to school districts and law enforcement agencies to hire school resource 

o˛cers, school psychologists, social workers, and counselors. The Department of Justice will also 

develop a model for using school resource o˛cers, including best practices on age-appropriate 
methods for working with students.

School districts could also use these Comprehensive School Safety Grants to purchase school safety equipment; develop and 
update public safety plans; conduct threat assessments; and train ﬁcrisis intervention teamsﬂ of 
law enforcement o˛cers to work with the mental health community to respond to and assist 

students in crisis. And the General Services Administration will use its purchasing power to help 
schools buy safety equipment a˚ordably. 
 12ENSURE
 EVERY 
SCH
OO
L HAS
 A COMP
REHENSI
VE EMERGENC
Y 
MANA
GEMEN
T P
LAN
In the unthinkable event of another school shooting, it is essential that schools have in place e˚ective 
and reliable plans to respond. A 2010 survey found that while 84 percent of public schools had a 
written response plan in the event of a shooting, only 52 percent had drilled their students on the plan 
in the past year. We must ensure that every school has a high-quality plan in place and that students 
and sta˚ are prepared to follow it.


The Departments of Education, Justice, Health and Human Services, and 
Homeland Security will releaseŠby May 2013Ša set of model, high-quality emergency 
management plans for schools, houses of worship, and institutions of higher education, along 
with best practices for developing these plans and training students and sta˚ to follow them. 

In addition, the Department of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Department of 

Justice, will assist interested schools, houses of worship, and institutions of higher education in 
completing their own security assessments.

Congress should provide 
$30 million of one-time grants to states to help their school districts develop and implement 
emergency management plans. But schools also need to take responsibility for getting e˚ective 
plans in place. Going forward, Congress should require states and school districts that receive 

school safety funding from the Department of Education to have comprehensive, up-to-date 

emergency plans in place for all of their schools.
CREA
TE A SA
FER
 CLI
MATE AT SCH
OO
LS
 ACR
OSS
 THE
 COUN
TRYA report issued by the U.S. Secret Service and the Department of Education after the Columbine 

shooting found that one of the best things schools can do to reduce violence and bullying is to 
improve a school™s climate and increase trust and communication between students and sta˚. 
Fortunately, we already have evidence-based strategies which have been found to reduce bullying 

and other problem behaviors like drug abuse or poor attendance, while making students feel safer at 
school and improving academic performance. 

With technical 
assistance from the Department of Education, 18,000 schools have already put in place 
 13evidence-based strategies to improve school climate. These strategies involve certain steps 
for the whole school (like consistent rules and rewards for good behavior), with more intensive 
steps for groups of students exhibiting at-risk behavior, and individual services for students 
who continue to exhibit troubling behavior. The Administration is proposing a new, $50 million 

initiative to help 8,000 more schools train their teachers and other school sta˚ to implement 

these strategies. The Administration will also develop a school climate survey, providing reliable 
data to help schools implement policies to improve climate.

Students who are suspended or expelled are far 
more likely to repeat a grade, not graduate, or become involved in the juvenile justice system. As 
a result, e˚ective school discipline policies are critical to addressing school and community crime 
and violence issues. The Department of Education will collect and disseminate best practices on 
school discipline polices and help school districts develop and equitably implement their policies. 
ˆ: 
IMP
ROV
IN
G MEN
TAL
 HEAL
TH SER
VICES
As President Obama said, ﬁWe are going to need to work on making access to mental health care as 
easy as access to a gun.ﬂ Today, less than half of children and adults with diagnosable mental health 
problems receive the treatment they need. While the vast majority of Americans with a mental 
illness are not violent, several recent mass shootings have highlighted how some cases of mental 

illness can develop into crisis situations if individuals do not receive proper treatment. We need to do 

more than just keep guns out of the hands of people with serious mental illness; we need to identify 
mental health issues early and help individuals get the treatment they need before these dangerous 
situations develop.
MAKE SURE
 STUDEN
TS AND
 YO
UN
G ADUL
TS GET TREA
TM
EN
T FO
R MEN
TAL
 HEAL
TH ISSUES
Three-quarters of mental illnesses appear by the age of 24, yet less than half of children with 
diagnosable mental health problems receive treatment. And several recent mass shootings, including 
those at Newtown, Tucson, Aurora, and Virginia Tech, were perpetrated by students or other 
 young people.


 We need to train teachers and other adults who regularly interact 
with students to recognize young people who need help and ensure they are referred to mental 
 14health services. The Administration is calling for a new initiative, Project AWARE (Advancing 
Wellness and Resilience in Education), to provide this training and set up systems to provide 
these referrals. This initiative, which would reach 750,000 young people, has two parts:

Project AWARE includes 
$15 million for training for teachers and other adults who interact with youth to detect 
and respond to mental illness in children and young adults, including how to encourage 
adolescents and families experiencing these problems to seek treatment.

Project 
AWARE also includes $40 million to help school districts work with law enforcement, mental 
health agencies, and other local organizations to assure students with mental health issues 
or other behavioral issues are referred to the services they need. This initiative builds on 

strategies that, for over a decade, have proven to decrease violence in schools and increase 
the number of students receiving mental health services. 
E˚orts to prevent school 
shootings and other gun violence can™t end when a student leaves high school. Individuals ages 
16 to 25 are at high risk for mental illness, substance abuse, and suicide, but they are among 
the least likely to seek help. Even those who received services as a child may fall through the 

cracks when they turn 18. The Administration is proposing $25 million for innovative state-based 
strategies supporting young people ages 16 to 25 with mental health or substance abuse issues.

Twenty-two percent of 14 to 17 year olds have 
witnessed a shooting in their lifetime. Research shows that exposure to community violence can 
impact children™s mental health and development and can substantially increase the likelihood 
that these children will later commit violent acts themselves. To help schools break the cycle of 

violence, Congress should provide $25 million to o˚er students mental health services for trauma 
or anxiety, con˝ict resolution programs, and other school-based violence prevention strategies.


Experts often cite the shortage of mental health service providers as one reason 
it can be hard to access treatment. To help ˜ll this gap, the Administration is proposing $50 
million to train social workers, counselors, psychologists, and other mental health professionals. 
This would provide stipends and tuition reimbursement to train more than 5,000 mental health 
professionals serving young people in our schools and communities.
 15
The sense of shame and secrecy associated with mental illness prevents too many people from 
seeking help. The President is directing Secretaries Sebelius and Duncan to launch a national 
dialogue about mental illness with young people who have experienced mental illness, members 
of the faith community, foundations, and school and business leaders.
ENSURE
 COV
ERA
GE OF M
EN
TAL
 HEAL
TH TREA
TM
EN
T 
While most mental illnesses are treatable, those with mental illness often can™t get needed treatment 
if they don™t have health insurance that covers mental health services.  The A˚ordable Care Act will 
provide one of the largest expansions of mental health coverage in a generation by extending health 
coverage to 30 million Americans, including an estimated 6 to 10 million people with mental illness.  

The A˚ordable Care Act will also make sure that Americans can get the mental health treatment 

they need by ensuring that insurance plans cover mental health bene˜ts at parity with other bene˜ts.


The Administration will issue ˜nal regulations governing how existing group health 
plans that o˚er mental health services must cover them at parity under the Mental Health Parity 
and Addiction Equity Act of 2008. In addition, the A˚ordable Care Act requires all new small 
group and individual plans to cover ten essential health bene˜t categories, including mental 

health and substance abuse services. The Administration intends to issue next month the ˜nal 

rule de˜ning these essential health bene˜ts and implementing requirements for these plans to 
cover mental health bene˜ts at parity with medical and surgical bene˜ts.


Medicaid is already the biggest funder of mental health services, and the A˚ordable 
Care Act will extend Medicaid coverage to as many as 17 million hardworking Americans. 
There is some evidence that Medicaid plans are not always meeting mental health parity 
requirements today, an issue that will only become more important as Medicaid is expanded. 

The Administration is issuing a letter to state health o˛cials making clear that these plans must 
comply with mental health parity requirements.
 LEARN 
MO
RE A
T WHI
TEH
OUSE.
GOV
ˇN
OW
˛IS˛
THE˛
TIME