we'll be keeping it brief for you this afternoon.
 I'm pleased today to welcome home from overseas, The first battalion of the 170 -eighth infantry regimen of the Illinois National Guard under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Matthew Garrison, 400 of our most exemplary Illinoisans served in Afghanistan.
 To advance Operation Freedoms sentence, these are remarkable individuals who possess a phenomenal strength and as soldiers of the 170 - eight infantry also carry the legacy of having descended from the nation's first, All Black National Guard unit the fighting eighth as governor, I have the honor of serving as the commander in Chief of Illinois And then my first 16 months I've learned a thing or two about the 13000 women and men who make up the Illinois National Guard, namely they're an astonishingly humble group, even though they've earned the right to take extraordinary pride in what they do in the midst of this covid- 19 emergency, I hope you've had a chance to see as I have just how amazing the Illinois National Guard is because it's the guard.
 That's setting up our drive-thru testing sites to serve our first responders, our medical professionals and everyday residents.
 It's the guard that has helped to build the alternate care facility at McCormick Place at a jaw-dropping record pace.
 It's the guard that has provided critical surge support as we've managed outbreaks in our facilities.
 It's the guard who deserves our deepest, reverence and gratitude.
 Wanna share more positive news on the PPE front, We have another airlift of PPE arriving tomorrow in Illinois that follows our first flight that landed earlier this week.
 I'll note that it's the Illinois National Guard handling transportation logistics on the ground and ensuring that our protective equipment gets to the front lines in the covid- 19 battle these millions of masks and gloves and other PPE will be taken to our state warehouse where inventory Performance quality checks are done before we ship them out to keep our first responders and our health care professionals protected as they work to keep us safe If it strikes you as a typical that in the midst of a National emergency, a state is directly airlifting emergency response materials from another country.
 Well, you'd be right, but that's the landscape that we're operating in competing with other States, other countries and even our own federal.
 For supplies, so if an airlift is what it takes to bring the PPE to protect our nurses, our firefighters, our police officers and other essential workers.
 then it's an airlift that will use without hesitation.
 Thank you all for tuning in over the weekend.
 We'll be back tomorrow with our regular update before we move to press questions.
 I'd like to turn it over to our director of our Department of Public Health Doctor in Gaza CKO for today's medical update Doctor Thank you sir.
 Good afternoon and thank you for everyone who tuned in every day as we report out the latest developments and the governor shares his plans to help us through this difficult time, your ability to stay informed and to use that information to make a good personal choices is what drives our efforts each day.
 Our goal is to give you the most up-to-date information that will help you understand, of course that Covid- 19 is very serious, but especially to make you.
 Understand the essential role that each of you play in helping Illinois get back on track today, I announced that there are 1190 - seven new cases of Covid-, 19, and unfortunately, 30 - three new light new deaths that brings our state total to 30350 - seven and unfortunately 1290.
 Pandemic can be overwhelming for parents and as concerning as well to the children as a mother and as a pediatrician, we recommend that parents guardians and others who work with young people strive to help them feel understood empowered and yes hopeful assure children that doctors and other health care workers are learning as much as they can about this virus as quickly as possible and are doing everything that they can to keep them safe empower themselves.
 Empower them to keep themselves safe by following guidelines on physical or social distancing cleaning surfaces washing their hands and wearing mask encourage them to feel comfortable and sharing their emotions.
 During this tough time, we all need extra support in this unprecedented moment in history I received support from my public health team, my local community, my faith community and my family each day.
 We all have to support each other in these trying times Covered 19 has dramatically altered all of our lives.
 It's changed our way of learning working recreating praying sharing everything.
 It's also stolen precious loved ones from us and even changed how we mourn for them, though we can never go back to how we were and will never get our loved ones back.
 we still must stand together.
 And employ the ongoing required sacrifices to end this this pandemic let's continue to be all in Illinois.
 And now the comments in Spanish Windows start of this grassy 1919.
 Seria y que usted juega una un parte esencial para ayudar y le noe a recuperar hoy en forma mil ciento noventa y siete casos nuevos.
 Y treinta y tres nuevos vidas perdidos joven.
 Esto nos trae treinta mil trescientos cincuenta y siete casos total y mil doscientos noventa muertes totales.
 Sé que la pandemia de puede ser difícil para los padres y preocupante para los niños, recomendamos que los padres y personas que trabajan que trabajan con jóvenes se enfocan en ayudarlos a sentirse comprendidos y empoderados.
 I say.
 Mexico's the salute.
 for distance social limpia.
 Lavander Damani mascaras an email.
 A sentir cómodos a compartir sus emociones durante este momento muy difícil, todos necesitamos un poco de apoyo adicional en este momento sin presidente en la historia.
 yo recibo apoyos del equipo de mi comunidad local.
 Mi comunidad de fe y mi familia, todos los días todos tenemos que apoyar apoyarnos.
 En estos tiempos difíciles coffin ha alterado dramáticamente todas nuestras vidas ha cambiado nuestra forma de aprender de trabajar de rezar jugar y compartir unos con otros, nos ha robado vidos preciosas y ha cambiado la forma en que Honor Ramos los que pasaron, aunque nunca podemos volver a vivir como antes.
 Nunca volvemos a ver a nuestra familia que han muerto, debemos unirnos y emplear los sacrificios necesarios para poner fin a esta pandemia gracias invitar a Gutiérrez.
 Thank you Doctor Z K and reporters just before the governor takes questions.
 Check your inboxes today cuz we're gonna go to a pool system.
 I know some of you are more familiar with pools than others.
 so we're gonna move to that system starting Monday happy to take any questions from members of the news media.
 Hi.
 I'm Michelle Fiori from Fox 30 - Two.
 I'm Michelle my first question.
 How are you my first question is that we've seen people loudly protesting in States like Michigan and Wisconsin.
 Today we actually saw a few cars driving around the block here also protesting the stay-at-home order specifically, what do you say to Wanna get back to work and especially to those who may be planning protests that may not be abiding by the social distancing rules as we saw in Wisconsin yesterday, I think I would say to all of those folks who are legitimately wanna get back to work that I do too.
 I want people to get back to work.
 I want people to go back to school and I want us to have a great summer and so I'm looking for all the best ways to make that happen, but we're in the Middle of an.
 Pandemic and it's like nothing that we've ever seen at least in our lifetimes and so we're listening to the experts and the scientists and you know you've seen some of them here at this podium before and I've talked about them, the University of Chicago, the University of Illinois, Urbana Champaign UIC in Northwestern and others SEIU the experts that were relying upon and then the National and international experts former heads of the FDA.
 And other CDC, and so when I've had personal conversations with Doctor Fouche and the fact is that we have got to be very careful as we make decisions about change in the stay-at-home mother to keep people safe and I'm looking at all of the ways in which we can open things up and keep people safe and so I want us to get where they want us to get to my next question.
 you ordered schools to remain closed through the end of this semester.
 President Trump is talking.
 About opening the country possibly in stages and there are parents out there today who have giant concerns wondering if their company says they're one of the people who has to stop working from home and have to stop start going back into their businesses while their kids are still home.
 Can you answer what Illinois might be able to provide to those parents in terms of a child care?
 For example, we've created emergency child care in fact, all across the state, that's something we did weeks and weeks ago because of the essential workers and.
 Needs and there is capacity out there, and we of course want to encourage people to become emergency child care providers.
 So to the extent people will go back to work and their kids will be at home during the school year.
 You know that is one option for people of course during the summer people, you know who normally work and their kids would be not in school during the summer.
 they'll have that same problem if the kids were otherwise gonna go to some congregate setting up a day camp or something else and so we wanna.
 To provide that kind of child care capability, all across the state, okay, my next question there are people who are still going into their places of employment, obviously, such as nursing homes and things and many of these businesses they are doing their due diligence.
 They're checking temperatures right at the door, but is that enough given the fact that Covid- 19 can be a symptomatic for so long.
 Yeah.
 The answer is no.
 it's not enough and what we really need is rapid testing in all of those settings, the ones that you're describing congregate settings but Everybody where else what we really would like is for people to be able to get tested on a very regular basis until we have a treatment and a vaccine.
 you wanna know that people who are coming to work with you are not covered positive.
 the challenge I think is you are well aware is that for you know for the weeks and weeks now a couple of months that have gone by the understanding by the scientist and the doctors has evolved because we've come to they've come to see.
 Example, what you're describing people can be a symptomatic and pass along Covid- 19.
 That wasn't something that the CDC, for example or the federal government or anybody really was saying a month and a half ago.
 and so, as we learn more, you know the evolution of how we think about how to get back to work changes, but you're raising an excellent point.
 We need more than just a temperature.
 check at the door right now.
 That's the only thing that we really have to doing a wellness check for workers that walk in and doing a temperature check, which is you know, takes a moment to I have a question from a colleague.
 Michelle Garda from ABC seven wants to know earlier this week, The state reported the death of a teenager in Cook County are you familiar with this case if so, is this the state's first teenage death and can you tell us if the teenager in question had underlying conditions?
 I don't have that information at my disposal at this time, I know we have had people of all age groups die.
 I just wanna be clear in terms of the definition of people dying of covid- 19.
 The case definition is is very simplistic.
 It means at the time of death.
 it was a covered positive diagnosis.
 so that means that if you were in hospice and had already been given, you know a few weeks to live and then you also were found to have covered that would be counted Cover death.
 It means that if it technically, if even if you died of a clear alternate cause, but you had covered at the same time, it's still listed as a cover death.
 so everyone who's listed as a cover debt doesn't mean that that was the cause of the death, but they had covered at the time of death.
 I hope that's helpful.
 Can I follow up question How on usual is it to do you're looking at the numbers to have a teenager?
 die from this well?
 I will say that we know for the pediatric literature that pediatric deaths from Covenant are low.
 I know that.
 We get older so obviously a two -year old and a 17 year-old are all considered pediatric patients, but we know that the 17 year-old has the physiology much closer to an adult than say an infinite a baby.
 And so, as I know that you know it former hospitals that I've worked within pediatricians that I've talked to they have seen severe illness in older an older pediatric patients as they look more like adults than than than Governor Will Jones from ABC seven.
 I have two questions.
 the first one is for you and then the second one is for Doctor K. The first question is what can you tell people who are anxious about when this is going to be over well?
 The first thing I would say is that we're frankly, I think everybody is anxious because we don't know so much right.
 There's there's a lot that still needs to be learned here and we don't have the treatment or the vaccine to to really deal.
 You know you know in in a a way that will make people feel safer but as we're learning more and sharing information all across the country and as the CDC provides more information as our Department of Public Health does its work.
 I think we're you know, we're getting a greater understanding day by day and people should feel I think somewhat more confident today than they did weeks ago and let me give you one example of why I think I may have mentioned.
 In the last couple of days but the report out of a Chicago hospital was the University of Chicago that the trials on Ram decipher one of the 70 different treatments that are in trials right now that the reports are very positive.
 Now.
 That doesn't mean that the study is completed and that this is an approved treatment, but the idea that there's something that's gotten positive results and that, at least is rumored to be one of the.
 that may be available I think that is some really great news right that's something to add on to as we see the bending of the curve here in the state.
 If you can have a treatment right and then you see the beginning of a decline of cases and a decline of hospitalizations, having a treatment makes an enormous difference, so people should start to feel more confident seeing that our amazing private sector researchers and that's really what's happening many of the.
 Companies the pharmaceutical companies as well as our our NHL, scientists you know that collectively the United States is the greatest country in the world and indeed because we are so innovative and in the face of this pandemic, the idea that we're you know 70 treatments are in trials and a few of them look like they might be effective in just a couple of months.
 that's pretty amazing.
 and this is where Doctor Zach we've been in this stay-at-home order for several weeks.
 Now, some people are wondering how is this virus still spreading no well.
 I think we have to say that we know that there are people.
 It's not like we're on complete where everyone is in their homes.
 People have to move around.
 I think what we do know is that the reason that the virus has slowed down its transmission in our state is because of the state head home order.
 We don't have a situation where it can be a hundred percent because not every single person is at home.
 Let's look around this room, so there is still a transmission that can go on.
 It's absolutely.
 Than what it was previous I don't know if you wanna get into the statistic statistical terms, but when we think about epidemiology and transmission of disease, the are not value, which maybe some people have heard of basically is an indicator of like how many people a person who has the disease will infect.
 And so we think at the beginning when we were in that exponential growth phase, the number might have been three point five and so just if you think for a moment if one person can infect three and then each of those people infect three additional.
 And then those people will go on to.
 I mean within 10 rounds you get to 60000 people right and so obviously we've brought that way down.
 We think our are not is is low in the ones and so the transmission has slow tremendously.
 But of course, it's not enough to have completely made sure that it died out and ultimately what you want is a are not value.
 That's below one and that that begins to you know have real decrease of of infection rates.
 Hi Amy Jacobson WWW.
 Chicago have a question for you and a question for the doctors while I won't hog the mic first of all I wanted to wrap up.
 We're not in phase one cuz phase one, but Doctor Fouche had after I left movie yesterday, I realized restaurants and gyms so you're ready.
 Hopefully we can get there definitely agree the PPP that's landing tomorrow.
 Where is it coming from and what do you wanna say to the Fbi agent here in Chicago who stopped your procurement team from wasting 20 - six million dollars of our tax dollars?
 because there's a lot of scams going on not just in Illinois all over the country and they were about to purchase 20 - six million dollars or pay a company that money Company and what was the first question sorry about about when he wears where is it coming from?
 Oh, it's coming from China from as you I think as you will not know, but but you should know that at least I don't think that this one is coming from Shanghai you should know that most of the PPE that is manufactured in the world and again we're talking about disposable PPE not the you know the fabric masks and other things which are much more expensive but the disposable PPC, which is needed by health care workers.
 And first responders that that comes from China and so this is coming from China.
 Also I I don't recall right now where this particular shipment is coming from exactly in China as the scams, oh my goodness, I mean I've talked to other governors.
 Yeah.
 yeah, as you could as you can imagine you've seen it all online if anybody's even looked up for any PPE on their own and you know the scams are everywhere and you can imagine you know, big ones and small ones right and people have tried to contact us to to get us signed up.
 you know delivery of PPE that doesn't exist and we've had to fair at those things out.
 We've definitely been working with law enforcement also with the attorney General.
 I think I mentioned that yesterday that you know we need our attorney general on it, but if you're talking about an international seller, but you know we don't we're not allowed in the state of Illinois to purchase directly from any international provider and so we use an an either an Illinois company or a US company to go find that for us and so sometimes in that process you know they're they're can.
 You know bad actors and and we definitely rely upon the Fbi and our state police and our attorney general to help fair those things out for us.
 Thank you very much.
 Thank you.
 Doctor have one quick question.
 First of all.
 Thank you for all that you've done and your dedication to this.
 I think it would be helpful for all of us.
 Illinois If we knew cuz every day when you come out with numbers how many of those are active cases, how many are in ICU, how many have recovered cuz I think that would help maybe some people sleep better at night cuz I know we're gonna have larger numbers cuz more people are being tested right so.
 How do I break this down?
 So in terms of you know we've tried to give some recovery data.
 I think on Tuesdays, I've been trying to give recovery data and have tasked my team with surveying people who have been positive with the electronic survey and so I know last week with the electronic survey, they followed up with calls for people who didn't respond and it ended up that people after 20 - 28 days, 760 - nine percent.
 I want it was a rounding up to 70.
 Of people said that they were recovered.
 It was obviously a little bit lower for 20 - one days and 14 days and you know just seven days after it was like in the forties, but it got up to 60 - nine percent after 20 - eight days overall again the denominator of the number of people who have contracted the disease is not clear because we've tested who we've tested, but we know that there are many other people who have had the disease Diagnosis but of the people that we did have a laboratory confirmed test our hospitalization data is something in the you know 20 - five to 30 - two percent range and I think we know that the ICU rate is five percent so we know that most people do very very, very, very, very well.
 we know that people recover after you know several weeks I do I do I the agents of doom and gloom people do recover from this disease, but we still have to have a special eye for the people who will have a harder course and those other people over 60 - five.
 Those are the people who have Co morbid conditions and just to repeat them again, hypertension coronary artery disease.
 Other heart disease, COPD diabetes obesity people who are recovering from cancer who otherwise immuno compromised.
 Let's not forget that pregnant women are people who were recently pregnant Liver patients hemodialysis patients I hope I didn't forget anyone on the list, but any of those people are higher risk and so those are the people that we're trying to be a really focused on as there is no treatment and there is no vaccine so that we can prevent these additional severe morbidity and mortality.
 Hi Governor Mike Pucci Ali from Cbs two so Vice President Pence says Five million tests should be completed by the end of the month.
 He calls it a success.
 Nancy Pelosi was on Fox News this morning.
 She gives President Trump and when it comes to testing so who's right and where do we stand in Illinois right now?
 well, let me let me respond to the question about testing.
 you know I've been frustrated when I hear the White House talk about testing capacity versus tests.
 They they seem to use those interchangeably.
 Those are very different testing capacity is the capability of machines that exist in your state that could possibly run a test.
 But as you know well cuz I've talked about a lot over the last you know couple month and a half that you need a lot of other things in order to actually have a test result, you need a swab to take the specimen you need the viral transport medium to put the specimen in so that it can be transported safely.
 you need the.
 Extractor so that the process can run properly and you need the machine and all by the way you need, lab technicians and a lot of them because we're doing a lot more testing than normally gets done because we have this novel Corona virus that we have to test for so when you think about testing capacity, you know they say well, we have the ability to do exit number of tests.
 Well, yeah testing capacity is large, but if you don't have all of those items, which by the way none of the States have all of those items that they need You know you can't you actually use the testing capacity that's available so very frustrating look today.
 Where are we what you saw today we announced you know 6000 specimens were announced today that we're that were you know tested and you know you saw the 1100 and some positives among the 6000. we have a fluctuating number every day.
 It's gonna be different each day because you get different reports.
 I'll tell you today, we got no report from one of the largest commercial laboratories in the country and so that's that's a number of tests that were obviously done and completed, but never reported to us because they didn't report it to anyone in the country at you know what why that is?
 I can't tell you but you will get those test tomorrow and hopefully we'll get all of the tests that were done yesterday reported tomorrow and test today reported tomorrow but we're a little bit at the.
 Of these commercial laboratories, now we control our own state laboratories, which are doing amazing jobs and then we have terrific hospitals here in the state that are doing a lot of testing as well.
 I spoke with Doctor Howard Herman from UIC right before I came here and he said the problem with a lot of what you've done is that you've made the procedures and the policies optional, he said, For example, masks why not order the use of masks so I haven't been.
 I appreciate that and and.
 And he's right, I didn't order it and I have considered doing that and still I'm considering doing that.
 as you know, I came out strongly and told people that they should be wearing masks and every time I talk about this, you know wash your hands wipe their surfaces.
 Make sure you're wearing a mask when you go outside, but have I put an order in yet No, But you're foreshadowing that you know I spoke with I I mentioned this also a few days ago that that one of the Republican state representatives Mark Batman.
 Has been very helpful providing ideas and that is one idea that he suggested now he wants it just his suggestion was just for retail establishments like grocery stores and the essential workers all wearing them and people who go to those locations as well.
 that that's a good first step for example, but I don't disagree with the comments of the doctor.
 You know it may be that the right answer is everybody wears a mask no matter where they are outside or perhaps everybody.
 As a mask, if they know that they're going to be in an area with other people, we've got time for one more from the room and then we gotta get online.
 Okay go ahead.
 You do have one okay.
 yeah, go ahead Mike.
 So if you do decide to do that order when might that happen?
 Well, you know that we're look we obviously April 30 is when our stay-at-home order expires and so we're looking at how we might make adjustments and so obviously between now and then we'll be making some decisions about that and putting that forward, but I do wanna double down on the suggestion of the doctor on your suggestion by the virtue of the question and and you know.
 My own feeling, which is everybody should be wearing him asking my opinion out when they're outdoors when they know they're gonna see people particularly you know as it warms up here.
 you know we want people to be safe and they're keeping everybody else safe to be clear when they're wearing a mask everybody.
 When you wear a mask, you're keeping other people safe and they're keeping you safe when they're wearing a mask.
 Okay.
 This is from Amanda Vicki at WT W The Lupus Society of Illinois has a petition asking you to prohibit doctors from preemptively prescribing hydroxy chloroquine as Covid- 19, as it's causing a shortage of the drug.
 Will you do that?
 Why are why not?
 yeah?
 you know there's been a lot of discussion about hydrochloric when by I know by the President, he's pushed it a lot and then it therefore is being overused without a lot of testing to back it up.
 you know the the decision by doctors about whether to use something that's off brand.
 you know something that's allowed and permitted.
 It's an FDA approved drug and then using it off brand Those are decisions that are typically made by doctors.
 and it's the only way you can get Hydrochloric win unless you're getting it illegally from some source somewhere and and so you know, I don't disagree that it shouldn't be used off brand unless you really know that it works and right now we just don't know that it works.
 This is from Rich Miller at Capitol Facts.
 This is mainly a federal issue, but with so many meat processing plants, shutting down or experiencing spikes in cases, is there a state role in improving these conditions?
 There is indeed.
 The federal government, of course regulates those those plants but it is also the responsibility of the state to keep the people who work there who live in our state, of course, safe and of course the businesses in our state as well.
 so we have worked with local health departments in fact, on making sure that they are using PPE in those facilities and making sure that the people who work in those facilities are safe and not forced to work if they are not feeling well if they have any symptoms at all, and some plant.
 Are very good about following all of those and some we've had to you know talk to have discussions with and you know have have threatened to to force closure.
 Linda London at WBZ is asking you to comment on the data Your office just released regarding long-term care facilities.
 Could you reiterate what specifically the state is doing to control the outbreak and nursing facilities?
 Yeah, I'd like to ask Doctor Zak to talk more about that.
 We knew even before we got into having the large numbers of long-term care facilities with cases that that would be one of our hardest areas.
 We know that congregate settings by definition.
 it's hard to be able to do the the physical or social distancing and be able to separate and isolate people.
 so you know our prisons and our long-term care facilities and any kind of group home setting, but even before there were recommendations from CDC.
 we came.
 We had a a weekend as we saw what was happening in Washington.
 you know I was immediately on the phone with the state health officer from Washington and with their clinical team to try to see what lessons we could learn from from the practices and from the situations that evolved there and so we had a weekend where we assembled the team and came up with our new heightened restrictions and guidance.
 And so that is when we implemented.
 I think end of end of February, maybe.
 Of March, where we said that there will be no visitation that there will be pre shift assessments that there would be increased monitoring of patients that you know all the extra cleaning making sure people had PPE so that started early but even with those practices we've obviously seen cases so now is in an unheated attempt to take more aggressive measures.
 we probably started this weekend but definitely.
 The deliveries will continue next well.
 This is a new week.
 We'll continue this week where we are sending testing supplies to different facilities.
 We're trying to identify neighborhoods or areas where there's a lot of Covid- 19 in the area, and so as it's a hot zone.
 if you will, we're worried about the facility in the midst of that and so we're sending materials for testing to those locations so that we can do aggressive testing.
 Of the staff and people who would be in that facility so that we can see if we can identify cases who would potentially be in that facility with that high-risk population.
 We're also making request for additional support so that we can have more people in the facilities.
 We know that staffing can be an issue in many of these facilities and so having enough people to ensure that all the residents are are attended to in our assess with the regularity to make sure that there's someone at the door who can do the pre shift assessment.
 we also.
 Taking advantage of our our consultants, we have a team of infectious disease consultants with UC as well as you know, IDP HSV infection control prevention is who are working directly with facilities.
 we're trying to I mean there's a lot of you know we have 1100 facilities in the country but trying to target the ones that are most at risk, in addition to the ones who already have established cases.
 We're really trying to be proactive, giving everyone the support they need working with the local health departments to make sure that the facilities are provided the PE because if they don't have the appropriate PPE is really hard to contain the spread.
 so a lot of effort is going in.
 We're working with labor unions, we're working with the nursing home industry they've gotten additional funds from HFS in order to insertion cases set up covered wings or covered institutions.
 So again there's a multi.
 Pronged effort I know the feds had already given out a lot of money millions of dollars to nursing facilities to increase and staff up.
 and so all of these measures are hopefully trying to contain what is already a very difficult and challenging situation.
 Dave Dolla WTAE XXX Governor You have gotten attention nationally during this pandemic.
 How does the state benefit and how do you benefit from this height and profile?
 The most important thing that's happened?
 is we've actually gotten more from the federal government as a result of my you know having a.
 Slightly higher profile or speaking out nationally, I'm very pleased with what we've you know received from the Army, The army Core of Engineers, Fema H S, and I continue to have dialogue behind the scenes.
 Directly about our needs so that we can get them fulfilled whatever it is the federal government can do for us but you know you've heard me public ly talk about some of the things that the White House has promised and hasn't been able to deliver but you know and I'm I'm I'll continue to do whatever I have to do to make sure that we get what we need in the state of Illinois Mike from Quincy.
 How can Mass testing be a pillar of our recovery Recovery plan when the Centers for Infectious Disease Research and policy says there won't be enough reagen needed to conduct those tests.
 Well, this is I think.
 Example of the challenge of not having invoked the Defense production Act, we if we had done that if we had gotten, you know the chemical companies and and the companies who produce reagen to you know to essentially focus all of their resources on delivering for the States I we could have been further along, but I think all the companies that produce Reagen not to mention all the other items that I mentioned that are part of the supply chain.
 you know we're all of those items are in short supply and all of those items.
 I'm fighting hard for I I will say I'm very pleased that we've been able to do more than some other States recently to in order to cave all the supplies to ramp up our testing and then you know we need to actually ramp it up with using all of those pieces of the supply chain together she a political.
 What would you recommend as Senators Durbin and Duckworth and Representative Davis, who are on the President's task force to open the economy?
 What to address first?
 Well, I mean I you know, I'm partial to the industries that are you know, particularly important here in the state of Illinois.
 so you know I I think one thing I I think has been a very challenging for people is is you know how are we protecting and this is very important?
 How are we protecting the workers and the customers in each of the retail and wholesale and warehouse situations?
 you know we're a.
 The supply chain hub of the nation here in Illinois.
 we have a lot of warehouses and distribution not to mention manufacturing and other things.
 but how do we protect the workers and the customers and and give guidance more than just you know, six feet apart and a mask but by industry I'm working on this myself, but you know this is a problem that every state that is similar to ours or every industry like the industries that we have here in Illinois is trying to.
 With so, I hope that they will address that this will be our last question.
 Jim from Rock River Times asks now that we're seeing more grocery store workers infected with Covid- 19, should shoppers worry that they will be infected by touching items they purchase and should shoppers wipe down items that they buy at stores.
 They absolutely should wipe down items that they buy at the stores.
 I would suggest to everybody.
 There are a couple of very good and well thought out demonstration videos and articles about what you should do when you go to the grocery store with.
 Buy things you bring them home how you should handle that when you get home, everything really needs to be wiped down and whatever it is you were carrying the groceries in needs to immediately be thrown away or you know if it can be wiped down great but but you need to get it out of your kitchen and make sure that it's out of the you know reach of anybody who would touch it and therefore possibly be infected by something that's remaining on those items but it can be done.
 And you know and and again there are lots of good instructional videos and articles about that.
 Alright.
 Thanks for running.
 Yup.
 You have a number of choices using the tools described below.
 Some cookies are required in order to use Facebook.
 One of the ways Audience Network shows relevant ads is by using your ad preferences to determine which ads you may be interested in seeing.
 This helps us do things such as give you a more personalised experience on Facebook.
 As of 5 October 2020, you may find additional information about the controls offered by popular browsers at the links below.
 Certain parts of Facebook Products may not work properly if you have disabled browser cookies.
 You can review your cookie controls at any time.
 Check your connection and try again.
