This is to counter that.
 Accounting firm KPMG validated the algorithm and had representatives attend the event early Sunday morning."
 All that set the stage for Kendrick to be counted as the milestone passenger.
 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution describes the scene from his arrival, writing that Kendrick “stepped off his flight wearing blue jeans ... and a bemused expression as he was greeted by dark-suited dignitaries, airport and airline workers and even the drumline from Tri-Cities High School.”BOOKMARK: Go directly to the Today in the Sky homepageAtlanta Mayor Kasim Reed and a gaggle of TV media crews also were there on a red carpet to greet Kendrick upon his arrival in Atlanta.But Kendrick was more than a publicity figure; he also walked away with prizes worth tens of thousands of dollars -- all for his good luck in being counted as the Atlanta's one millionth passenger.
 His prizes include a new car – a Nissan Altima – as well as a $500 gift card and two round-trip tickets on Delta good for any destination served by the carrier.
 "That's a very big surprise," Kendrick tells the Journal-Constitution.
 "I have no clue where I'm going to go.
 Probably to Disneyland.”An an industrial construction worker, Kendrick was traveling to Iowa via Atlanta for work when he was tabbed by the airport.
 And he apparently had some time to reconsider the use of his free tickets since talking to the Journal-Constitution on Sunday.“I’ve seen a lot of the United States, so Australia is definitely in the mix.
 Dubai does sound pretty good, too.
 Surpassing the 100 million passenger milestone is only like to cement the airport’s reputation as the world’s busiest.Still, that milestone apparently came as something of a surprise.
 Airport officials tell WXIA TV of Atlanta they hadn’t expected to crack 100 million passengers for the year, but that the airport did so after a strong end-of-year push kept the passenger count climbing.Overall, the airport’s 2015 passenger traffic was up about 5% as compared to 2014, says Hartsfield-Jackson general manager Miguel Southwell.Atlanta, of course, is anchored by hometown carrier Delta Air Lines.
 The nation’s second-biggest carrier operates its busiest hub at the airport, with the local and connecting passenger traffic combining to give Atlanta a higher passenger count than bigger metro areas elsewhere.Also aiding Atlanta is that the city is one of the largest on the continent with just a single airport for commercial passenger flights.
 Chicago, Dallas and Houston -- for example -- each have two major airports.
 Still, Atlanta continued its nearly two-decade strangled hold on the "world's busiest" title as determined by passenger count, which is regarded by most industry observers as the best barometer in saying which airport is the "busiest.
 "But there could be more headwinds on the horizon.
