Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                  Vaccine Safety             Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                            CDC Statement: 2004 MMR and Autism Study     Minus     Related Pages     DeStefano F, Karapurkar Bhasin T, Thompson WW, Yeargin-Allsopp M, Boyle C. Age at First Measles-Mumps-Rubella Vaccination in Children with Autism and School-Matched Control Subjects: A Population-Based Study in Metropolitan Atlantaexternal icon Pediatrics 2004 Feb;113(2):259-66.
 CDC shares with parents and others great concern about the number of children with autism spectrum disorder.
 CDC is committed to continuing to provide essential data on autism, search for factors that put children at risk for autism and look for possible causes.
 While doing so, we work to develop resources that help identify children with autism as early as possible so they can benefit from intervention services.
 CDC’s studyexternal icon about age at first Measles-Mumps-Rubella (MMR) vaccination and autism, published in Pediatrics in 2004, included boys and girls from different ethnic groups, including black children.
 The manuscript presented the results on two sets of children:  All children who were initially recruited for the study, and the subset of children who had a Georgia birth certificate.
 Access to the information on the birth certificates allowed researchers to assess more complete information on race as well as other important characteristics, including possible risk factors for autism such as the child’s birth weight, mother’s age, and education.
 This information was not available for the children without birth certificates; hence CDC study did not present data by race on black, white, or other race children from the whole study sample.
 It presented the results on black and white/other race children from the group with birth certificates.
 The study looked at different age groups: children vaccinated by 18 months, 24 months, and 36 months.
 The findings revealed that vaccination between 24 and 36 months was slightly more common among children with autism, and that association was strongest among children 3-5 years of age.
 The authors reported this finding was most likely a result of immunization requirements for preschool special education program attendance in children with autism.
 The data CDC collected for this study continue to be available for analysis by others.
 CDC welcomes analysis by others that can be submitted for peer-review and publication.
 For more information on how to access this public-use dataset please go to the this webpage.
 Additional studies and a more recent rigorous review by the Institute of Medicine have found that MMR vaccine does not increase the risk of autism.
 Vaccines protect the health of children in the United States so well that most parents today have never seen first-hand the devastating consequences of diseases now stopped by vaccines.
 However, our 2019 measles count is the highest number since measles was declared eliminated in 2000.
 We do not want to lose any opportunity to protect all of our children when we have the means to do so.
 Top of Page          
 					Page last reviewed: August 24, 2020 Content source: 	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion (DHQP)         homeVaccine Safety  Safety Information by Vaccineplus icon  Chickenpox (Varicella) Vaccines Diphtheria, Tetanus, and Pertussis Vaccines Haemophilus influenza Type b (Hib) Vaccines Hepatitis A Vaccines Hepatitis B Vaccines Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccineplus icon  Questions about HPV Vaccine Safety   Influenza (Flu) Vaccines Measles, Mumps, Rubella (MMR) Vaccinesplus icon  MMR Safety Studies   Measles, Mumps, Rubella, Varicella (MMRV) Vaccinesplus icon  VSD MMRV Safety Study MMRV Safety Studies MMRV and Febrile Seizures   Meningococcal Vaccines Pneumococcal Vaccines Rotavirus Vaccine Shingles (Herpes Zoster) Vaccines Smallpox Vaccine   Questions and Concernsplus icon  Adjuvants Autismplus icon  CDC Statement: 2004 Pediatrics Paper on MMR and Autism   Fainting after Vaccination Febrile Seizures Guillain-Barre Syndrome Multiple Vaccinations at Once Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) Thimerosalplus icon  CDC Study (2010 ) on Thimerosal and Risk of Autism Thimerosal FAQs Related Scientific Articles Infant and Environmental Exposures to Thimerosal 2007 Study Timeline: Thimerosal in Vaccines   Vaccines During Pregnancy FAQs FAQs about Vaccine Recalls Historical Vaccine Safety Concernsplus icon  GBS and Menactra Vaccine FAQs Gardasil Vaccine Recall (2013) FAQs Hep B and Multiple Sclerosis FAQs Hib Vaccine Recall (2007) Summary Narcolepsy Following Pandemrix Influenza Vaccination in Europe     Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon  Talking to Patients About Vaccine Safety Reporting Adverse Events Resources for Healthcare Providers   Information for Parents and Caregiversplus icon  Vaccine Safety FAQs   Researchplus icon  Publications Institute of Medicine (IOM) Reports ISO Scientific Agenda   Ensuring Safetyplus icon  Overview, History, and How It Works Side Effects and Adverse Events Vaccine Safety Monitoringplus icon  Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS)plus icon  How to Access Data from CDC’s VAERS WONDER System Print and Web Material VAERS Publications   CISAplus icon  CISA Resources for Healthcare Professionals Evaluation Clinical Research Studies Historical Background 2001-12 Publications Technical Reports   Vaccine Safety Datalink (VSD)plus icon  Accessing Data from Vaccine Safety Datalink Data Sharing Guidelines Vaccine Safety Datalink Publications   Emergency Preparedness   Vaccine Safety Partners   About ISO     Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:  Email Address  What's this?
 Submit                HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
