Some fired cops would still draw pay under committee plan By Patrick Marley of the Journal Sentinel Published on: 6/3/2011  Madison -- Milwaukee taxpayers would have to pay wages and benefits for some fired cops while they appealed their dismissals under a provision Republicans tucked into the state budget early Friday.The measure adopted by the Legislature’s Joint Finance Committee on a party-line 11-4 vote also put some limits on union negotiations over health care by firefighters and police officers -- a move that could further inflame the ongoing fight over collective bargaining for public workers.For years, the practice of continuing to pay cops after they were fired -- in some cases for years -- drew controversy in Milwaukee, but lawmakers began changing that policy in 2008.Republicans who run the committee voted shortly after midnight Friday to roll that back.
 Police officers would have their pay cut off immediately upon their dismissal only if they were fired for conduct that also resulted in felony charges or Class A or Class B misdemeanor charges.For those who violated department rules or engaged in behavior that did not result in serious charges, they would have to be paid while they fought their dismissal.The issue drew public attention after officers continued to receive their paychecks after they were fired for their roles in the October 2004 beating of Frank Jude Jr., who was assaulted by off-duty police as he left a party at an officer’s home.
 That launched a years-long fight in the Legislature.In 2008, the law was changed to cut off pay for officers as soon as they were fired for behavior that resulted in serious charges.
 In 2009, lawmakers went further so that pay would be immediately cut off for officers who were dismissed for other reasons.Friday’s change would roll it back to the 2008 law.Democrats expressed outrage at the plan.
 "It’s probably not a coincidence it’s the middle of the night and we’re dealing with this," said Rep. Tamara Grigsby (D-Milwaukee).The measure was written by the co-chairs of the committee, Rep. Robin Vos (R-Rochester) and Sen. Alberta Darling (R-River Hills).
 Darling is one of six Republican senators targeted for recall because of her stance on collective bargaining.
 Three Democratic senators are also being singled out for recall.Vos said the measure on police pay was adopted because Milwaukee is the only city that allows its police chief to fire officers "for basically no cause.
 ""That’s an awful lot of power we don’t grant to any other police chief in the state," Vos said.It was folded into the state budget the committee plans to deliver to the Legislature by Saturday.
 The two houses are expected to pass the budget this month.Another element of the plan would prevent police officers and firefighters from collectively bargaining over the design and choice of their health-care plans.
 Current employees would continue be able to bargain over how much they pay for health care.But under another change the committee made, newly hired police officers and firefighters would have to pay more for their pensions and health care.
 In March, the Legislature passed a bill requiring most public workers -- but not police, troopers and firefighters -- to pay more for their health care and pensions.That measure remains tied up in court, but Republicans say they are committed to making public workers pay more for their benefits.
 The measure the committee adopted Friday would continue to spare current police officers, troopers and firefighters from the requirement to pay more, but would require future hires to pay the larger amounts.
