Skip to main content Skip to FDA Search Skip to in this section menu Skip to footer links          An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know       The .gov means it’s official.Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil.
 Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site.
 The site is secure.
 The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
 U.S. Food and Drug Administration        Search     Menu       Search FDA   Submit search          Featured  Contact FDA FDA Guidance Documents Recalls, Market Withdrawals and Safety Alerts Press Announcements Warning Letters Advisory Committees En Español      Products  Food Drugs Medical Devices Radiation-Emitting Products Vaccines, Blood, and Biologics Animal and Veterinary Cosmetics Tobacco Products    Topics  About FDA Combination Products Regulatory Information Safety Emergency Preparedness International Programs News and Events Training and Continuing Education Inspections and Compliance Science and Research    Information For  Consumers Patients Industry Health Professionals Federal, State and Local Officials          In this section:      Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER)                    Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER)          CBER Offices &amp; Divisions CBER Vision &amp; Mission CBER Reports CBER Ombudsman CBER Product Jurisdiction               Home   About FDA   FDA Organization   Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER)   What Are "Biologics" Questions and Answers        Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER)           What Are "Biologics" Questions and Answers    Share   Tweet   Linkedin   Email   Print          What is a biological product?
 Biological products include a wide range of products such as vaccines, blood and blood components, allergenics, somatic cells, gene therapy, tissues, and recombinant therapeutic proteins.
 Biologics can be composed of sugars, proteins, or nucleic acids or complex combinations of these substances, or may be living entities such as cells and tissues.
 How do biological products differ from conventional drugs?
 In contrast to most drugs that are chemically synthesized and their structure is known, most biologics are complex mixtures that are not easily identified or characterized.
 Biological products, including those manufactured by biotechnology, tend to be heat sensitive and susceptible to microbial contamination.
 Therefore, it is necessary to use aseptic principles from initial manufacturing steps, which is also in contrast to most conventional drugs.
