NewsNBC News NOWNightly NewsMeet the PressDatelineMSNBCTODAYPresidential resultsElections live blogFull coverageShare this —SearchSectionsCORONAVIRUSU.S.
 But articles and posts around the world warning of the phenomenon have garnered millions of shares on Facebook.NBC News contacted several police departments that issued warnings about door-to-door scammers.
 None said they had substantiated reports of such activity, and many said they were pushed to respond because of concern on social media.Full coverage of the coronavirus outbreakThe rapid and international dissemination of the warnings shows how false or misleading information can end up in legitimate channels, even those that are looking to serve the public interest, misinformation experts said.The hoax offers regionalized versions of the same narrative, with the fictitious robbers posing as officials from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in American iterations and from the Red Cross or the U.K.'s National Health Service in others.
 Similar hoaxes predate the coronavirus, including some that used the coming U.S. census in place of the coronavirus.Variations of the alleged hoax popped on social media up in early March.
 They were amplified and legitimized by police departments that issued warnings despite little to no evidence of door-to-door scammers.Claire Wardle, executive director of First Draft, a nonprofit dedicated to tackling misinformation, said government agencies, including police departments, need to be "triple checking" the information they release to avoid eroding public trust.Coronavirus misinformation: When a pandemic leads to an ‘infodemic’March 13, 202003:44"Governments are worried about the economic impact, health supplies and food logistics, but I don't think government agencies are prepared for real-time debunking," she said.Wardle said many of the current coronavirus hoaxes rely on familiar false narratives.
 "We are seeing a lot of templated hoaxes right now," Wardle said.
 "If they worked before, why come up with something new?
 "The Piscataway Township Police Department in New Jersey was among the first police departments to release a statement on its Facebook page, on March 10, advising residents that "representatives from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are not going door-to-door to conduct coronavirus-related surveillance.
 "The department acknowledged that there had been no reported incidents in the area but said it was responding to social media posts about such a scam.Other New Jersey police departments followed suit, and the story was picked up by the Courier News newspaper of Bridgewater.
 In total, the posts have gotten hundreds of thousands of shares on Facebook in the last week.Since the police reports went viral across Facebook in the U.S., the rumors have evolved to include references to the scammers' wearing protective clothing.
 "These people are pretending to test for COVID and going door to door," one person in Pasadena, California, wrote on the hyperlocal social network Nextdoor, along with a picture of four people wearing what appear to be white hazmat suits.
 "They are imposters and are robbing homes.
 DO NOT OPEN your door to these people.
 "The city of Pasadena subsequently posted a scam alert on Twitter.
 A spokeswoman said the city had a "few reports on one block but couldn't locate the person they were referring to.
 "Police departments in New York, Texas, California, Ohio, Florida and Arkansas issued warnings that were picked up by local media.
 Most of them referred to the CDC, but some, including one in Kent County, Michigan, said scammers were pretending to be from the Red Cross.Download the NBC News app for full coverage and alerts about the coronavirus outbreakThe Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office in Florida tweeted a "scam alert" Thursday saying "people in white lab coats, masks &amp; gloves are knocking on doors stating that they're from the Department of Health of the CDC."
 Palm Beach city police issued a similar warning Friday.
 "With this rumor, there are invisible intruders, along with next-level fears of who might be a carrier and who isn't," Donovan said.
 "These rumors get dangerous with that added fear and suspicion.
 "CORRECTION (March 23, 2020, 5:50 p.m.
 ET): An earlier version of this article misspelled the first name New York's attorney general.
 She is Letitia James, not Letifia.
 Read headlines covering cyber attacks, top new tech products, tech tips \u0026 more.
 Then Facebook stepped in.
 It's no accident, experts say.
 That didn't stop its ballot counting.
 Read headlines covering news on tech companies, new innovations, artificial intelligence, and more.
 Then Facebook stepped in.
 Read headlines covering news on tech companies, new innovations, artificial intelligence, and more.
 Read headlines and watch videos on medicine, mental illness, and more.
 Read headlines covering cyber attacks, top new tech products, tech tips \u0026 more.
 Facebook shut them down.
 But articles and posts around the world warning of the phenomenon have garnered millions of shares on Facebook.
 None said they had substantiated reports of such activity, and many said they were pushed to respond because of concern on social media.
 They were amplified and legitimized by police departments that issued warnings despite little to no evidence of door-to-door scammers.
 ","seo":"NBC News’ Brandy Zadrozny examines the dangerous consequences of the surge of misinformation that is amassing online during the coronavirus pandemic.
 ","tease":"Why is it taking so long to get election results?
 ","social":"Why is it taking so long to get election results?
 NBC News’ Simone Boyce explains why it’s taking longer than we might like to get election results.
 ","tease":"What are the recount rules in the closest battleground states?
 ","social":"What are the recount rules in the closest battleground states?
 In total, the posts have gotten hundreds of thousands of shares on Facebook in the last week.
 \"They are imposters and are robbing homes.
 ET): An earlier version of this article misspelled the first name New York's attorney general.
 She is Letitia James, not Letifia.
 Please check your URL or return to","default":"We appreciate the gravity of this situation.
 Please check your URL or return to","globalcitizen":"Something doesn’t look right.
 Please check your URL or return to","knowyourvalue":"Juggling a few things right now!
 Please check your URL or return to","leftfield":"That shot just doesn’t look right.
 Please check your URL or return to","think":"Looks like you got twisted and turned around.
 Please check your URL or return to","today":"We’re having a ’ruff’ time finding this page.
 ":"How can we improve this page?
 ","Images":"Images","Interests":"Interests","Invalid email":"Invalid email","Jan.":"Jan.","July":"July","June":"June","Just now":"Just now","Key Updates":"Key Updates","LIVE COVERAGE":"LIVE COVERAGE","LIVE NOW":"LIVE NOW","Latest":"Latest","Latest Video":"Latest Video","Less":"Less","Live":"Live","Live Blog":"Live Blog","Load More Posts":"Load More Posts","Loading":"Loading","Loading ...":"Loading ...","Local news around you":"Local news around you","MORE":"MORE","March":"March","May":"May","More":"More","NEW":"NEW","Next":"Next","No":"No","Non Broadcast Live Video":"Non Broadcast Live Video","Nope":"Nope","Nov.":"Nov.","Now Playing":"Now Playing","Oct.":"Oct.","Off":"Off","On the show":"On the show","Opinion":"Opinion","Options":"Options","PAID CONTENT":"PAID CONTENT","PHOTOS":"PHOTOS","POST":"POST","POSTS":"POSTS","Paid Content":"Paid Content","Pinned":"Pinned","Play All":"Play All","Prev":"Prev","Price":"Price","Privacy Policy":"Privacy Policy","READ LESS":"READ LESS","READ MORE":"READ MORE","Rate your overall experience":"Rate your overall experience","Read":"Read","Recommended":"Recommended","Result":"Result","SEE":"SEE","SEE ALL":"SEE ALL","SEE NEW":"SEE NEW","SHOP":"SHOP","SHOPPING CONTENT BY STACKCOMMERCE":"SHOPPING CONTENT BY STACKCOMMERCE","SPONSORED":"SPONSORED","SUBSCRIBE":"SUBSCRIBE","Search":"Search","See All":"See All","See All From The Show":"See All From The Show","See local affiliates":"See local affiliates","See story":"See story","Sept.":"Sept.","Share this":"Share this","Sign Up":"Sign Up","Sign Up For Updates":"Sign Up For Updates","Slideshow":"Slideshow","Source":"Source","Spanish":"Spanish","Sponsored By":"Sponsored By","Submit":"Submit","Tap to Unmute":"Tap to Unmute","Terms of Service":"Terms of Service","The page design helps me find other stories I’m interested in":"The page design helps me find other stories I’m interested in","The page design helps me find other videos I’m interested in":"The page design helps me find other videos I’m interested in","The page design helps me find the content I’m interested in":"The page design helps me find the content I’m interested in","The page design helps me understand the news":"The page design helps me understand the news","The page design makes the article easy to read":"The page design makes the article easy to read","The page design makes the video easy to watch":"The page design makes the video easy to watch","This content was paid for by an advertiser and created by the NBC News Brand Studio.
 The NBC News editorial organization was not involved in its creation or production.
 This content represents the views and opinions of the advertiser, who is responsible for all of the material contained therein.
 Links are not endorsements by NBC News.
 ":"This content was paid for by an advertiser and created by the NBC News Brand Studio.
 The NBC News editorial organization was not involved in its creation or production.
 This content represents the views and opinions of the advertiser, who is responsible for all of the material contained therein.
 Links are not endorsements by NBC News.
 ","This site is protected by recaptcha":"This site is protected by recaptcha","Top Moments":"Top Moments","Top Stories":"Top Stories","Trending":"Trending","Trending Gift Guides":"Trending Gift Guides","UP NEXT":"UP NEXT","Updated":"Updated","VIEW":"VIEW","Videos":"Videos","View the story on Storify":"View the story on Storify","View this graphic on":"View this graphic on","Want a response?
 ":"Want a response?
 ","Watch":"Watch","Watch More":"Watch More","We apologize, this video has expired.
 ":"We apologize, this video has expired.
 ","We apologize, we were unable to find your local news.
 Please try another location.
 ":"We apologize, we were unable to find your local news.
 Please try another location.
 ","What\u0026apos;s this?
 ":"What\u0026apos;s this?
 ","What's this?
 ":"What's this?
 ","Who":"Who","Yea":"Yea","Yes":"Yes","You have been successfully added to our newsletter":"You have been successfully added to our newsletter","Your Email Address":"Your Email Address","Your Video Begins in":"Your Video Begins in","Zip code here":"Zip code here","copied!
