Skip to main content              Main menu       Home ContentCurrent Issue Past Issues Articles by Subject Articles by Type Supplements The Issue in Brief Past Issues in Brief  Info forAuthors Reviewers Media Job Seekers  AboutAnnals of Family Medicine Editorial Staff &amp; Boards Sponsoring Organizations Copyrights &amp; Permissions  EngageEngage  e-Letters (Comments) Subscribe RSS Email Alerts Journal Club  ContactFeedback Contact Us  CareersAssociate Editor Opening Current Opportunities Job Board  COVID-19Preprint Collection Casenotes Blog           User menu       My alerts               Search       Search for this keyword            Advanced search                                                          My alerts                                           Search for this keyword           Advanced Search                  Home ContentCurrent Issue Past Issues Articles by Subject Articles by Type Supplements The Issue in Brief Past Issues in Brief  Info forAuthors Reviewers Media Job Seekers  AboutAnnals of Family Medicine Editorial Staff &amp; Boards Sponsoring Organizations Copyrights &amp; Permissions  EngageEngage  e-Letters (Comments) Subscribe RSS Email Alerts Journal Club  ContactFeedback Contact Us  CareersAssociate Editor Opening Current Opportunities Job Board  COVID-19Preprint Collection Casenotes Blog         Follow annalsfm on Twitter  Visit annalsfm on Facebook                          Review ArticleSystematic Reviews  Accuracy of Signs and Symptoms for the Diagnosis of Acute Rhinosinusitis and Acute Bacterial Rhinosinusitis Mark H. Ebell, Brian McKay, Ariella Dale, Ryan Guilbault and Yokabed Ermias The Annals of Family Medicine March 2019, 17 (2) 164-172; DOI: https://doi.org/10.1370/afm.2354   Mark H. Ebell  1Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, College of Public Health, the University of Georgia, Athens,  GeorgiaFind this author on Google ScholarFind this author on PubMedSearch for this author on this siteFor correspondence:  ebell@uga.eduBrian McKay  1Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, College of Public Health, the University of Georgia, Athens,  GeorgiaFind this author on Google ScholarFind this author on PubMedSearch for this author on this siteAriella Dale  1Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, College of Public Health, the University of Georgia, Athens,  GeorgiaFind this author on Google ScholarFind this author on PubMedSearch for this author on this siteRyan Guilbault  1Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, College of Public Health, the University of Georgia, Athens,  GeorgiaFind this author on Google ScholarFind this author on PubMedSearch for this author on this siteYokabed Ermias  1Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, College of Public Health, the University of Georgia, Athens,  GeorgiaFind this author on Google ScholarFind this author on PubMedSearch for this author on this site             ArticleFigures &amp; DataInfo &amp; MetricseLetters PDF         AbstractPURPOSE To evaluate the accuracy of signs and symptoms for the diagnosis of acute rhinosinusitis (ARS).METHODS We searched Medline to identify studies of outpatients with clinically suspected ARS and sufficient data reported to calculate the sensitivity and specificity.
 Of 1,649 studies initially identified, 17 met our inclusion criteria.
 Acute rhinosinusitis was diagnosed by any valid reference standard, whereas acute bacterial rhinosinusitis (ABRS) was diagnosed by purulence on antral puncture or positive bacterial culture.
 Clinical findings that best rule in ARS are purulent secretions in the middle meatus (positive likelihood ratio [LR+] 3.2) and the overall clinical impression (LR+ 3.0).
 The findings that best rule out ARS are the overall clinical impression (negative likelihood ratio [LR−] 0.37), normal transillumination (LR− 0.55), the absence of preceding respiratory tract infection (LR− 0.48), any nasal discharge (LR− 0.49), and purulent nasal discharge (LR− 0.54).
 Based on limited data, the overall clinical impression (LR+ 3.8, LR− 0.34), cacosmia (fetid odor on the breath) (LR+ 4.3, LR− 0.86) and pain in the teeth (LR+ 2.0, LR− 0.77) are the best predictors of ABRS.
 While several clinical decision rules have been proposed, none have been prospectively validated.CONCLUSIONS Among patients with clinically suspected ARS, only about one-third have ABRS.
 The overall clinical impression, cacosmia, and pain in the teeth are the best predictors of ABRS.
 Clinical decision rules, including those incorporating C-reactive protein, and use of urine dipsticks are promising, but require prospective validation.Key wordssinusitisrhinosinusitisacute sinusitisacute rhinosinusitisINTRODUCTIONAcute rhinosinusitis (ARS) is defined as inflammation of the paranasal sinuses, most often the maxillary sinuses, that is caused by viruses or bacteria and has a duration of less than 6 weeks.1 Acute rhinosinusitis is a common outpatient infection, responsible for over 3 million outpatient visits annually in the United States; the symptoms overlap considerably with that of other upper respiratory tract infections, making accurate diagnosis challenging.2 While 75% of patients with ARS receive an antibiotic, and it is the most common reason for outpatient prescription of antibiotics,2,3 only about one-third with sinus symptoms have a confirmed bacterial pathogen when sinus fluid is cultured.4,5Helping physicians more accurately identify which patients with clinically suspected sinusitis actually have acute bacterial rhinosinusitis (ABRS) could reduce harm from inappropriate antibiotic use.
 PubMed was searched using the search terms (“inter-rater” OR “interrater” OR “kappa”) AND (“sinusitis” OR “sinus”).
 The primary searches occurred in 2017, and were updated in April, 2018.Inclusion Criteria And Quality AssessmentWe included studies of adults and children with suspected ARS or acute respiratory tract infection that reported data for the accuracy of at least 1 sign or symptom.
 One study12 included patients with a clinical diagnosis of ARS for whom their physician recommended antibiotics, but the results were similar to those of studies with broader inclusion criteria.
 All studies took place in the outpatient setting and used radiography, ultrasound, computed tomography (CT), or antral puncture as the reference standard.
 We included studies in which all patients received the same reference standard.
 Studies involving highly specialized patient populations (ie, patients with HIV or odontogenic sinusitis, children with brain cancer, or inpatients) were excluded.
 There were no limits by date of publication or language.Where studies reported findings separately by maxillary, frontal, or ethmoid sinus, only maxillary sinus findings are shown.
 Where individual sinuses as well as results by person are reported, results by person are shown.
 When it was possible to use different cut points (definitions of abnormal) for a test or reference standard, the cut point that yielded the highest diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) was selected.13,14 Where data were reported for 2 time periods (ie, any fever or fever in the last 24 hours) we included the most recent time period in relation to the visit.
 Where results for more than 1 reference standard were reported for the same set of patients, data for the highest quality reference standard are reported (in descending order: positive bacterial culture of antral puncture fluid, antral puncture revealing purulent fluid, magnetic resonance imaging [MRI], CT, ultrasound, and finally radiography).4,15–18 Acute rhinosinusitis was diagnosed when any reference standard was abnormal, and acute bacterial rhinosinusitis when inspection of antral puncture fluid or culture of puncture fluid were consistent with bacterial infection.4,5To evaluate study quality, we used the Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies 2 criteria, adapted for the diagnosis of acute rhinosinusitis (Supplemental Table 2).19 Studies were classified as low risk of bias if all 4 domains were all judged to be low risk of bias.
 Studies with only a single domain at high risk of bias were classified as moderate risk of bias, and all other studies were classified as high risk of bias.Data Extraction and AnalysisEach included study was reviewed by 2 investigators, who extracted data regarding study quality and the accuracy of signs and symptoms.
 Any discrepancies were resolved by discussion to achieve consensus, involving a third investigator if necessary.
 We determined the prevalence of sinusitis for subgroups by age and reference standard using a random effects summary measure.
 Summary measures of accuracy are reported for each sign or symptom.
 The positive likelihood hood ratios (LR+) and negative likelihood ratios (LR−) were the primary measures of diagnostic accuracy.
 A likelihood ratio (LR) near 1.0 means that the test adds little diagnostic information, LRs greater than 1 increase the likelihood of disease, and LRs less than 1 decrease the likelihood of disease.20 The DOR (LR+ divided by LR−) was chosen as an overall measure of discrimination because the small numbers of studies made receiver operating characteristic curves unstable and difficult to interpret in many cases.RESULTSWe identified 1,638 studies after removing duplicates.
 We also searched the reference lists of previous meta-analyses, review articles, and practice guidelines for additional articles, finding an additional 11 studies.
 A total of 1,649 abstracts were screened by 2 reviewers for relevance, 182 full-text articles were accessed, and a final total of 17 studies met our inclusion criteria (Supplemental Figure 1).Study CharacteristicsThe characteristics of the 17 included studies are summarized in Table 1.
 Six were small (fewer than 100 participants), with a range of 30 to 400 participants.
 The Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies 2 framework is summarized in Supplemental Table 2.
 Overall, 4 studies were at low risk of bias, 7 at moderate risk of bias, and 6 at high risk of bias.
 Common threats to validity included failure to use a high-quality reference standard, nonconsecutive sample of patients, and mask the person performing the reference standard to results of the index test.
 For the diagnosis of ABRS, studies using the presence of purulence from antral puncture had a higher prevalence than those using positive culture of antral puncture fluid (49% vs 31%, P
