document.body.className + ' js-enabled' : 'js-enabled');   Skip to main content        Tell us whether you accept cookies We use cookies to collect information about how you use GOV.UK.
 We use this information to make the website work as well as possible and improve government services.
 Accept all cookies   Set cookie preferences       You’ve accepted all cookies.
 You can change your cookie settings at any time.
 Hide                     GOV.UK         Show or hide search      Search on GOV.UK      Search                         Coronavirus (COVID-19)         National restrictions in England from 5 November              The UK and EU transition         Take action now for new rules in 2021             Home   Visas and immigration   What you need to do           Pay for UK healthcare as part of your immigration application    Skip to contents of guide      Contents    Overview      Who needs to pay      How much you have to pay   Pay the healthcare surcharge   Refunds           Who needs to pay     You usually need to pay the healthcare surcharge if you’re applying for a visa or immigration application:  for more than 6 months, if you’re applying outside the UK for any length of time, if you’re applying inside the UK  You do not need to pay if you’re applying for a visitor visa or to remain in the UK permanently.
 If you’re from the EU, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein, you only need to pay if you’re applying to come to the UK from 1 January 2021.
 You still need to pay even if you have private medical insurance.
 Who only needs an IHS reference number You still need to use the payment service to get an immigration health surcharge (IHS) reference number but you will not need to pay if:  you’re a child under 18 who has been taken into care by a local authority you’re a relevant civilian employee at NATO or the Australian Department of Defence in the UK (or you’re their dependant)  The service will tell you that you do not have to pay anything and will give you your healthcare surcharge reference number for your application.
 You’ll be able to use the National Health Service (NHS) even if you’re exempt from paying.
 Who does not need to pay or get an IHS reference number You’ll be able to use the NHS without paying the surcharge or getting a reference number if:  you’re applying for indefinite leave to enter or remain you’re a health and care worker who is eligible for a Tier 2 Health and Care visa (or you’re their dependant) you’re a diplomat or a member of a visiting armed forces and not subject to immigration control you’re a dependant of a member of the UK’s armed forces you’re the dependant of a member of another country’s armed forces who is exempt from immigration control you’re a family member of a European national with European Union treaty rights  you’re applying for a visa for the Isle of Man or Channel Islands you’re a British Overseas Territory citizen resident in the Falkland Islands you’re an asylum seeker or applying for humanitarian protection (or you’re their dependant) you’re a domestic worker who has been identified as a victim of slavery or human trafficking  you’re applying for discretionary leave to remain in the UK as someone who has been identified as a victim of slavery or human trafficking (or you’re their dependant) the Home Office’s domestic violence concession applies to you (or you’re their dependant) being made to leave the UK would be against your rights under Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights (or you’re their dependant)   You need to pay the healthcare surcharge if you apply for indefinite leave to remain but are only given limited leave.
 You’ll need to pay before you’re given the leave.
 Visitor visas and short-term visas You do not need to pay the surcharge or get an IHS reference number if you’re applying for a:  visitor visa visa for 6 months or less from outside the UK  You will need to pay for any NHS care you get at the point you use it - unless it’s a service that’s free.
 Previous      : Overview              Next      : How much you have to pay      Print entire guide         Related content      Applying for a visa to come to the UK            Explore the topic  EU, EEA and Commonwealth citizens Family in the UK Study in the UK What you need to do Work in the UK           Is this page useful?
 Maybe         Yes this page is useful        No this page is not useful       Thank you for your feedback       There is something wrong with this page        Close       Help us improve GOV.UK Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
 What were you doing?
 What went wrong?
 Send       Close        Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
 We’ll send you a link to a feedback form.
 It will take only 2 minutes to fill in.
 Don’t worry we won’t send you spam or share your email address with anyone.
 \n\n If you’re from the EU, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein, you only need to pay if you’re applying to come to the UK from 1 January 2021.
 \n\n \n You still need to pay even if you have private medical insurance.
 \n \n\n Who only needs an IHS reference number \n\n You still need to use the payment service to get an immigration health surcharge ( IHS ) reference number but you will not need to pay if: \n\n \n you’re a child under 18 who has been taken into care by a local authority \n you’re a relevant civilian employee at NATO or the Australian Department of Defence in the UK (or you’re their dependant) \n \n\n The service will tell you that you do not have to pay anything and will give you your healthcare surcharge reference number for your application.
 \n\n You’ll be able to use the National Health Service ( NHS ) even if you’re exempt from paying.
 \n\n Who does not need to pay or get an IHS reference number \n\n You’ll be able to use the NHS without paying the surcharge or getting a reference number if: \n\n \n you’re applying for indefinite leave to enter or remain \n you’re a health and care worker who is eligible for a Tier 2 Health and Care visa (or you’re their dependant) \n you’re a diplomat or a member of a visiting armed forces and not subject to immigration control \n you’re a dependant of a member of the UK’s armed forces \n you’re the dependant of a member of another country’s armed forces who is exempt from immigration control \n you’re a family member of a European national with European Union treaty rights \n \n you’re applying for a visa for the Isle of Man or Channel Islands \n you’re a British Overseas Territory citizen resident in the Falkland Islands \n you’re an asylum seeker or applying for humanitarian protection (or you’re their dependant) \n you’re a domestic worker who has been identified as a victim of slavery or human trafficking \n \n you’re applying for discretionary leave to remain in the UK as someone who has been identified as a victim of slavery or human trafficking (or you’re their dependant) \n the Home Office’s domestic violence concession applies to you (or you’re their dependant) \n being made to leave the UK would be against your rights under Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights (or you’re their dependant) \n \n\n \n You need to pay the healthcare surcharge if you apply for indefinite leave to remain but are only given limited leave.
 You’ll need to pay before you’re given the leave.
 \n \n\n Visitor visas and short-term visas \n\n You do not need to pay the surcharge or get an IHS reference number if you’re applying for a: \n\n \n visitor visa \n visa for 6 months or less from outside the UK \n \n\n You will need to pay for any NHS care you get at the point you use it - unless it’s a service that’s free .
