Source: Journey North.
 Photograph by Jim Brandenburg, Minden Pictures/CorbisImperiled Monarch Butterflies Get $3.2 Million From U.S. GovernmentA new partnership involves government, private donations, and a lot of milkweed.
 2 Minute ReadBy Jane J. Lee, National Geographic     PUBLISHED February 11, 2015              Monarch butterflies have experienced a breathtaking decline in the past 20 years, going from a billion strong in 1996 to roughly 30 million today because of habitat destruction.
 On Monday, the U.S. government announced the first federal pot of money for rescuing monarchs, with the Fish and Wildlife Service earmarking $3.2 million for the effort.
 To achieve the otherworldly effect, researcher Daniel Castranova at the National Institutes of Health, assisted by colleague Bakary Samasa, tagged the fish\u2019s lymphatic vessels (orange) and scales (blue) with fluorescent proteins and stitched together more than 350 individual frames.
 The picture was taken by Igor Siwanowicz at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.
 The spore is surrounded by ghostly branches of ever-growing fungal fibers called hyphae.
 Taken by Indonesian photographer Ahmad Fauzan, the image shows one of these dark optical globes on a Bogong moth as well as its fuzzy head and curled proboscis.
 This image from Jason Kirk and Quynh Nguyen of the Baylor College of Medicine shows two adjacent hippocampal neurons connected by spindly synapses, ready to do some remembering.
 This image, a second winning entry from Ahmad Fauzan, depicts the head of one of these aquatic animals.
 \n","credit":"Eduardo Zattara and Alexa Bely, Instituto Nac.
 This is the only winning image not of the natural world.
 Diatoms generate more than 20 percent of the oxygen produced on Earth each year.
 The foundation will solicit donations to match Fish and Wildlife Service funding.
 Fish and Wildlife will also work with the nonprofit National Wildlife Federation to further its monarch project by making public land, facilities, and staff available when appropriate.
 (See "As Dwindling Monarch Butterflies Make Their Migration, Feds Try to Save Them.")
 On-the-ground efforts are crucial to saving the iconic butterfly because weed eradication efforts, along with the loss of prairies, have destroyed milkweed plants, which monarch caterpillars feed on exclusively.
 A petition to list the monarch as threatened under the federal Endangered Species Act is now under review by the Department of the Interior.
 Source: Journey North.
 (Read "Found at Last: The Monarch's Winter Home" in National Geographic magazine.)
 The idea is to restore enough milkweed to support increasing numbers of new monarchs.
 Devastating storms can wipe out 75 percent of the winter population in Mexico—one such storm killed 500 million monarchs in 2002.
 There were enough butterflies then that the survivors were able to reestablish a population, but recovering from such a blow would be much more difficult today.
 "Saving the monarch is actually a challenge that we can solve," says Collin O'Mara, president of the National Wildlife Federation.
 All it takes, he says, is planting milkweed.
 (See "Monarch Butterfly's Reign Threatened by Milkweed Decline.")
 Follow Jane J. Lee on Twitter.
