It’s easy to commit fish fraud since many fish species look and taste similar, especially after filleting and preparation.
 The latest study, published in Food Control in June, tested 281 seafood samples in Vancouver, using DNA barcoding (which compares the DNA of the sample to a database of known species) and found that 25 percent overall were mislabeled, most commonly red snapper.
 Restaurants fared worst (28 percent mislabeled), followed by grocery stores (24 percent) and sushi bars (22 percent).
 Previous studies, including ones that have looked at samples around the world, have found even higher rates of fish fraud.
 This followed a small study from George Washington University in 2017 that found that four of 12 seafood items ordered at six popular restaurants in Washington D.C., were mislabeled, also based on DNA barcoding—mostly with closely related species (that is, not egregious bait and switches).
 In one case, whiteleg shrimp, typically farmed, was sold as more-desirable and tastier rock shrimp.
 In another case, the fish swapped was one that was a conservation concern.
 In 2016, the conservancy group Oceana found that 20 percent of 25,700 seafood samples tested in 55 countries were mislabeled; the aver­age in the U.S. since 2014 was 28 percent.
 What you can do  Tracking of seafood from catch to table has greatly reduced fish fraud in Europe.
 The U.S.
 Seafood Import Monitoring Program, which went into effect in early 2018, should do the same here.
 In the meantime, here’s what to do to better ensure that you are getting the fish you pay for: Ask where the fish came from, whether it was farmed or wild, what fishing methods were used, and whether it was sustainably sourced.
 The more the fishmonger knows about it, the better.
 If possible, buy the whole fish, which is less likely to be mislabeled—or at least ask to see the whole fish before it is filleted.
 Be wary if the price seems too low.
 For example, inexpensive “wild” salmon is likely to be farmed Atlantic salmon, espe­cially in the winter, when wild salmon is in limited supply.
 Seafood that carries certification from such organizations as the Marine Stewardship Council and Aquaculture Stewardship Council is more likely to be what it says it is.
 This article first appeared in the UC Berkeley Wellness Letter.
 Also see A Sea of Waste.
