The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act: An Overview  
 Congressional Research Service 
Summary 
The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Ac
t (PLCAA, P.L. 109-92) was passed in 2005. The 
PLCAA generally shields licensed manufacturers, dealers, and sellers of firearms or ammunition, 
as well as trade associations, from any civil action ﬁresulting from the criminal or unlawful 
misuseﬂ of a firearm or ammunition, but lists six exceptions where civil suits may be maintained. 
This act was introduced in response to litigation brought by municipalities and victims of 

shooting incidents against federally licensed firearms manufacturers and dealers, some of whom 
were located outside the state where the injuries occurred. Consequently, most lawsuits brought 
after the enactment of this law have been dism
issed notwithstanding the exceptions that would 
permit a civil suit to proceed against a federal firearms licensee. This report provides an overview 
of the PLCAA and its exceptions, and discusses recent judicial developments.  
  The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act: An Overview  
 Congressional Research Service 
Contents Overview of the Protection of La
wful Commerce in Arms Act ...................................................... 1
 Provisions of the PLCAA .......................................................................................................
......... 2 Exceptions to the Prohibition 
on Civil Liability Action ............................................................ 2
 Conclusion ....................................................................................................................
................... 8  Contacts 
Author Contac
t Inform
ation............................................................................................................. 8   The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act: An Overview  
 Congressional Research Service 
1 Overview of the Protection of Lawful Commerce in 
Arms Act 
The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (PLCAA) was passed in 2005.
1 The act 
generally shields federally licensed manufacturers, dealers, and sellers of firearms or ammunition, 

as well as trade associations, from any civil action ﬁresulting from the criminal or unlawful 
misuseﬂ of a firearms or ammunition. The act lists six exceptions where civil suits may be 
maintained but otherwise requires that lawsuits, pending at the time of enactment, brought by 
shooting victims and municipalities ﬁbe immediately dismissed by the court in which the action 
was brought or is currently pending.ﬂ
2  The PLCAA was considered and passed at a time wh
en victims of shooting incidents, as well as 
municipalities with high incidences of firear
ms-related crimes, brought civil suits seeking 
damages and injunctive relief against out-of-state manufacturers and sellers of firearms as one 
tactic to inhibit the flow of firearms into illegal markets.
3 The statute™s findings state that the 
lawsuits seeking to hold ﬁan entire industry for harm that is solely caused by others is an abuse of 
the legal system,ﬂ and that the businesses targeted should not be liable for the harm caused by 
third parties who criminally or unlawfully misuse firearms products that function as designed and 

intended.
4 Senator Larry E. Craig, sponsor of the legislation, said that the bill ﬁwill put an end to 
politically-motivated lawsuits against the firearms industry,ﬂ and added, ﬁ[t]hese outrageous 
lawsuits attempting to hold law-abiding industry re
sponsible for the acts of criminals are a threat 
to jobs and the economy, jeopardize the exercise of constitutionally-protected freedoms, 
undermine national security, and circumvent Congress and state legislatures.ﬂ
5 In contrast, 
opponents of the legislation, like Dennis Henigan of the Brady Legal Action Project, countered, 
ﬁThe gun lobby is trying to radically change the rules, to make irresponsible gun dealers and the 
makers of defective guns the only business[es] in
 America exempt from longstanding principles 
of negligence, nuisance and product liability.ﬂ
6                                                  1 P.L. 109-92 (2005), 
codified at 
15 U.S.C. § 7901 
et seq
.  2 15 U.S.C. § 7902(b).  
3 See, e.g.
, City of Cincinnati v. Beretta U.S.A. Corp., 768 N.E.2d 1136 (Ohio 2002) (appellate court reversing lower 
court dismissal and holding that distributors could be held
 liable for creating alleged nuisance); NAACP v. AcuSport, 
Inc., 271 F.Supp. 2d 435 (E.D.N.Y. 2003) (gun industry held to have created public nuisance after trial; case dismissed 
due to lack of organizational standing); Jefferson v. Rossi, No. 01-CV-2536, 2002 WL 32154285, (E.D. Pa. Jan. 22, 

2002).  
4 15 U.S.C. § 7901(a)(5).  
5 ﬁLawsuit Reform Legislation Introduced,ﬂ 
U.S. Fed News
 (Feb. 16, 2005). In contrast to the legislation that was 
ultimately enacted, other Members in prior years had introduced legislation that would expressly permit a state, or an 

individual injured from the discharge of a firearm, to bring a lawsuit against a manufacturer, distributor of firearms if 

they were negligent in a firearm™s manufacture, distribution or sale. 
See, e.g.
, the Firearms Industry Responsibility 
Enforcement Act, H.R. 1049, 106
th Cong., 1
st sess. (1999); the Gun Industry Responsibility Act, H.R. 1086, 106
th Cong., 1
st sess. (1999); the Firearm Rights, Responsibilities, and Remedies Act, H.R. 1233 (106
th Cong., 1
st sess. 
(1999).  
6 ﬁBrady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence: Extreme Gun Lobby Trying Again to Protect Reckless Gun Dealers,ﬂ 
U.S. Newswire
 (Feb. 16, 2005).  
 The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act: An Overview  
 Congressional Research Service 
2 Provisions of the PLCAA The main provision of the PLCAA provides: ﬁA qualified civil liability action may not be brought 
in any Federal or State court.ﬂ
7 Whether the PLCAA bars a civil suit depends on if the action 
brought is a ﬁqualified civil liability action,ﬂ which is defined as:  
a civil action or proceeding or an administrati
ve proceeding brought by any person against a 
manufacturer or seller of a qualified product, or a trade association, for damages, punitive 
damages, injunctive or declaratory relief, abatement, restitution, fines, or penalties, or other 

relief, resulting from the criminal or unlawful misuse of a qualified product by the person or 

a third party.... 
8  Although a qualified civil liability action, by its own definition, appears to bar administrative 
proceedings, it is unclear whether the statute actually does so because the main provision of the 

PLCAA prohibits civil suits from being brought in
 courts. Notably, administrative proceedings 
are not brought in courts although appeals of them may be. If the statute is meant to cover 
administrative proceedings, then the effect of its doing so is not clear.  
Exceptions to the Prohibitio
n on Civil Liability Action 
The PLCAA lists six types of lawsuits that do not qualify as a ﬁqualified civil liability action,ﬂ 
and that therefore are not barred by the statute.
 9 Each of these exceptions is discussed below.  
 First Exception:
 An action brought against a transferor convicte
d under 18 U.S.C. § 924(h), or a comparable or 
identical state felony law, by a party directly harmed by the conduct of which the transferee is so convicted. 
Under the first exception, a civil suit would 
not be prohibited against a transferor (
i.e.
, a federal 
firearms licensee) if the transferor was convicted under 18 U.S.C. § 924(h), which makes it 
unlawful for anyone to ﬁknowingly tr
ansfer[] a firearm, knowing that 
such firearm will be used to 
commit a crime of violence ... or a drug trafficking crime.ﬂ Additionally, the transferee, or 

receiver, of the firearm needs to have been convicted for the civil action to be permitted, but the 
type of conviction necessary is unclear. The transferee™s conviction cannot refer to § 924(h) 
because this provision only applies to a transferor of a firearm. It may be the case that the 
conviction must be of a ﬁcrime of violenceﬂ or a ﬁdrug trafficking crime,ﬂ as defined by federal 
statute, as those are the crimes that the transferor must have had knowledge of in order to be 

convicted under § 924(h).
10                                                   7 15 U.S.C. § 7902(a).  
8 Id. at § 7903(5)(A). A ﬁqualified productﬂ means a firearm, including any antique firearm, or ammunition as defined 
in title 18 of the U.S. Code, or a component part of a fir
earm or ammunition, that has been shipped or transported in 
interstate or foreign commerce. 
Id. at § 7903(4). The term ﬁunlawful misuseﬂ is defined as ﬁconduct that violates a 
statute, ordinance, or regulation as it relates to the use of a qualified product.ﬂ 
Id. at § 7903(9).  
9 Id. at § 7903(5)(a)(i)-(vi). 
10A ﬁcrime of violenceﬂ is defined as an offense that is a felony and ﬁ(A) has an element of use, attempted use, or 
threatened use of physical force against the person or property of another; or (B) that by its nature, involves a 
substantial risk that physical force agai
nst the person or property
 of another may be used in the course of committing 
(continued...) 
 The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act: An Overview  
 Congressional Research Service 
3 Second Exception: 
An action brought against a seller for negligent entrustment or negligence per se.  
The second exception specifically refers to actions against ﬁa seller,ﬂ and the PLCAA™s definition 
of ﬁsellerﬂ may exclude some manufacturers from 
being included under this second exception, in 
which case they would continue to be immune fro
m suits for negligent entrustment or negligence 
per se.  
Under the PLCAA, a ﬁsellerﬂ includes a ﬁdealer (as defined in section 921(a)(11) of title 18) ... 
who is engaged in the business as such a dealer 
and who is licensed to engage in the businessﬂ 
under title 18. A ﬁdealer,ﬂ under § 921(a)(11), includes a person who is ﬁengaged in the business 
of selling firearms at wholesale or retail,ﬂ
11 and thus could include a manufacturer because it 
likely sells its products at wholesale. However, under limited circumstances,
12 federal regulation 
provides that a firearms manufacturer is 
not required ﬁto obtain a dealer™s license in order to 
engage in the business on the licensed premises as a dealer of the same type of firearms 
authorized by the license to be imported or manufactured.ﬂ
 13
 If a manufacturer meets this 
condition, then it is not required to obtain a ﬁdealer™s license,ﬂ in which case it would likely be 
excluded from the definition of ﬁsellerﬂ under the PLCAA.  
Although the PLCAA defines ﬁnegligen
t entrustmentﬂ as ﬁthe supplying of a qualified product by 
a seller for use by another person when the seller knows, or reasonably should know, the person 
to whom the product is supplied is likely to, and does, use the product in a manner involving 

unreasonable risk of physical injury to the person or others,ﬂ
14 a plaintiff™s claim of negligent 
entrustment will be asserted under state law. For example, Washington state courts have held that 
a common law tort claim of negligent entrustment can be brought against both retail firearms 
dealers and manufacturers.
15 However, even if a state has its own interpretation and permits a suit 
for negligent entrustment to proceed against a manufacturer, the federal definition of ﬁsellerﬂ 

might preclude such a suit.
16 This means that a manufacturer excepted from the federal 
requirement to obtain a ﬁdealer™s license,ﬂ as described above, 
would not
 qualify as a ﬁsellerﬂ 
                                                                 
(...continued) 
the offense.ﬂ 18 U.S.C. § 924(c)(3). A ﬁdrug trafficking crimeﬂ is defined as ﬁany felony punishable under the 
Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. § 801 
et seq
), the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. § 951 
et seq
), or the Maritime Drug Law Enforcement Act (46 U.S.C. App. 1901 
et seq
).ﬂ 18 U.S.C. § 924(c)(2). 
11 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(11).  
12 27 C.F.R. § 478.41(b). (ﬁPayment of the license fee as an importer or manufacturer of destructive devices, 
ammunition for destructive devices or armor piercing ammunition or as a dealer in destructive devices 
includes the 
privilege of importing or
 manufacturing firearms 
other than destructive devices and ammunition ..., 
or dealing in 
firearms 
other than destructive devices, as the case may be, by such a licensee 
at the licensed premises
.ﬂ) (emphasis 
added).  
13 Id.  14 15 U.S.C. § 7903(5)(B).  
15 See
 Berthony v. Walt Failor™s, Inc., 653 P.2d 280 (Wash. 1980) (holding that firearms dealers (1) owe a common law 
duty not to provide weapons to unfit persons and (2) owe a common law duty to third parties injured by weapons made 

available to an unfit person by a firearms dealer). 
See also
 Johnson v. Bulls Eye Shooter Supply, No. 03-2-093932-8, 
2003 WL 21629244, at *4 (Wash. Jun. 27, 2003) (citing 
Knott v. Liberty Jewelry and Loan, Inc.
, 748 P.2d 661 (Wash. 
Ct. App. 1988), as not precluding civil actions against retail dealers or manufacturers of firearms). 
16 U.S. Const., art. VI, cl. 2. (ﬁThis Constitution, and the 
Laws of the United States which shall be made in Pursuance 
thereof; and all Treaties made, or which shall be made, under the Authority of the United States, shall be the supreme 

Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any 
State to the Contrary notwithstanding.ﬂ).  
 The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act: An Overview  
 Congressional Research Service 
4 under PLCAA and therefore would continue to be 
immune from suits for negligent entrustment. 
Alternatively, a manufacturer who is licensed as a dealer under federal law 
would qualify as a 
ﬁsellerﬂ and would be subject to suits for negligent entrustment.  
Under the second exception, a ﬁsellerﬂ may also be subject to an action for ﬁnegligence per se,ﬂ a 
term that the PLCAA does not define. This term generally means ﬁ[n]egligence established as a 
matter of law, so that breach of the duty is not a jury question.ﬂ
17 In other words, a court could 
adopt the requirements of a legislative enactment or regulation as the standard of conduct for a 
reasonable person.
18 If it does so, then the individual who violates the legislation or regulation is 
automatically deemed negligent and the jury is not asked to determine if such individual acted in 
a reasonable manner.
19 Thus, whether a violation of a statute constitutes negligence per se is a 
question of state law.
20 Accordingly, a plaintiff may proceed under the second exception of the 
PLCAA if he alleges that the seller violated a statute and that relevant statute provides that one 
may be held strictly liable for violating the particular statute or regulation. Conversely, if 
applicable state law allows the question of negligence to go to the jury even when the defendant 
has violated a statute or regulationŠin other words, there is no negligence per se ruleŠthen the 
second exception would not apply and such a suit would be barred by the PLCAA unless it 

qualified as an another listed exception.  
 Third Exception
: An action in which a manufacturer or seller of a qualified product violated a state or federal law 
applicable to the sale or marketing of the product, and the violation was a proximate cause of the harm for which 
relief is sought including:  
(I) any case in which the manufacturer or seller knowingly made any false entry in, or failed to make appropriate entry 
in, any record required to be kept under Federal or State law with respect to the qualified product, or aided, abetted, 
or conspired with any person in making any false or fictitious oral or written statement with respect to any fact 
material to the lawfulness of the sale or other disposition of a qualified product; or 
(II) any case in which the manufacturer or seller aided, abetted, or conspired with any other person to sell or 
otherwise dispose of a qualified product, knowing, or having reasonable cause to believe, that the actual buyer of the 
qualified product was prohibited from possessing or receiving a firearm or ammunition under 18 U.S.C. § 922 (g) or 
(n).  
This third exception to the PLCAA is known as the ﬁpredicate exception,ﬂ because it essentially 
requires the plaintiff to assert, as part of her claim, that the manufacturer or seller knowingly 
                                                 17 Black™s Law Dictionary (7
th ed. 1999) at 1057 (ﬁNegligence per se usually arises from a statutory violation.ﬂ 
Id.).  18 Restatement (Second) of Torts § 286 (1965). A court may choose to adopt a law or regulation for the standard of a 
reasonable person if the law™s purpose is found to be, exclusively or in part, ﬁ(a) to protect a class of persons which 
includes the one whose interest is invaded, (b) to protect th
e particular interest which is invaded, (c) to protect that 
interest against the kind of arm harm which has resulted, and (d) to protect that interest against the particular hazard 

from which the harm results.ﬂ 
Id.  19 Id. at § 288B(1). This is the rule in
 followed in a majority of courts. 
See
 Stuart M. Speiser, Charles F. Krause and 
Alfred W. Gans, 2 The American Law of Torts (1985 cum. supp. 1998) at 1029. However, some courts appear to have 

limited the ﬁper seﬂ rule to situations where there has been a violation of a 
specific
 requirement of a law, 
i.e.
, legislation 
that expresses rules of conduct in specific and concrete terms as opposed to general or abstract principles. 
Id. at 1034-
35.  
20 The statute in question in a negligence per se claim is most frequently statutes adopted by state legislatures, ﬁbut 
equally applies to regulations adopted by state administrative bodies, ordinances adopted by local councils, and federal 

statutes as well as regulations promulgated by federal agencies.ﬂ Restatement (Third) of Torts: Liability for Physical 
and Emotional Harm § 14 cmt. a (2010).  
 The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act: An Overview  
 Congressional Research Service 
5 committed a violation of an underlying statute, 
i.e.
, a ﬁpredicate statute.ﬂ A case that proceeds 
under the third exception has often turned on whether the predicate statute is ﬁapplicable to the 
sale or marketing of the product.ﬂ  
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Second Circuit) in 
City of New York v. Beretta 
U.S.A. Corp. held that the PLCAA barred the action because the criminal nuisance law upon 
which the City relied ﬁdoes not fall within the contours of the Act™s predicate exception.ﬂ
21 The 
City had alleged that the firearms suppliers violated the State of New York™s criminal nuisance 
provision, which provides that one is guilty of such an offense if, by conduct that is ﬁeither 
unlawful in itself or unreasonable under all circumstances, knowingly or recklessly creates or 
maintains a condition which endangers the safety or health of a considerable number of persons ... 
ﬂ22 While the City acknowledged that the criminal nuisance statute was one of general 
applicability, it argued that the provisions could be applied to the sale or marketing and thus fell 
within the predicate exception. The firearms suppliers, on the other hand, argued that the 
predicate exception ﬁwas intended to include statutes that specifically and expressly regulate the 
firearms industry.ﬂ
23 The Second Circuit, in determining the meaning of a law ﬁapplicable to the 
sale or marketing of [firearms],ﬂ agreed with neither the City nor the firearms suppliers.
24 Rather, 
the court concluded that the predicate exception: (1) does not include the New York criminal 
nuisance law asserted by the plaintiffs; (2) does encompass statutes that expressly regulate 
firearms, or that have been declared by courts to apply to the sale and marketing of firearms; and 
(3) does cover statutes that do not expressly regulate firearms, but that clearly implicate the 
purchase and sale of firearms.
25  Similarly, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (Ninth Circuit) in 
Ileto v. Glock
 rejected 
the plaintiffs™ claim that California™s public nuisance statutes can be predicate statutes that are 
encompassed under the PLCAA™s third exception. The parties disputed whether the California tort 
statutes are ﬁapplicable to the sale or marketing of [firearms],ﬂ
26 and each side advanced an 
interpretation of ﬁapplicableﬂ similar to their counterparts in 
City of New York
. The Ninth Circuit 
also found that the term ﬁ‚applicable™ has a spectrum of meanings, including the two poles 
identified by the parties.ﬂ
27 The court in 
Ileto
 declared that the PLCAA preempted common law 
claims, like general tort theories of liability, even if such claims are codified by state law, as is the 
case in California.
28 However, the Ninth Circuit did not go as far as the Second Circuit to outline 
                                                 21 City of New York v. Beretta U.S.A. Corp., 524 F.3d 384, 390 (2d. Cir. 2008) (also holding that the PLCAA is a valid 
exercise of the powers granted to Congress pursuant to the Commerce Clause and that the act does not violate the 
doctrine of separation of powers or otherwise offend the Constitution), 
cert. denied
 New York v. Beretta U.S.A. Corp
., 2009 U.S. LEXIS 1833 (U.S. Mar. 9, 2009).  
22 Id. at 399. (
citing
 New York Penal Code § 240.45(1)).  
23 Id.  24 The court found the firearms suppliers™ reading of the PLCAA™s third exceptionŠi.e., that the predicate statute must 
expressly refer to the firearms industryŠtoo narrow. Sim
ilarly, it found that the City™s reading of the PLCAA 
exceptionŠi.e., that the statute need only be ﬁcapable of being appliedﬂŠtoo broad. 
Id. at 400.  
25 Id. at 404.  
26 Ileto v. Glock, 565 F.3d 1126, 1133 (9
th Cir. 2009), 
cert. denied 
Ileto v. Glock, 2010 U.S. LEXIS 4308 (U.S., May 
24, 2010).  
27 Id. at 1134.  
28 Id. at 1135-36. The Ninth Circuit noted that the PLCAA™s second exception further bolstered its conclusion that 
Congress intended to preempt common law claims, because the sec
ond exception, which only allows the common law 
claims of negligent entrustment and negligence per se, ﬁdemonstrates that Congress consciously considered how to 

treat tort claims.ﬂ 
Id. at 1136 n.6. Furthermore, the court stated that accepting the plaintiffs™ argument of recognizing 
codified common law claims but not non-codified common 
law claims under the predicate exception would lead to ﬁa 
(continued...) 
 The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act: An Overview  
 Congressional Research Service 
6 the contours of the types of laws that might be acceptable as predicate statutes under the 
exception. Rather, it declined to ﬁexpress any view on the scope of the predicate exception with 
respect to any other statute.ﬂ
29  Although the federal courts have rejected both criminal and public nuisance laws as statutes that 
would be encompassed by the predicate exception, it appears that only one state court reached the 
opposite conclusion. The State of Indiana court of appeals in 
Smith & Wesson Corp. v. City of 
Gary, Indiana 
rejected the manufacturers™ argument that the term ﬁapplicableﬂ is limited to those 
statutes that regulate the manner in which a firearm is sold or marketed, 
i.e.
, ﬁstatutes specifying 
when, where, how, and to whom a firearm may be sold or marketed.ﬂ
30 Rather, the court found 
that ﬁon the face of the [predicate exception™s language], Indiana™s public nuisance statute appears 
applicable to the sale or marketing of firearms.ﬂ
31 Furthermore, the court did not believe that the 
PLCAA requires an underlying violation of a stat
ute applicable to the sale or marketing of 
firearms because ﬁunlawful conduct was not a requirement of a public nuisance claim.ﬂ
32 However, the appeals court recognized that even if the PLCAA were to require an underlying 
violation of a statute 
directly
 applicable to the sale of a firearm, the City already had alleged such 
violations in its complaint.
33 Despite reaching the opposite conclusion, the Ninth Circuit in 
Ileto
, remarked that that this case was of ﬁlimited persuasive value,ﬂ because the court™s decision was 
based, in part, on the fact that the plaintiffs in 
City of Gary
 had alleged violations of the state™s 
statutory firearms regulations, which did not occur in the Ninth Circuit case.
34  As indicated by these cases, plaintiffs who have brought challenges under the predicate exception 
generally have not been successful.
35 Yet, the New York State appellate division in 
Williams v. 
Beemiller, Inc.
, allowed a civil suit against a manufacturer, distributor, and dealer to proceed 
under the predicate exception.
36 The complaint listed several causes of action, including that the 
defendants had intentionally violated federal, state, and local legislative enactments by permitting 
straw purchases to occur, 
i.e.
, the sale of firearms to an individual who purchased firearms on 
behalf of another whom the dealer knew or had 
reasonable cause to believe was ineligible to 
                                                                 
(...continued) 
result that is difficult to square with Cong
ress™ intention to create national uniformity.ﬂ 
Id. at 1136.  
29 Id. at 1138 n.9.  
30 Smith & Wesson Corp. v. City of Gary, Indiana, 875 N.E.2d 422 (Ind. Ct. App. 2007).  
31 Id. at 432.  
32 Id. (quoting the Indiana Supreme Court who declared ﬁgenerally, gun regulatory laws leave room for the defendants 
to be in compliance with those regulations while still actin
g unreasonably and creating a public nuisance.ﬂ City of Gary 
ex rel. King v. Smith & Wesson Corp., 801 N.E.2d 1222, 1232-33, 1235 (Ind. 2003)).  
33 Id. at 433.  
34 Ileto, 565 F.3d at 1135 n.5 (ﬁIndeed, the 
City of Gary
 court distinguished the facts of this case on that basis [citation 
omitted] (ﬁHere, unlike in 
Ileto
, the City alleged activity on the part of the Manufacturers that facilitates unlawful sales 
and violates regulatory statutes.ﬂ)).  
35 See, e.g.
, District of Columbia v. Beretta U.S.A. Corp., 940 A.2d 163, 170-71 (D.C. 2008) (holding that the District 
of Columbia™s Assault Weapons Manufacturing Strict Liability Act of 1990 does not qualify as a predicate statute 

because it does not impose any duty on firearms manufacturers or sellers to operate in any particular manner or 

according to any standards of reasonableness and that Congress could not have intended ﬁto exempt an action founded 
on so attenuated a connection between statutory ‚violation™ and an injury from the reach of those civil actions the 
PLCAA proscribes.ﬂ).  
36 2012 N.Y. App. Div. LEXIS 6683; 952 N.Y.S.2d 333 (Oct. 5, 2012). The plaintiffs, an injured student and his father, 
alleged that the licensed dealer sold 87 handguns, including the weapon used to shoot the student in 2003, to a gun 
trafficker in one transaction in Ohio, as well as more
 than 50 additional sales within a period of months. 
 The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act: An Overview  
 Congressional Research Service 
7 purchase weapons.
37 The court held that the claims were not barred by the PLCAA because the 
plaintiffs had sufficiently alleged facts to support a finding that the defendants knowingly violated 
the Gun Control Act, which makes it unlawful for any licensee to knowingly make any false entry 
in, or fail to properly maintain, any record that he is legally required to keep.
38 Unlike the rejected 
nuisance laws, the court, by allowing the suit to proceed, acknowledged that provisions of the 
Gun Control Act are ﬁapplicable to firearmsﬂ sales and therefore could be used as predicate 

statutes for the predicate exception.
39 Although the plaintiffs overcame this procedural hurdle, 
they must still demonstrate that the defendant knowingly violated the federal statute and that 
violation of the statute was the ﬁproximate causeﬂ of their injuries.
40 If the plaintiffs prevail in the 
Williams 
case, the door to civil litigation against licensed firearms suppliers might be once again 
slightly opened, as others could take similar action based on the same grounds. 
 Fourth Exception
: An action for breach of contract or warranty in connection with the purchase of the product.  
Fifth Exception
: An action for death, physical injuries or property damage resulting directly from a defect in design 
or manufacture of the product, when used as intended or in a reasonably foreseeable manner, except that where the 
discharge of the product was caused by a volitional act that constituted a criminal offense, then such act shall be 
considered the sole proximate cause of any resulting death, personal injuries or property damage. 
The fourth and fifth exceptions appear to be straightforward in that they permit breach of contract 
or warranty actions against a seller as well as tort actions for injuries incurred as a result of a 
design defect or manufacturing defect. Notably, there is an exception to the fifth exception. The 

exception appears to preclude a suit ﬁwhere the discharge of the product was caused by a 
volitional act that constituted a criminal offenseﬂ because that act would be considered ﬁthe sole 
proximate cause of any resulting death, personal injuries, or property damage.ﬂ For example, if a 
criminal fired a gun without aiming at his victim, but the bullet hit the victim as a result of a 
manufacturing or design defect, then the injured person would be statutorily barred from a suit 
                                                 37 Id. at *3-4.  
38 Id. at *10. 
See 
18 U.S.C. § 922(m) (unlawful for any federal firearms licensee knowingly to make any false entry in, 
or fail to appropriately maintain, any record which he is required to keep by law). 
See also
 18 U.S.C. § 923(g) (requires 
a federal firearms licensee to maintain records on the identity of an individual to whom he transfers firearms).  
39 Id. at *7-8.(ﬁ[W]e agree with plaintiffs that the court erred in dismissing the complaint in asmuch as [the plaintiffs] 
sufficiently alleged that defendants knowingly violated various federal and state statutes applicable to the sale or 
marketing of firearms within the meaning of the PLCAA™s predicate exception.ﬂ).  
40 Any plaintiff could encounter difficulty proving his case becau
se there are federal restrictions on the admissibility of 
certain firearms data in state or federal court proceedings. Firearms trace data is generally accumulated when 
investigators recover guns at a crime scene and trace the commercial trail of the gun to its first retail purchaser from a 
licensed dealer. This information is gathered and maintained by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tob
acco, Firearms and 
Explosives (ATF). The restriction on the accessibility and use of 
this data is part of an a
ppropriations restriction known 
as the Tiahrt amendment that was first passed in 2003. Curre
ntly, the appropriations restriction provides, in relevant 
part:  
[N]o funds appropriated under this or any other Act may be used to disclose part or all of the 
contents of the Firearms Trace System ... and all su
ch data shall be immune from legal process, 
shall not be subject to subpoena or other discovery, shall be inadmissible in evidence, and shall not 
be used, relied on, or disclosed in any manner, nor shall testimony or other evidence be permitted 
based on the data, in a civil action in any State (including the District of Columbia) or Federal court 

or an administrative proceeding other than a proceeding commenced by the [ATF]... 
Continuing Appropriations Resolutions, 2013, P.L. 112-175 (2012) (
referring to
 P.L. 112-55; 125 Stat. 609-610 
(2012)).  
 The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act: An Overview  
 Congressional Research Service 
8 against the manufacturer. However, if a criminal used a gun while committing an offense and the 
gun fired spontaneously without his pulling the tr
igger, different questions may be raised. Would 
committing the offense constitute a ﬁvolitional actﬂ that would immunize the manufacturer from 
suit? Additionally, does the phrase ﬁconstituted a criminal offenseﬂ mean that the criminal had to 
have been convicted by proof beyond a reasonable doubt as required in criminal prosecution, or 
merely that the plaintiff would have to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence (the standard 

for civil suits), that the defendant™s volitional act constituted a criminal offense? If the latter, 
would the plaintiff be permitted to prove in a civil suit that the criminal™s volitional act 
constituted a criminal offense even if the criminal had been previously acquitted for that offense?  
 Sixth Exception
: An action or proceeding commenced by the Attorney General to enforce the provisions of 
chapter 44 of title 18 or chapter 53 of title 26.  
The last exception to the PLCAA is also straightforward. The act does not prevent the Attorney 
General from enforcing the relevant Gun Control Act
41 or National Firearms Act
42 against federal 
firearms licensees through the administrative or civil proceedings provided for in those statutes. 
Conclusion Many civil lawsuits against federal firearms licensees have been dismissed since the enactment of 

the PLCAA. It may be the case that entities or i
ndividuals have been deterred from bringing suit 
due to the federal provision or from other plaintiffs™ lack of success under the statutory 
exceptions. In the past year, however, at least one court has permitted a lawsuit to proceed under 
the predicate exception, finding that provisions of
 the Gun Control Act are ﬁapplicable to the sale 
or marketing of guns,ﬂ and therefore may be used
 as the underlying predicate statute to assert a 
state tort law claim against a federal firearms licensee. Yet, whether the plaintiffs are able to prove 
their claims will likely depend on their success in the discovery process, in which case they may 
face other procedural obstacles to obtaining information.  
 Author Contact Information 
Vivian S. Chu 
Legislative Attorney 
vchu@crs.loc.gov, 7-4576 
                                                  41 Gun Control Act, 
codified at
 18 U.S.C. § 921 
et seq
.  42 National Firearms Act, 
codified at
 26 U.S.C. § 5801 
et seq
.  