NEJM Journal Watch  Concise summaries and expert physician commentary that busy clinicians need to enhance patient care.
 NEJM Knowledge +  The most effective and engaging way for clinicians to learn, improve their practice, and prepare for board exams.
 NEJM Catalyst  NEW!
 Peer-reviewed journal featuring in-depth articles to accelerate the transformation of health care delivery.
 NEJM Resident 360  Information, resources, and support needed to approach rotations - and life as a resident.
 NEJM Career Center  Valuable tools for building a rewarding career in health care.
 NEJM Library Hub  Information and tools for librarians about site license offerings.
 NEJM 医学前沿  The authorized source of trusted medical research and education for the Chinese-language medical community.
 The New England Journal of Medicine  The most trusted, influential source of new medical knowledge and clinical best practices in the world.
 383  No.
 19        Recent Issues          October 29, 2020  Vol.
 383  No.
 18                October 22, 2020  Vol.
 383  No.
 17                October 15, 2020  Vol.
 383  No.
 16         Browse full issue index   Browse recently published    Browse full issue index    Recently Published Articles          Racial Disproportionality in Covid Clinical Trials                   Transgender Women on College Athletic Teams — The Case of Lindsay Hecox        J. Dolgin           Early Spread of SARS-CoV-2 in the Icelandic Population                   Preterm Birth and 17OHP — Why the FDA Should Not Withdraw Approval        M.F.
 Greene et al.
 Withdrawing Approval of Makena — A Proposal from the FDA Center for Drug Evaluation and Research        C.Y.
 Chang et al.
 SARS-CoV-2 Neutralizing Antibody LY-CoV555 in Outpatients with Covid-19        P. Chen et al.
 Browse recently published      Learning/CME            Learning/CME          CME            Remdesivir for the Treatment of Covid-19 — Final Report                    Colchicine in Patients with Chronic Coronary Disease                    Migraine             Clinical Cases Resource Center           Interactive Medical Cases          Image Challenge           Videos in Clinical Medicine        NEJM Resident 360   NEJM Knowledge+   View all learning/CME    View all learning/CME      Other NEJM Group Learning        Hand Hygiene      Essential information students and residents need to approach residency with confidence: practical training information, career guidance, insightful discussions.
 Effective, adaptive learning that helps you prepare for certification, maintain competency, and sharpen clinical decision-making while earning CME and MOC.
 Article               Figures/Media             Metrics        5 References82
        Citing Articles6 CommentsRelated ArticlesArticleThe horrific loss of life at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, in December 2012 has prompted a national conversation about guns and mental illness in the United States.
 This tragedy occurred less than 6 months after 70 people were shot in a movie theater in Colorado and after highly publicized mass shootings in Arizona and at Virginia Tech.
 These four events share two common characteristics: all four shooters were apparently mentally ill, and all four used guns with large-capacity magazines, allowing them to fire multiple rounds of ammunition without reloading.
 In the aftermath of Sandy Hook, it's also important to understand how Americans view mental illness.To examine these issues, we conducted two national public opinion surveys between January 2 and January 14, 2013, with the survey research firm GfK Knowledge Networks, using equal-probability sampling from a sample frame of residential addresses covering 97% of U.S. households.
 The surveys were pilot-tested December 28 through December 31, 2012.
 The order of the survey items was randomized.
 Survey completion rates were 69% and 70%, respectively.
 For the gun-policy survey, to report national rates of policy support and compare rates stratified according to respondents' gun-ownership status, we oversampled both gun-owners and non-owners living in households with guns.
 We reported the gun-policy results at the Summit on Reducing Gun Violence in America at Johns Hopkins University on January 15, 2013.Some 33% of respondents reported having a gun in their home or garage, an estimate that's consistent with recent data from the General Social Survey and other surveys,4,5 though somewhat lower than a few 2013 polls have reported.
 Twenty-two percent of respondents identified the guns as personally belonging to them (“gun-owners”), and 11% identified themselves as non–gun-owners living in a household with a gun.
 Among gun-owners, 71% reported owning a handgun, 62% reported owning a shotgun, and 61% reported owning a rifle.
 The remaining 67% of respondents identified themselves as non–gun-owners living in households without guns (“non–gun-owners”).Table 1.
 Table 1.
 Majorities of the respondents supported all but 4 of 31 gun policies (see Table 1).
 Public support was particularly high for measures prohibiting certain persons from having guns, enhancing background checks, and instituting greater oversight of gun dealers.
 Even policies banning the sale of military-style semiautomatic weapons and large-capacity ammunition magazines were supported by more than 65% of the general public.We found smaller differences than we anticipated between gun-owners and non–gun-owners.
 All policies bolstering background checks and oversight of gun dealers were supported by majorities of gun-owners, as were most policies prohibiting certain persons from having guns.
 A majority of members of the National Rifle Association (NRA) supported many of these policies as well.
 For instance, 84% of gun-owners and 74% of NRA members (vs. 90% of non–gun-owners) supported requiring a universal background-check system for all gun sales; 76% of gun-owners and 62% of NRA members (vs. 83% of non–gun-owners) supported prohibiting gun ownership for 10 years after a person has been convicted of violating a domestic-violence restraining order; and 71% of gun-owners and 70% of NRA members (vs. 78% of non–gun-owners) supported requiring a mandatory minimum sentence of 2 years in prison for a person convicted of selling a gun to someone who cannot legally have a gun.We found larger differences in support between non–gun-owners and gun-owners for policies banning the sale of semiautomatic assault weapons (77% vs. 46%), banning the sale of large-capacity ammunition magazines holding more than 10 bullets (76% vs. 48%), prohibiting handgun ownership for people younger than 21 years of age (76% vs. 52%), and requiring gun-owners to lock guns when they're not in use to prevent handling by children or teenagers without adult supervision (75% vs. 44%).
 Non–gun-owners and gun-owners held similar views on the policies that attracted the lowest levels of support, such as prohibiting gun ownership by persons with misdemeanor convictions for indecent exposure (28% vs. 21%) or drunk and disorderly conduct (40% vs. 32%).In many cases, the views of non–gun-owners living in households with guns were aligned more closely with those of other non–gun-owners than with those of personal gun-owners.
 For instance, 76% of non–gun-owners living in households with guns supported requiring a person to obtain a license for a gun (vs. 84% of other non–gun-owners and 59% of gun-owners).Most policies regarding persons with mental illness were popular with both non–gun-owners and gun-owners.
 Eighty-five percent of respondents supported requiring states to report to the national background-check system persons who are prohibited from having guns because they have either been involuntarily committed to a hospital for psychiatric treatment or been declared mentally incompetent by a court.
 Although this requirement has been in place since before the background-check system was implemented in 1998, many states do not report mental health records.
 Of the policies regarding persons with mental illness included in the survey, the one that had the least public support was allowing people who have lost the right to have a gun because of mental illness to have that right restored if they are determined not to be dangerous.Table 2.
 Table 2.
 Overall, respondents expressed ambivalence about mental illness (see Table 2).
 Almost half of respondents believed that people with serious mental illness are more dangerous than members of the general population, but less than a third believed that locating a group residence for people with mental illness in a residential neighborhood would endanger area residents.
 Most said they were unwilling to have a person with a serious mental illness as a coworker or a neighbor.
 However, 69% favored requiring insurance companies to offer benefits for mental health and drug and alcohol abuse services that are equivalent to benefits for other medical services.
 Such equity was the core idea behind a federal parity law that took effect in 2010.Fifty-nine percent of respondents supported increased government spending on mental health care, and 61% favored greater spending on such care as a strategy for reducing gun violence.
 (Support was substantially lower for spending on treatment for drug and alcohol abuse.)
 Finally, 58% viewed discrimination against people with mental illness as a serious problem, while 56% believed that, with treatment, these people could get well and return to productive lives.
 In most cases, respondents who had direct experience with mental illness personally or through a close relationship had more positive views about mental illness than those without direct experience.Findings from these surveys indicate high support among Americans — including gun-owners, in many cases — for a range of policies aimed at reducing gun violence.
 Gun policies with the highest support included those related to persons with mental illness.
 The majority of Americans apparently also support increasing government spending on mental health treatment as a strategy for reducing gun violence.
 Given the data on public attitudes about persons with mental illness, it is worth thinking carefully about how to implement effective gun-violence–prevention measures without exacerbating stigma or discouraging people from seeking treatment.
 Funding and Disclosures  Disclosure forms provided by the authors are available with the full text of this article at NEJM.org.
 This article was published on January 28, 2013, at NEJM.org.Author AffiliationsFrom the Department of Health Policy and Management (C.L.B., E.E.M., J.S.V., D.W.W.)
 and the Center for Gun Policy and Research (E.E.M., J.S.V., D.W.W.
 ), Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore.
 Supplementary Material
       References (5)1.
 Vernick JS, Teret SP, Howard KA, Teret M, Wintemute GJ.
 Public opinion polling on gun policy.
 Health Aff (Millwood) 1993;12:198-208Crossref Web of Science MedlineGoogle Scholar2.
 Blendon RJ, Young JT, Hemenway D. The American public and the gun control debate.
 JAMA 1996;275:1719-1722Crossref Web of Science MedlineGoogle Scholar3.
 Teret SP, Webster DW, Vernick JS, et al.
 Support for new policies to regulate firearms: results of two national surveys.
 N Engl J Med 1998;339:813-818Free Full Text Web of Science MedlineGoogle Scholar4.
 Davis JA, Smith TW.
 General social surveys, 2010.
 Chicago: National Opinion Research Center, 2010.Google Scholar5.
 Sides J.
 Gun owners vs. the NRA: what the polling shows.
 Washington Post.
 Table 2.
 Fracchia and Others     Perspective  Security of Health Care and Global Health  R. Coupland     Images in Clinical Medicine  Strongyloides stercoralis Embryonated Ova in the Lung  L. Schroeder and N. Banaei     Original Article  Percutaneous Closure of Patent Foramen Ovale in Cryptogenic Embolism  B. Meier and Others     Special Article  Norovirus and Medically Attended Gastroenteritis in U.S. Children  D.C. Payne and Others     Clinical Therapeutics  Colony-Stimulating Factors for Febrile Neutropenia during Cancer Therapy  C.L.
 Bennett and Others     Original Article  Closure of Patent Foramen Ovale versus Medical Therapy after Cryptogenic Stroke  J.D.
 Carroll and Others     Perspective  Ensuring Public Health Neutrality  L.F. Roberts and M.J. VanRooyen     Original Article  ERCC1 Isoform Expression and DNA Repair in Non–Small-Cell Lung Cancer  L. Friboulet and Others     Original Article  Four-Year Efficacy of RTS,S/AS01E and Its Interaction with Malaria Exposure  A. Olotu and Others     Editorial  Still No Closure on the Question of PFO Closure  S.R.
 Messé and D.M.
 Kent     Clinical Implications of Basic Research  Anthracyclines and Heart Failure  D.B.
 Sawyer     Images in Clinical Medicine  Skeletal Fluorosis Due to Excessive Tea Drinking  N. Kakumanu and S.D.
 Sign In or Renew                    Back to top       Article Categories   Research   Reviews   Clinical Cases   Perspective   Commentary   Other   Browse all Articles   Current Issue   Issue Index     Resources   Authors &amp; Reviewers   Submit a Manuscript   Subscribers   Institutions   Media   Advertisers   Agents   Permissions          Reprints         NEJM CareerCenter     About Us   About NEJM   Products &amp; Services   Editors &amp; Publishers   Advertising Policies   Contact Us   Accessibility   FAQs   Help   Site Feedback     Subscriptions   Subscribe   Renew   Activate Subscription   Create Account   Manage Account   Pay Bill   Special Offers     Stay Connected   Email Alerts   Create Account   Apps   NEJM CareerCenter   Podcasts   RSS Feed   Remote Access     Follow Us             Facebook                   Twitter                   Instagram              YouTube                   LinkedIn             Copyright © 2020 Massachusetts Medical Society.
 All rights reserved.
 Electronic ISSN 1533-4406.
 Print ISSN 0028-4793.
 The content of this site is intended for health care professionals.
