The story generated worldwide headlines and much soul-searching at UVA.
 University president Teresa Sullivan promised a full investigation and also to examine the way the school investigates sexual assault allegations.
 Because of the sensitive nature of Jackie’s story, we decided to honor her request not to contact the man who she claimed orchestrated the attack on her nor any of the men who she claimed participated in the attack for fear of retaliation against her.
 In the months Sabrina Rubin Erdely reported the story, Jackie said or did nothing that made her, or Rolling Stone‘s editors and fact-checkers, question her credibility.
 Jackie’s friends and rape activists on campus strongly supported her account.
 She had spoken of the assault in  campus forums.
 We reached out to both the local branch and the national leadership of Phi Psi, the fraternity where Jackie said she was attacked.
 They responded that they couldn’t confirm or deny her story but that they had questions about the evidence.
 The fraternity has issued a formal statement denying the assault and asserting that there was no “date function or formal event” on the night in question.
 Jackie herself is now unsure if the man she says lured her into the room where the rape occurred, identified in the story as “Drew,” was a Phi Psi brother.
 According to the Washington Post, “Drew” actually belongs to a different fraternity and when contacted by the paper, he denied knowing Jackie.
 Jackie told Rolling Stone that after she was assaulted, she ran into “Drew” at a UVA pool where they both worked as lifeguards.
 In its statement, Phi Psi says none of its members worked at the pool in the fall of 2012.
 A friend of Jackie’s (who we were told would not speak to Rolling Stone) told the Washington Post that he found Jackie that night a mile from the school’s fraternities.
 She did not appear to be “physically injured at the time” but was shaken.
 She told him that that she had been forced to have oral sex with a group of men at a fraternity party, but he does not remember her identifying a specific house.
 Other friends of Jackie’s told the Washington Post that they now have doubts about her narrative, but Jackie told the Washington Post that she firmly stands by the account she gave to Erdely.
 We published the article with the firm belief that it was accurate.
 Given all of these reports, however, we have come to the conclusion that we were mistaken in honoring Jackie’s request to not contact the alleged assaulters to get their account.
 In trying to be sensitive to the unfair shame and humiliation many women feel after a sexual assault, we made a judgment – the kind of judgment reporters and editors make every day.
 We should have not made this agreement with Jackie and we should have worked harder to convince her that the truth would have been better served by getting the other side of the story.
 These mistakes are on Rolling Stone, not on Jackie.
 We apologize to anyone who was affected by the story and we will continue to investigate the events of that evening.
 Sign up for our newsletter.
 We want to hear from you!
 Send us a tip using our anonymous form.
 Send Us a Tip                 			© Copyright 2020 Rolling Stone, LLC, a subsidiary of Penske Business Media, LLC.
