Eager to share it with my cousin (40m), on the way home I stopped at sonic for slushes.
 He has two kids (8m &amp; 6m) and I always get them something when I come home and I wanted a chaser for the rum.Four large slushes later, I make it to the house and they are playing board games.
 I poured the rum in two of the slushes and set them to the side so I could use the bathroom.
 When I came back only one of the set aside slushes was there.
 We start playing board games and I ask my older cousin how he is liking the drink.
 He keeps saying it’s really good and that he barely could taste the alcohol.
 I start thinking to myself like he’s crazy because I’m feeling it.Tell me why my eight year old cousin started giving off the same vibes as me?
 We play this game called sequence where you have to place a chip on a board that matches a card you pick from your hand.
 The eight year old was missing the whole board and dropping his token on the floor.
 All of a sudden he would get angry when he lost when he’s the type to let his little brother win.
 It finally hit me and I checked his drink.
 Let’s just say he had the best sleep of his life that night and doesn’t even know why.TL;DR I brought home drinks for my family and I poured alcohol in a couple of them not thinking my cousins would grab the wrong one.893101101commentssharesave336Posted by8 hours ago2TIFU by having low self-esteem and hating myself my entire young adult life.
 I had the occasional friend here and there, but I was mostly ignored by everyone.
 This caused me to develop a self-hatred and a severe low self-esteem, that stayed with me well into adulthood, and I am now jobless and basically homeless.In my twenties the way people saw me completely turned around but I could not accept this new loving and accepting nature from other people.
 I rejected dozens of relationship opportunities and career opportunities.
 I dropped out of college numerous times, I declined job offers from professors.
 Women that I could have dated, I turned them into friendships because I could not accept that anyone would ever like me like that.
 It didn't matter if they asked me to go on dates with them or kiss me, or even take me to the bedroom, I could not accept that they viewed me any differently than when I was a teenager.I am now in my mid 30s and I have no job and am basically homeless.
 When I think about all the relationships that I could have had, it is extremely painful and I regret every second of the last 15 or so years.
 I can't believe that I have done this to myself.If you are a young adult and you hate yourself and or have low self-esteem, if people treated you poorly when you were a child, and that affects the way you perceive yourself now, you need to reread this post a dozen times and realize that this is what you are going to turn yourself into if you don't develop the courage and confidence to overcome your self-hatred and low self-esteem.I wanted relationships and I wanted a good fulfilling career, and when I was offered those things over and over and over again I turned them down like it was nothing because I had a set idea about what I deserved and that is that I deserved nothing.
 I wasn't capable, I'm not cool, I'm ugly, I'm a loser, I'm not intelligent, these are thoughts that would be playing in my head constantly, even when I aced tests, or when I was with women, it was non stop because I could not accept who I actually was and I certainly could not accept the way that other people perceived me.Now I am frantically trying to turn around my life that has been an ironic tragedy into what I wanted it to be but this time I hope I can accept the opportunities that come my way.
 I'm worried that I won't be able to do it, that I will always be stuck in this low self opinion thinking.
 I'm worried that there will be too many obstacles in my way.
 It's going to be very hard but I am going to do it and I want it, I want the life that was offered to me 15 years ago.I hope that everyone who reads this and says to themselves that sounds like me, or that could be the path I am heading on, you stop what you are doing and find the courage within yourself to do what is the right thing to do for your future self.
 Go on a hike, go for a long walk, climb a mountain and think about your inner courage and aptitude, and your strength, analyze the way you have been treating yourself and sabotaging yourself.
 You need to do this for yourself so that you do not end up wasting your life for 15 years and then realizing in your 30s that you were your own worst enemy.TL;DR - I was not well liked as a child and I carried this with me all my young adult life.
 It caused me to reject many people and drop out of college numerous times.
 Now that I am an adult it has hit me very hard how much I sabotaged myself.
 Now I am jobless and basically homeless.33656 commentssharesave2promoted•Posted by6 days agoComments are lockedTORN — World's Largest Text-Based Online RPG.
 Become the ULTIMATE Fighter!
 Be Anyone.
 Do Anything.
 Go Anywhere.
 Est.
 2004.
 Free to Play!
 This tale starts in the humble Honduran village of Peña Blanca.
 Small population, next to a nice big lake.
 I was volunteering with a local children's ministry and generally loving life.
 It had been a great day with the kids.
 I'd had some tasty baleadas with BBQ sauce for dinner.
 The numerous geckos that live in my roof were chirping, and I fell into sweet slumber listening to the gentle rain.I’d been asleep for some time, when an awful, horrid squawking awoke me.
 It didn’t take me long to realise it was one of my chickens.
 Chickens we kept to provide the children with eggs.
 But before I could do anything, the noise stopped.
 I went back to sleep.Next morning, through broken Spanish, my neighbor said an opossum, or something similar had killed and stolen two of my chooks.
 “Necesitas un machete” she said.
 “You need a machete”.
 So I went to the hardware store, picked a 28” one up for about $2, never sharpened it (they are sold blunt), and never used it.
 The animal never returned.
 But months later, when I was to leave Honduras, I took the machete with me.
 As a souvenir.
 It fit perfectly in my bag - I thought destiny was on my side!But... How wrong I was.
 How naïve!I go through San Pedro Sula airport.
 They don’t care I have it.
 I go through both Mexico City and Houston airports.
 I go through Kyiv airport, in Ukraine.
 They say in a thick accent: “chocolate; good souvenir.
 Vodka; good souvenir.
 Machete; bad souvenir.” But they let me keep it.
 Now, in my hostel in Bologna, Italy.
 The cleaning lady sees it, tells the Police.
 The Police confiscate it, but give it back after a few days because it’s so blunt it - and I quote - “could not be used as a weapon”.But when I fly from Milan into Sharm-el-Sheik, Egypt, at 11.30pm things start to go downhill.Upon checking my bags, the customs officers find my machete, segregate me from the rest of the passengers, and alert their superiors.
 I’m made to follow them to the X-ray machine, where about a dozen more of them are.
 After checking the rest of my luggage, they lead me into a small office for an interrogation, where I spend the next five hours, before they lead me to some other section of the airport.
 We wait there for another few hours, before they handcuff me and we go to the police station.
 Given I don’t speak Arabic, no one’s really told me what’s happening.
 I’m just sort of going along with the flow, hoping it will be sorted out asap.
 At the police station, they go through all of my bags again, and put me in a cell as I watch.
 They ask if I am with ISIS, if I was in Ukraine because of the war, and if they can have my ballpoint pens.
 I say no to all of these questions.
 Now, it's worth pointing out that a couple months prior to this, [a plane] was blown out of the sky by ISIS over Egypt, after departing Sharm El Sheikh - this is the reason for the heightened security.Anyway, I’m in this police station for a few more hours, before they put me in an armoured police truck and take me across the city to a small, extremely chaotic judicial house, with a couple of magistrates.
 I’m placed in a holding cell.
 Most of the others in there have some English, which is helpful.
 Before long, it’s my time to go before magistrate to explain my case.
 It takes about twenty minutes, and when I finally get to the part where I say I only had the machete to protect my chickens, I think then they decide I am no threat to the safety or integrity of their nation.
 Back to the holding cell, I wait for a few more hours, then back in the armored truck to return first police station.
 It takes a few more hungry and exasperating hours (they kept saying, do not worry, you will be let out soon), and then eventually, I’m free.
 After a total time of 26 hours in custody, I can confidently say that this put a real dampener on my otherwise very tolerable Egyptian holiday!
 I never found out if was formally charged.
 No one ever explained it to me.
 No problems when I left a week later for Morocco.So what’s the moral of the story?
 The problem (besides the effects of the abuse, of course) is that I was overly dependent on him for help sleeping and coping with my anxiety and a few other mental health issues.
 Ever since we broke up I haven’t been able to sleep properly.
 Like most mentally ill, my thoughts get kind of dark at night.
 I’m exhausted because I take 5 APs, so that makes it worse.
 Last night it got really bad at around 4 am and I was afraid to be alone.
 I have never dialed the suicide hotline (a local one) but I was sort of desperate so I called.Immediately, the voice that picks up is automatically familiar.
 He didn’t give me a name (I’m not sure if they ever do) but i knew something was extremely familiar.
 I start spilling my guts to this man: my abusive ex, the stuff he’s sent to me, my self harm, my traumatic sexual experiences, my bisexuality, my fear of being alone, my extensive stress, my suicidal thoughts.
 All of it goes into this man’s hands and we’re talking for, like, 65 minutes (again I don’t know the suicide hotline norms but to me that seemed kinda long).After you call the suicide hotline I guess there’s an option where you give them your info (name, age, stuff like that) and a counselor calls to check up on you.
 This guy thought it would benefit me so he kinda pushed it.
 My name is unique and so I immediately start spelling it out and I can hear a shift in the guy’s voice, like he knows something.
 I’m like eh whatever.
 I hang up.
 I get to sleep.
 All is well, or so I thought.I wake up and go to my first zoom class of the day: AP physics.
 The teacher starts talking and I can tell he looks pretty tired.
 Then it hits me.
 This is the guy from last night who heard me spill my entire guts to him.
 Another thing- the suicide hotline works in shifts.
 He posts materials every Sunday between like 3-5 AM, something he never does other days.
 Every time I go into the zoom meeting and we’re the only two people, it is SO awkward and I never know what to do or how to react.The fact that this man knows my life story summed up in an hour phone call sort of makes me wanna throw up.
 The awkwardness is unbearable.
 I don’t get out of school until June.TL:DR; I called the suicide hotline and my physics teacher was the crisis counselor.
 He heard me spill my entire guts.
 Class is awkward now.1032112commentssharesaveAbout CommunityWELCOME TO /r/TIFU!
 Today I Fucked Up is a community for the dumbass in all of us.
 We all have those moments where we do something ridiculously stupid.
 Let us make each other feel better about ourselves.
 Come and check it out!
 Why you should join us: It's funny, interesting, cringe-worthy, laugh-causing, smile-inducing, feel-good, ridiculous, humor, humorous, humerus, stupid, cool, awesome, but mostly because it's the best community on reddit.16.5mFuck Ups27.6kFucking UpCreated Mar 4, 2012Filter by flairSMLr/tifu Rules1.R1: Formatting2.R2: Not OP's Fuckup3.R3: Not OP's Fault4.R4: Overly Vulgar/Wanton5.R5: Not a fuckup6.R6: Uncivil/DisruptiveCertain topics always removeda.
 Obscene sexual situations, such as, but not limited to, incest, minors, and assault.
 Consensual situations between two, unrelated adults are acceptable but subject to the weekend rule.
 b. Fuckups resulting in death (including but not limited to animals) These stories are difficult to verify and are sensitive topics.
 If you or someone you know is suffering from depression and has suicidal thoughts, or if you know someone who has recently taken his or her own life, visit /r/suicidewatch.
 c. All intentionally illegal TIFUs will be removed.
 This includes (but not limited to) heavy drug use (one-time drug use is fine), sexual assault/violence, fraud, theft.
 If it was an accident, you're probably in the clear.
 Posting privilegesModerators reserve the right to remove content or restrict user posting privileges as necessary if it is deemed detrimental to the subreddit or the experience of others.
 Posting is a privilege not a right.
 Fuckup of the Week Winners June 2019 | /u/Lemiius | TIFU by performing the "Major Tom" technique and now I think I'm going to be disowned April 2019 | /u/Donthitsubmit3 | TIFU by submitting hardcore furry erotica instead of my final paper.
 May 2019 | /u/Taway1234123491121 | TIFU: I have officially branded myself as the biggest perv... and I 100% deserve it...  FUOTW Archive NotesIf a post is removed for any reason (including being removed by AutoModerator or being caught in the Reddit spam filter), you may not repost it unless you are given specific permission by a /r/tifu moderator.
 Reposting or otherwise revealing removed content in any way, whether you are the OP or not, will result in a permanent ban.
 NEW TODAY I SUB: /r/TIDTRT (I Did The Right Thing)  If you don't see your post, and you're sure it follows all of our rules, you can message us with a link to the post so we can see it.
 Feedback→ /r/IdeasforTIFU.
 nightmode: ON/OFF  TIFU April Fools | friends | TINetwork  • /r/AnimalTIFUs - animals fucking up  • /r/TifuCircleJerk - making fun of r/TIFU  • /r/pranks - Today I pranked  /r/TIFU is proudly sponsored by Olestra.
 ModeratorsMessage the modsu/kinda_aloneu/x_minus_oneu/N8theGr8u/Merari01u/GuyOneu/pHorniCaiTeu/love_the_heatu/PitchforkAssistantu/GallowBoobu/UmbrespTIFU by giving myself a flairView All ModeratorshelpReddit AppReddit coinsReddit premiumReddit giftsaboutcareerspressadvertiseblogTermsContent policyPrivacy policyMod policyReddit Inc © 2020.
 By using our Services or clicking I agree, you agree to our use of cookies.
 Shows the award.
 Eager to share it with my cousin (40m), on the way home I stopped at sonic for slushes.
 He has two kids (8m \u0026amp; 6m) and I always get them something when I come home and I wanted a chaser for the rum.
 I poured the rum in two of the slushes and set them to the side so I could use the bathroom.
 When I came back only one of the set aside slushes was there.
 We start playing board games and I ask my older cousin how he is liking the drink.
 He keeps saying it’s really good and that he barely could taste the alcohol.
 I start thinking to myself like he’s crazy because I’m feeling it.
 We play this game called sequence where you have to place a chip on a board that matches a card you pick from your hand.
 The eight year old was missing the whole board and dropping his token on the floor.
 All of a sudden he would get angry when he lost when he’s the type to let his little brother win.
 It finally hit me and I checked his drink.
 Let’s just say he had the best sleep of his life that night and doesn’t even know why.
 I am now basically homeless.
 I had the occasional friend here and there, but I was mostly ignored by everyone.
 This caused me to develop a self-hatred and a severe low self-esteem, that stayed with me well into adulthood, and I am now jobless and basically homeless.
 I rejected dozens of relationship opportunities and career opportunities.
 I dropped out of college numerous times, I declined job offers from professors.
 Women that I could have dated, I turned them into friendships because I could not accept that anyone would ever like me like that.
 It didn't matter if they asked me to go on dates with them or kiss me, or even take me to the bedroom, I could not accept that they viewed me any differently than when I was a teenager.
 When I think about all the relationships that I could have had, it is extremely painful and I regret every second of the last 15 or so years.
 I can't believe that I have done this to myself.
 I wasn't capable, I'm not cool, I'm ugly, I'm a loser, I'm not intelligent, these are thoughts that would be playing in my head constantly, even when I aced tests, or when I was with women, it was non stop because I could not accept who I actually was and I certainly could not accept the way that other people perceived me.
 I'm worried that I won't be able to do it, that I will always be stuck in this low self opinion thinking.
 I'm worried that there will be too many obstacles in my way.
 It's going to be very hard but I am going to do it and I want it, I want the life that was offered to me 15 years ago.
 Go on a hike, go for a long walk, climb a mountain and think about your inner courage and aptitude, and your strength, analyze the way you have been treating yourself and sabotaging yourself.
 You need to do this for yourself so that you do not end up wasting your life for 15 years and then realizing in your 30s that you were your own worst enemy.
 It caused me to reject many people and drop out of college numerous times.
 Now that I am an adult it has hit me very hard how much I sabotaged myself.
 Now I am jobless and basically homeless.
 Become the ULTIMATE Fighter!
 Be Anyone.
 Do Anything.
 Go Anywhere.
 Est.
 2004.
 Free to Play!
 Become the ULTIMATE Fighter!
 Be Anyone.
 Do Anything.
 Go Anywhere.
 Est.
 2004.
 Free to Play!
 This tale starts in the humble Honduran village of Peña Blanca.
 Small population, next to a nice big lake.
 I was volunteering with a local children's ministry and generally loving life.
 It had been a great day with the kids.
 I'd had some tasty baleadas with BBQ sauce for dinner.
 The numerous geckos that live in my roof were chirping, and I fell into sweet slumber listening to the gentle rain.
 It didn’t take me long to realise it was one of my chickens.
 Chickens we kept to provide the children with eggs.
 But before I could do anything, the noise stopped.
 I went back to sleep.
 “Necesitas un machete” she said.
 “You need a machete”.
 So I went to the hardware store, picked a 28” one up for about $2, never sharpened it (they are sold blunt), and never used it.
 The animal never returned.
 But months later, when I was to leave Honduras, I took the machete with me.
 As a souvenir.
 How wrong I was.
 How naïve!
 They don’t care I have it.
 I go through both Mexico City and Houston airports.
 I go through Kyiv airport, in Ukraine.
 They say in a thick accent: “chocolate; good souvenir.
 Vodka; good souvenir.
 Machete; bad souvenir.” But they let me keep it.
 Now, in my hostel in Bologna, Italy.
 The cleaning lady sees it, tells the Police.
 The Police confiscate it, but give it back after a few days because it’s so blunt it - and I quote - “could not be used as a weapon”.
 I’m made to follow them to the X-ray machine, where about a dozen more of them are.
 After checking the rest of my luggage, they lead me into a small office for an interrogation, where I spend the next five hours, before they lead me to some other section of the airport.
 We wait there for another few hours, before they handcuff me and we go to the police station.
 Given I don’t speak Arabic, no one’s really told me what’s happening.
 I’m just sort of going along with the flow, hoping it will be sorted out asap.
 At the police station, they go through all of my bags again, and put me in a cell as I watch.
 They ask if I am with ISIS, if I was in Ukraine because of the war, and if they can have my ballpoint pens.
 I say no to all of these questions.
 Now, it's worth pointing out that a couple months prior to this, [a plane] was blown out of the sky by ISIS over Egypt, after departing Sharm El Sheikh - this is the reason for the heightened security.
 I’m placed in a holding cell.
 Most of the others in there have some English, which is helpful.
 Before long, it’s my time to go before magistrate to explain my case.
 It takes about twenty minutes, and when I finally get to the part where I say I only had the machete to protect my chickens, I think then they decide I am no threat to the safety or integrity of their nation.
 Back to the holding cell, I wait for a few more hours, then back in the armored truck to return first police station.
 It takes a few more hungry and exasperating hours (they kept saying, do not worry, you will be let out soon), and then eventually, I’m free.
 After a total time of 26 hours in custody, I can confidently say that this put a real dampener on my otherwise very tolerable Egyptian holiday!
 I never found out if was formally charged.
 No one ever explained it to me.
 No problems when I left a week later for Morocco.
 Well… don't take anything sharp to Egypt, chocolates are always good souvenirs, and most importantly, well, protect your chickens!
 The problem (besides the effects of the abuse, of course) is that I was overly dependent on him for help sleeping and coping with my anxiety and a few other mental health issues.
 Ever since we broke up I haven’t been able to sleep properly.
 Like most mentally ill, my thoughts get kind of dark at night.
 I’m exhausted because I take 5 APs, so that makes it worse.
 Last night it got really bad at around 4 am and I was afraid to be alone.
 I have never dialed the suicide hotline (a local one) but I was sort of desperate so I called.
 He didn’t give me a name (I’m not sure if they ever do) but i knew something was extremely familiar.
 I start spilling my guts to this man: my abusive ex, the stuff he’s sent to me, my self harm, my traumatic sexual experiences, my bisexuality, my fear of being alone, my extensive stress, my suicidal thoughts.
 All of it goes into this man’s hands and we’re talking for, like, 65 minutes (again I don’t know the suicide hotline norms but to me that seemed kinda long).
 This guy thought it would benefit me so he kinda pushed it.
 My name is unique and so I immediately start spelling it out and I can hear a shift in the guy’s voice, like he knows something.
 I’m like eh whatever.
 I hang up.
 I get to sleep.
 All is well, or so I thought.
 The teacher starts talking and I can tell he looks pretty tired.
 Then it hits me.
 This is the guy from last night who heard me spill my entire guts to him.
 Another thing- the suicide hotline works in shifts.
 He posts materials every Sunday between like 3-5 AM, something he never does other days.
 Every time I go into the zoom meeting and we’re the only two people, it is SO awkward and I never know what to do or how to react.
 The awkwardness is unbearable.
 I don’t get out of school until June.
 He heard me spill my entire guts.
 Class is awkward now.
 She brought me home this morning to introduce me to her parents and siblings.
 Her mom was a sweetheart, her siblings were awesome, and her dad was trying to be intimidating by cleaning his guns while staring at me but the whole “scary dad” thing is just funny to me, so.
 I stayed over for a couple of hours and she asked if I wanted to ride around with her so we could be alone.
 I said sure and she told her parents.
 Her dad told me “Anything you do to her I’ll do to you” and I sarcastically + jokingly said “Well it’s a good thing I’m bisexual.” He just stood there looking at me in surprise but then started laughing, and her mom followed suit.
 They were all amused except my girlfriend who was concerned that I basically just admitted to them we’ve had sex before.
 I didn’t even realize I had technically did that.
 She dragged me out of the house and told me she was originally gonna buy me frozen yogurt (My favorite) but now I won’t get any because of my awkward joke.
 She bought everyone in her family some, including herself, and I watched them all eat.
 I missed out on some good fro-yo.
 It sucked y’all.
 Her dad was trying to scare me and intimidate me but I wasn’t buying it.
 Her and I left the house later but before we did, her dad said “Anything you do to her I’ll do to you.” In response, I said “Well it’s a good thing I’m bisexual.” And to my surprise he started laughing.
 My girlfriend however was mortified and dragged me away.
 She bought everyone froyo (which is my absolute favorite) and didn’t buy me any because of my awkward joke.
 I watched everyone enjoy some froyo while I sat there sadly.
 It’s in the other edit, but I’m putting this up here for visibility since it’s come up in a lot of messages.
 Also, all y’all getting political and sending angry PMs, chill.
 I had an appointment this morning to get a filling replaced and of course, the second I leave my apartment the fireworks and cheering start so I check my phone and lo and behold Biden has claimed Pennsylvania.
 I just say, \"It looks like they've called the election for Biden\" with no indication of preference one way or another.
 I was going to mention how I missed the news announcement and leave it at that.
 Instead, as soon as I mention it the dentist gets a look of total defeat on his face and then starts going off, calmly, about how the machines were having errors in MI, fake ballots, voter fraud, and having to recount all the states or something.
 At this point he has proceeded to drill my mouth, not fully numb, terrified and in pain.
 I've never been more scared in my life worried that I upset the guy working on my mouth.
 It hurt.
 Also, I just want to add based on a lot of the comments, the dentist was never angry or malicious.
 They were just calmly explaining their “theories” while operating, to the assistant.
 Definitely distracted, which is why I think I didn’t get enough numbing agent at first, but nothing to file any complaints about.
 I also asked for more numbing agent after a few minuets and things were fine after that.
 So I (47M) have a 12 year old son.
 Before the pandemic he was having a birthday party that I went to.
 It was a paintball party with some friends.
 It was me, my son, and some of his friends and another dad about my age.
 All of us were playing paintball including me and the dad.
 We were all having fun and we were going to do the final match of the day.
 All the courses we had been on we're pretty big and mostly natural things.
 The courses were mostly trees with a few barrels.
 This final one though was just a reasonably small field with only some blow up barriers for cover.
 Everyone was dodging and shooting.
 And I, seeing a ripe opportunity shot at one of the kids who was about 25 feet away.
 I was aiming at his chest but it went right down and hit him square in the Nuts.
 So the kid falls down and just lays there in pain.
 Soon everyone is crowded around him and making sure he was okay.
 He gets up about a minute or two later and walks around sort of limping the rest of the day.
 Accidentally shot a kid in his nuts.
 We used to hang out a lot, but contrary to most other Reddit posts that start like this, no, we never did anything sexual and we never even talked about anything sexual at all.
 But one day when I was hanging at Justin’s house waiting for him to get home, I decided to look through his night stand, and found what I would later know as a fleshlight.
 At the time, I didn’t know what fleshlights were, but I had a good idea of what pussies looked like and I very quickly pieced together what I had found.
 Now for the fuck up.
 Being a horny and hormonal kid, I decided to grab it and take it into his bathroom for a quick, 2 minute try-out and then pretend like nothing ever happened.
 Unfortunately, having zero knowledge of it, I didn’t know I needed lube.
 So I got myself hard and (cringing now) forced my dick all the way into the bone dry fleshlight.
 And then it happened, it was completely stuck.
 I went completely soft, but it made no difference, it was like it was superglued to my skin.
 At this point I really began panicking and trying to do anything I can to get it off before Justin got home.
 I tried stepping in the shower, pouring soap at the entrance, and pulling so hard my dick was literally bruising.
 I then saw only one more option short of calling 911.
 I tucked it in my pants, and went downstairs into his kitchen and casually got a knife and brought it back upstairs.
 In hindsight, I have no idea what his poor mom must have thought, watching me walk into her kitchen with an comically large bulge and grab a knife, but she never said anything.
 Back in his room, I began CAREFULLY cutting off pieces of the unmoving fleshlight bit by bit.
 Eventually, I was able to release myself and flushed all the little fleshlight pieces down his toilet.
 I kid you not, not one minute after the ordeal, my friend came home.
 That day, I just played it cool and acted like nothing had happened.
 The next day however, Justin met up with me and kinda side-skirtingly asked me if I had taken anything from his room.
 I finally just burst out in guilt and told him the entire story.
 He just burst out laughing and said that, as long as I bought him a new one, it would be fine.
 I still don’t know why I didn’t just lie and say that I just stole it from him, which would have been so much less embarrassing, but oh well.
 He still brings it up to this day, but I guess it must have made us closer friends or something, who knows.
 Moral of the story, don’t be an idiot.
 TL;DR: I got my dick stuck in my friend’s fleshlight, leading to years of embarrassment.
 Two weeks ago I decided to get rid of the excessive weight again and the best way to do it was to count calories.
 Since I am already a healthy eater and avoid processed foods I would not need to change my lifestyle very much but a little exercise, cutting down on alcohol and having an eye on the amount of consumed calories should do the trick.
 The wonder of modern technology - no need to feel hungry if you just follow the simple suggestions and eat this food with this astonishing low amount of calories.
 And the first 2-3 weeks you won't see much of a difference on the scale.
 The recipes contained a lot of ingredients like \"Quinoa\" or \"Couscous\" I was not familiar with.
 The text said: 2 servings.
 I scrolled down to the list of nutrients.
 There it was: Nutrients and calories for one serving.
 I am single.
 I eat alone.
 With a feeling of defeat I changed the number of servings to one and then I finished preparing the food, setting aside half of it for dinner.
 I woke up, and continued to lay down for a moment, looking at the ceiling.
 Just thinking about how and when I should start my day.
 After a few minutes, I got up, stretched, and walked to the bathroom first.
 Cue piss.
 Last week on election day in the U.S., I thought I'd take the chance to teach my 3rd grade class (20 students, 8 years-old) about voting.
 Being the 100th anniversary of women's suffrage, I decided to only allow the boys to vote for the person they wanted as president (I did allow the girls after!).
 I gave them each a printed copy of the ballot and showed them where to color in the bubble next to the name of the person they wanted to vote for.
 The boys voted while the girls asked why they weren't allowed to vote.
 When the boys were done, I asked them what they thought.
 One boy said he thought it was weird to vote since he isn't 18.
 We had a good discussion, then I asked the girls what they thought.
 They were understandably pretty ticked about being banned from voting.
 We talked about how women weren't always allowed to vote, and neither were people of color.
 Then, I finally let the girls vote.
 I told the class it was a good practice election, and it would be interesting to see how it really goes this week when we see who wins.
 One of the girls looked quite surprised at this.
 She raised her hand and said, \"Wait, this was fake?
 I thought this was real!\" Then several other students agreed that they thought they were really voting and that their vote would really count.
 Not only had I ticked off all of the girls by now, but most of the class as well as they were under the impression that this was all real.
 I reminded the class that you have to be 18 to vote, but they didn't think that was a fair rule.
 As soon as I told them to get ready, I heard one student interrogating the other students to see if they were the 1 person who didn't vote for Trump (the majority of the class voted Trump, while only 1 student voted Biden).
 I had to shut that down pretty quickly.
 Thought I was teaching them a lesson about government and history but ended up ticking them all off and pitting them against each other.
 Whenever someone said \"informercial\" to you, you had to fail at whatever you were doing.
 It was hilarious and we all enjoyed it, until I decided to fall at standing.
 I pretended to twist and fall down, except I was suddenly actually on the ground and my knee was in horrendous pain.
 My friends helped me to reception (where we got first aid) and I couldn't put any weight on my knee.
 Parents took me to hospital in the evening, and the doctor reckoned that when I twisted, I dislocated my knee and hitting the ground popped it back in.
 Was given painkillers, a brace and told to take it easy.
 Over the years, my knee has slowly gotten worse.
 Too much exercise, it hurts, weather starts getting cold, it hurts.
 Went off to physio therapy and turns out that the muscles are trying to pull my knee cap off to one side, triggered by the dislocation.
 Now my knee is playing up majorly and I think I might need to seek medical attention for it, again.
 Luckily I made the connection and mentioned the alcohol.
 On my 18th birthday my friend and I (same bday) went to her family’s property in the woods with a bunch of our friends.
 I had never drank before and didn’t plan on it but I was bored.
 I had 2 more and was having the time of my life.
 Earlier my friend who I brought there was like “haha you have to calm down”.
 Yet I kept forgetting every 3 seconds.
 I ended up spilling my drink on her without noticing and felt so bad.
 So bad that I cried for the next hour about how bad of a person I was till I passed out.
 Sadly she's been in a few bad relationships before going out into the dating scene and specifically mentioned on our first date that she didn't want to have sex right away, at least not for a few months.
 I didn't realize \"netflix and chill\" was an actual euphemism that meant hookup and I thought the memes were just people making fun of it.
 It consisted of 85 healthcare graduate students and three doctorate professors- there was even a guest speaker there.
 I decided to go find my roommate’s kitten and force him to cuddle with me.
 My roommate is in the same program/ Zoom class as me, and she was watching the lecture from her bedroom.
 I waltzed into my roommate’s room and saw the kitten snuggled up next to her in a blanket, so I loudly exclaimed, “Hiiiiii baaaaaaby!
 I happened to be half Italian and speak the language natively so I applied for one of those positions.
 After that interview there was another video interview.
 And this is the one I screwed up.
 He asked me about my previous experiences, my strengths and weaknesses, you know, typical interview bullshit.
 And then he told me we're doing a roleplay, and since he specialises in airlines support (not what I'll be supporting), he was to give me a typical airline call situation.
 I thought oh boy this is gonna be good.
 Politely and calmly I informed him of the above-mentioned policy.
 He said that it's quite urgent that he carries his cat on the plane and whether or not there's anything I can do to make it happen.
 The first thought that came to my mind was to smuggle him under his jacket, and the more I tried to unthink it, the harder I laughed.
 He said no.
 No animal is allowed on the plane and I had to be creative about the solutions.
 That's it.
 I lost it.
 He said no.
 Okay what about hiring someone to take care of the cat?
 He also said no.
 Alright.
 Then what about looking up an organisation that shelters animals or something like that.
 He also said no.
 This is when he said okay thank you I'll try to find an organisation.
 So, I have always had quite bad toilet anxiety, it took me nearly a over a year of dating this one girl to be able to take a dump in her presence.
 Her bedroom was a state so we used to stay in a cabin in her back yard.
 One night at roughly 4am, I awoke with a bad stomach cramp.
 I told my girlfriend at the time that I felt sick.
 I went inside the house to use the toilet to take a dump.
 As I went up the stairs, her mum called her name to make sure no one had broken in, I responded with “no, it’s just me, I was asked to grab something out of her room”.
 So I pretended to grab something, went downstairs, entered the kitchen, stuffed kitchen paper in my pocket and headed back down to the log cabin and got back into bed.
 I told my partner at the time that I feel super sick again so I grabbed the bag out of the trash, went behind the cabin, pulled down my pj’s and shat in the bag while pretending to vomit, wiping my burning ass with rough kitchen paper.
 The bag was quite full...
 I then had to walk the streets carrying a bag of my own crap to find a dog poop bin to put my “sick” in.
 I was laying down in the tub kept rocking back in forth to make waves.
 I noticed that when making waves I would slide back and forth and my younger self thought that was pretty cool.
 My bathroom is on the second floor of our house and suddenly my parents ran up to my bathroom asking what I was doing.
 They said that water was coming out of the vent on the first floor.
 I just blamed it on accidentally overflowing the bathtub and they didn’t blame me.
 A couple of months ago we got a dust test for an unrelated reason.
 They found that there were traces of mold near my bathroom.
 Now, my bathroom will most likely have to get torn out while they get rid of the mold, costing my parents thousands and thousands of dollars.
 He is a complete idiot, and I love him to pieces.
 I like to pick him up when he's not too stressed out, but each goddam time I take him out of his enclosure, he takes a cold, slimy, diarrhoea dump in the area, filled with solid pee (urates) and digested bug.
 And when I say it smells, it really smells.
 Like seventh circle of hell smell.
 His faeces is about the size of my thumbnail, but it smells more than a dog's, with that reptilian aftertaste.
 It's gotten everywhere, on my white carpet, in my hair, on my bed, on my clothes, my friend's clothes, the list goes on.
 I took the shitting to be a sign of fear, like the fight or flight survival instinct, so whenever he poops, I immediately put him back (also the runny faeces is usually a sign of stress).
 However, when I put him on my desk to do my homework, I notice my gremlin lifting up his leg, and unsticking his pads.
 It looked familiar, until he took a phat shit all over my desk.
 I then realized this was the exact same body behaviour that I used to do to force one out when I was little, when nothing was there.
 And so, I've been training my gecko with positive re-enforcement to shit on me whenever I pick him up.
 I just remembered it because I read a post on here.
 I drove my scooter to class everyday as I was lazy and lived on the campus.
 (It only took me up to a minute to get to class with the scooter) So one day after I come out of class and walk to the carpark I realise my scooter is missing.
 So I panic and call my brother who tells me to call the cops.
 I quickly hop on google to find the emergency number.
 I search for Hamilton Police Department and Google spits out a phone number.
 Now in my adrenaline rush I didn't look properly and just called it.
 Police: Excuse me sir, are you calling us from NEW ZEALAND?
 Me: Uh yeah?
 Police: Sir this is the Police Department in Hamilton Ontario Canada.
 I apologized and hung up, I was pretty embarrassed.
 I then called up my local police department and made a report and had my scooter registered as stolen.
 So I walked home after searching the campus and asking security if they had seen it.
 The cameras didn't show me arrive as I always park in an unofficial part of the carpark.
 At this point I had spent about 2h stressing and searching and was pretty upset.
 As I finally walked down the driveway to my house I saw my scooter parked where I had left it the previous day.
 In all my stress with assignments and exams I had forgotten that I had walked to class that day.
 I then had to call up the police again, apologize for my idiocy, call up campus security and my brother all because I forgot I walked to class that day.
 Called the cops on a different continent to have it reported and was laughed at.
 Then have it registered stolen in my country, only to finally walk home and realize that I left it at home and I wasted hours stressing and freaking out.
 I can't remember for sure if it happened at Mammoth Campgrounds in Yellowstone or not, but I do know it happened in Yellowstone.
 I was a stubborn 9 year old who assumed I knew better than anyone else.
 I was having too much fun staying up and listening to the night animals and looking through the telescope to listen.
 So of course, I slept through the morning hike.
 We had been planning to leave the park, having been there a few days already, after the hike ended around lunch time.
 Well, more like 40 obstacles.
 A herd of bison had moved into the camp ground to graze and were just passing through.
 They were grazing and enjoying taking their sweet time.
 Another RV set up nearby had left lunch out and one bison proudly helped himself to a loaf of bread while a youngster tried to figure out the ways of peanut butter.
 However, the excitement of the bison that close had woken me.
 I was in the back of the RV where we had two twin beds and another bed that went above those beds where the headboard would be on a normal bed.
 I had crawled from that headboard bed to look out the window and right below me was a 2,000 pound animal sniffing at one of the back tires of the RV.
 He was investigating a scent on the tire, obviously very interested to smell the different scents we had picked up while traveling around for several states.
 He was in the right, not the stupid child who thought it was an AMAZING idea to open both the sliding window on the side and the sliding screen.
 Now at around six feet tall, I was not nearly long enough to reach him by just bending out the RV at the middle.
 I decided then that I could climb out a little farther and, as children do, I lost my balance.
 50 pounds of human weight was nothing to a 2,000 pound animal.
 However, several predators weigh a little less than what I did at the time.
 It did really well but I figured people might be interested in seeing it who were interested in how animals run, because I've seen loads of videos of dogs and horses etc running in slow motion but none of small rodents and honestly it's quite different.
 Perfect!
 I think.
 This will be a sub for overweight animals like my chonky fellow!
 So cute!
 So I go into this sub and... well its porn.
 It's just slow motion porn.
 Which I'm not traumatised by or anything but I really dont watch porn at the best of times and it certainly wasn't what I needed to see over my cereal this morning.
 Happy team, happier customers.
 Happy team, happier customers.
 Sometimes, those actions are driven by significant insecurities and depends on how extreme they are.
 Everyone experiences them differently.
 I, for one, am in a pretty good position in life.
 I have a career, graduated college, am a physical therapist, have my puppy, have a new car, and just bought a house.
 I'm in my late 20's.
 I have fought a lot of inner demons and have won.
 I came a long way from losing everything I had (money, school, job, etc) to something in my life.
 I felt worthless.
 Getting cheated on by someone I fully trusted lead me to completely break down and lose everything I had (stated before) because of the effect it had on me.
 I can deal with stress and difficult issues, but the toll this took on me was different.
 I invest a lot in my relationships, whether it's with family, friends, or lovers.
 And when I get screwed over, I take it very personal.
 I grew up being alone, no siblings, my cousins lived far, I sucked at school, i got bullied every day for years, everyone thought I was weird, barely any friends, it was great.
 🙄 I'm a sensitive dude, what can I say.
 I have not had a single relationship last me more than a year.
 Throughout these few years, every girlfriend has dumped me because I was either too \"needy\" or I didn't trust them, which ultimately has me acting anxious or has me doing/saying weird things.
 I have been going to therapy for a few years now, and everything was going great!
 But for whatever reason, trusting someone has been very difficult for me when it came to intimate relationships.
 I have walked in on girlfriends having sex with other dudes when I visit them from out of state for a surprise.
 I have had girlfriends think I was crazy for thinking they had a thing for my best friend, only to find out that she has been trying to text him behind my back and he went along with it.
 I've been hit hard.
 We instantly clicked, I really like her.
 I know what I want, so I knew I wanted her.
 Out of all the women I dated (my confidence levels have gone up immensely since therapy and working on myself), this girl won me over.
 I haven't been this excited about someone in a long time, and with all the women I have dated.
 She's beautiful, smart, hardworking, sweet, funny, fuck... my hearts racing just talking about her.
 She did not ever have any complaints about me, but this one thing I did....and I did it because I was insecure in my ability to have someone not cheat on me or be good enough.
 My intention was to see if she was worth while before I invest more time and feelings into her.
 I felt the need to protect myself, I just wanted security.
 It turns out she was honest the whole time.
 I was happy to find that out.
 Not so happy when she found out it was me.
 I don't know how she found out, I didn't tell anyone (not trying to justify doing it).
 She called me out on it, and it took a while for me to fess up to it.
 It was incredibly embarrassing, and it was hard to own up to.
 Now, I'm sitting in my room typing this out with full regret and feeling of stupidity because how can a grown man do something so childish?
 I lost someone who had every potential to reciprocate the love and effort I give, but my stupid insecurities drove her away.
 She no longer talks to me, she is ignoring me, and I don't blame her.
 But I don't know how.
 Any advice on what I should do?
 I really want to win this girl over.
 \n\nToday I Fucked Up is a community for the dumbass in all of us.
 We all have those moments where we do something ridiculously stupid.
 Let us make each other feel better about ourselves.
 Come and check it out!\n\nWhy you should join us: It's funny, interesting, cringe-worthy, laugh-causing, smile-inducing, feel-good, ridiculous, humor, humorous, humerus, stupid, cool, awesome, but mostly because it's the best community on reddit.
 \n\nToday I Fucked Up is a community for the dumbass in all of us.
 We all have those moments where we do something ridiculously stupid.
 Let us make each other feel better about ourselves.
 Come and check it out!\n\nWhy you should join us: It's funny, interesting, cringe-worthy, laugh-causing, smile-inducing, feel-good, ridiculous, humor, humorous, humerus, stupid, cool, awesome, but mostly because it's the best community on reddit.
 **Reposting or otherwise revealing removed content in any way, whether you are the OP or not, will result in a permanent ban.
 June 2019 | /u/Lemiius |\n[TIFU by performing the \"Major Tom\" technique and now I think I'm going to be disowned](https://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/c7kqjl/tifu_by_performing_the_major_tom_technique_and/)\n\n2.
 April 2019 | /u/Donthitsubmit3 | [TIFU by submitting hardcore furry erotica instead of my final paper.](https://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/bgvmdp/tifu_by_submitting_hardcore_furry_erotica_instead/)\n\n3.
 All posts must start with **TIFU** or **TIFUpdate** which stands for Today I Fucked Up\n\nB.
 All posts must be at least 750 characters long.\n\nC.
 All posts must contain a TL;DR (Too Long; Didn't Read) at the end summarizing your post.
 All posts must start with \u003Cstrong\u003ETIFU\u003C/strong\u003E or \u003Cstrong\u003ETIFUpdate\u003C/strong\u003E which stands for Today I Fucked Up\u003C/p\u003E\n\n\u003Cp\u003EB.
 All posts must be at least 750 characters long.\u003C/p\u003E\n\n\u003Cp\u003EC.
 No reposting someone else's story.
 No posts about your grandma's fuckup, or the fuckup of someone in the news/history.
 No reposting someone else\u0026#39;s story.
 No victim blaming.\n\nNo TIFU by getting \n\n* robbed\n* scammed\n* raped\n* cheated on\n* etc\n\nThose are not your fault.
 **Those are not your fault.
 **\n\nJust because something bad happened to you doesn't mean that it's your fault.
 Someone else chose to commit a crime, you didn't choose to have a crime committed against you.
 No victim blaming.\u003C/p\u003E\n\n\u003Cp\u003ENo TIFU by getting \u003C/p\u003E\n\n\u003Cul\u003E\n\u003Cli\u003Erobbed\u003C/li\u003E\n\u003Cli\u003Escammed\u003C/li\u003E\n\u003Cli\u003Eraped\u003C/li\u003E\n\u003Cli\u003Echeated on\u003C/li\u003E\n\u003Cli\u003Eetc\u003C/li\u003E\n\u003C/ul\u003E\n\n\u003Cp\u003EThose are not your fault.
 \u003Cstrong\u003EThose are not your fault.\u003C/strong\u003E\u003C/p\u003E\n\n\u003Cp\u003EJust because something bad happened to you doesn\u0026#39;t mean that it\u0026#39;s your fault.
 Use your better judgement.
 \n\n- **Disruptive** such as posting, or seeking, any identifying personal information (real/fake).
 This includes yourself or others, and refers, but is not limited to, names, phone numbers, email addresses, or any social media accounts.
 As well as brigading with either votes or comments.\n\n- No low-effort \"this didn't happen\" type comments.
 Use your better judgement.
 \u003C/p\u003E\u003C/li\u003E\n\u003Cli\u003E\u003Cp\u003E\u003Cstrong\u003EDisruptive\u003C/strong\u003E such as posting, or seeking, any identifying personal information (real/fake).
 This includes yourself or others, and refers, but is not limited to, names, phone numbers, email addresses, or any social media accounts.
 ** Obscene sexual situations, such as, but not limited to, incest, minors, and assault.
 Consensual situations between two, unrelated adults are acceptable but subject to the weekend rule.
 \n\n**b.
 ** Fuckups resulting in death (including but not limited to animals)\n\nThese stories are difficult to verify and are sensitive topics.
 If you or someone you know is suffering from depression and has suicidal thoughts, or if you know someone who has recently taken his or her own life, visit /r/suicidewatch.\n\n**c.** All intentionally illegal TIFUs will be removed.\n\nThis includes (but not limited to) heavy drug use (one-time drug use is fine), sexual assault/violence, fraud, theft.
 If it was an accident, you're probably in the clear.
 Consensual situations between two, unrelated adults are acceptable but subject to the weekend rule.
 \u003C/p\u003E\n\n\u003Cp\u003E\u003Cstrong\u003Eb.\u003C/strong\u003E Fuckups resulting in death (including but not limited to animals)\u003C/p\u003E\n\n\u003Cp\u003EThese stories are difficult to verify and are sensitive topics.
