NEJM Journal Watch  Concise summaries and expert physician commentary that busy clinicians need to enhance patient care.
 NEJM Knowledge +  The most effective and engaging way for clinicians to learn, improve their practice, and prepare for board exams.
 NEJM Catalyst  NEW!
 Peer-reviewed journal featuring in-depth articles to accelerate the transformation of health care delivery.
 NEJM Resident 360  Information, resources, and support needed to approach rotations - and life as a resident.
 NEJM Career Center  Valuable tools for building a rewarding career in health care.
 NEJM Library Hub  Information and tools for librarians about site license offerings.
 NEJM 医学前沿  The authorized source of trusted medical research and education for the Chinese-language medical community.
 The New England Journal of Medicine  The most trusted, influential source of new medical knowledge and clinical best practices in the world.
 383  No.
 19        Recent Issues          October 29, 2020  Vol.
 383  No.
 18                October 22, 2020  Vol.
 383  No.
 17                October 15, 2020  Vol.
 383  No.
 16         Browse full issue index   Browse recently published    Browse full issue index    Recently Published Articles          Racial Disproportionality in Covid Clinical Trials                   Transgender Women on College Athletic Teams — The Case of Lindsay Hecox        J. Dolgin           Early Spread of SARS-CoV-2 in the Icelandic Population                   Preterm Birth and 17OHP — Why the FDA Should Not Withdraw Approval        M.F.
 Greene et al.
 Withdrawing Approval of Makena — A Proposal from the FDA Center for Drug Evaluation and Research        C.Y.
 Chang et al.
 SARS-CoV-2 Neutralizing Antibody LY-CoV555 in Outpatients with Covid-19        P. Chen et al.
 Browse recently published      Learning/CME            Learning/CME          CME            Remdesivir for the Treatment of Covid-19 — Final Report                    Colchicine in Patients with Chronic Coronary Disease                    Migraine             Clinical Cases Resource Center           Interactive Medical Cases          Image Challenge           Videos in Clinical Medicine        NEJM Resident 360   NEJM Knowledge+   View all learning/CME    View all learning/CME      Other NEJM Group Learning        Hand Hygiene      Essential information students and residents need to approach residency with confidence: practical training information, career guidance, insightful discussions.
 Effective, adaptive learning that helps you prepare for certification, maintain competency, and sharpen clinical decision-making while earning CME and MOC.
 Article               Figures/Media             Metrics        24 References198
        Citing ArticlesRelated ArticlesAbstract BackgroundPatients with noninfectious uveitis are at risk for long-term complications of uncontrolled inflammation, as well as for the adverse effects of long-term glucocorticoid therapy.
 We conducted a trial to assess the efficacy and safety of adalimumab as a glucocorticoid-sparing agent for the treatment of noninfectious uveitis.
 MethodsThis multinational phase 3 trial involved adults who had active noninfectious intermediate uveitis, posterior uveitis, or panuveitis despite having received prednisone treatment for 2 or more weeks.
 Investigators and patients were unaware of the study-group assignments.
 Patients were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive adalimumab (a loading dose of 80 mg followed by a dose of 40 mg every 2 weeks) or matched placebo.
 All patients received a mandatory prednisone burst followed by tapering of prednisone over the course of 15 weeks.
 The primary efficacy end point was the time to treatment failure occurring at or after week 6.
 Treatment failure was a multicomponent outcome that was based on assessment of new inflammatory lesions, best corrected visual acuity, anterior chamber cell grade, and vitreous haze grade.
 Nine ranked secondary efficacy end points were assessed, and adverse events were reported.
 ResultsThe median time to treatment failure was 24 weeks in the adalimumab group and 13 weeks in the placebo group.
 Sign In or Renew                    Back to top       Article Categories   Research   Reviews   Clinical Cases   Perspective   Commentary   Other   Browse all Articles   Current Issue   Issue Index     Resources   Authors &amp; Reviewers   Submit a Manuscript   Subscribers   Institutions   Media   Advertisers   Agents   Permissions          Reprints         NEJM CareerCenter     About Us   About NEJM   Products &amp; Services   Editors &amp; Publishers   Advertising Policies   Contact Us   Accessibility   FAQs   Help   Site Feedback     Subscriptions   Subscribe   Renew   Activate Subscription   Create Account   Manage Account   Pay Bill   Special Offers     Stay Connected   Email Alerts   Create Account   Apps   NEJM CareerCenter   Podcasts   RSS Feed   Remote Access     Follow Us             Facebook                   Twitter                   Instagram              YouTube                   LinkedIn             Copyright © 2020 Massachusetts Medical Society.
 All rights reserved.
 Electronic ISSN 1533-4406.
 Print ISSN 0028-4793.
 The content of this site is intended for health care professionals.
