1, 2017This can be attributed to Director of Social and Emotional Learning Peter Price: The SEL department has provided the Welcoming Schools professional development to 24 elementary school campuses at their request over the past three years.
 Welcoming Schools is not a curriculum, but a training for teachers to provide safe, supportive, inclusive environments for students and their families and to create a conversation among adults on campus to examine our language and practices.
 The training embraces family diversity, avoids gender stereotyping and prevents bullying.
 The principal is present for the six-hour training, which takes places throughout the year.
 A parent information letter is sent home at the start of the school year, and parents are invited to attend one of the modules.
 Teachers are not required to use nongender-specific pronouns.
 Take care,Tiffany YoungSenior Communication SpecialistAustin Independent School District11:28 a.m.Attached is the list of schools that have gone through the training as well as what year they took the training.
 Tiffany Young2:56 p.m.Here's another response from Pete that I think responds to the statement: I think one of the biggest misconceptions about our Welcoming Schools training for teachers is that they turn around after the training and present a curriculum/lessons to students about LGTBQ topics.
 That does not happen.
 The training is for adults, so they can be better prepared to welcome all students to our schools and to ensure all students feel safe and valued.
 There is no curriculum or lessons for the students.
 And I confirmed that the training is a one-year training for staff.Tiffany YoungSenior Communication SpecialistAustin Independent School DistrictFrom: Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin)Sent: Tuesday, August 1, 2017 2:57:49 PMTo: Tiffany YoungSubject: RE: Fresh inquiry for a fact-check What’s available for me to see per the training materials?3:23 p.m.For specific training modules, please contact Welcoming Schools.
 I found this on their general website: http://www.welcomingschools.org/training/professional-development-modules/ Tiffany Young3:44 p.m.What schools are doing the training in 2017-18?
 None are scheduled for 2017-2018.
 Why did Kiker Elementary suspend after module 3?
 That was a campus-based decision on how to move forward.
 Can you provide a copy of the letter sent to parents?
 Letters in English and Spanish attached.
 Tiffany YoungFrom: Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin)Sent: Tuesday, August 1, 2017 3:25:36 PMTo: Tiffany YoungSubject: Checking on a web post related to the claim Does the district consider this January 2017 web post inaccurate in any way?5:07 p.m.Yes—Again, Welcoming Schools is not a curriculum, but a training for teachers to provide safe, supportive, inclusive environments for students and their families and to create a conversation among adults on campus to examine our language and practices.From: Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin)Sent: Tuesday, August 1, 2017 5:45 PMTo: Tiffany YoungSubject: RE: Fresh inquiry for a fact-check Why are no schools doing the training in 2018-18?
 And to be clear, are you unable to share the modules with us or not willing?
 Your reply on this front was the first time since our initial inquiry that we heard the materials weren’t directly viewable or accessible from the district.
 Maybe I misunderstand.
 g.8:01 a.m.Aug.
 2, 2017Our SEL department is looking into creating its own training program in the future for teachers and is taking the next year to develop it.
 I don't have access to the modules and have been told by staff that there is no quick way for them to access the materials either.
 Tiffany YoungSenior Communication Specialist1:33 p.m.Sept.
 8, 2017Here are responses to your questions: It seemed clear from the documents the district permitted me to review this week that lists of picture books about gender identity have been made and perhaps widely distributed to schools.
 Can you elaborate on that?
 Again, these are resources that are shared with teachers during training and not distributed to students.
 There are lists of resources available to teachers if they want to learn more about these subjects outside of the training.
 Also, I see, Welcoming Schools lesson plans present gender identity discussions including definitions and mentions of identity being on a spectrum.
 Does the district administration know the degree to which Austin’s teachers, especially in the earliest grades, are using these lesson plans and suggested books to discuss gender identity as fluid?
 If so, what is the degree of adoption or usage?The district has not adopted a Welcoming Schools curriculum or lesson plans.
 We are not aware of any elementary school teachers who are teaching gender fluidity.
 Welcoming Schools training in AISD emphasizes for teachers ways to create a safe and inclusive environment for our diverse students, families and staff.
 :MSIE|rv)[: ]([^\);]+)(\)|;)/.exec(a);if(Sa)return/WebKit\/(\S+)/.exec(a);if(Oa)return/(?
 :Version)[ \/]?
