NEJM Journal Watch  Concise summaries and expert physician commentary that busy clinicians need to enhance patient care.
 NEJM Knowledge +  The most effective and engaging way for clinicians to learn, improve their practice, and prepare for board exams.
 NEJM Catalyst  NEW!
 Peer-reviewed journal featuring in-depth articles to accelerate the transformation of health care delivery.
 NEJM Resident 360  Information, resources, and support needed to approach rotations - and life as a resident.
 NEJM Career Center  Valuable tools for building a rewarding career in health care.
 NEJM Library Hub  Information and tools for librarians about site license offerings.
 NEJM 医学前沿  The authorized source of trusted medical research and education for the Chinese-language medical community.
 The New England Journal of Medicine  The most trusted, influential source of new medical knowledge and clinical best practices in the world.
 383  No.
 19        Recent Issues          October 29, 2020  Vol.
 383  No.
 18                October 22, 2020  Vol.
 383  No.
 17                October 15, 2020  Vol.
 383  No.
 16         Browse full issue index   Browse recently published    Browse full issue index    Recently Published Articles          Racial Disproportionality in Covid Clinical Trials                   Transgender Women on College Athletic Teams — The Case of Lindsay Hecox        J. Dolgin           Early Spread of SARS-CoV-2 in the Icelandic Population                   Preterm Birth and 17OHP — Why the FDA Should Not Withdraw Approval        M.F.
 Greene et al.
 Withdrawing Approval of Makena — A Proposal from the FDA Center for Drug Evaluation and Research        C.Y.
 Chang et al.
 SARS-CoV-2 Neutralizing Antibody LY-CoV555 in Outpatients with Covid-19        P. Chen et al.
 Browse recently published      Learning/CME            Learning/CME          CME            Remdesivir for the Treatment of Covid-19 — Final Report                    Colchicine in Patients with Chronic Coronary Disease                    Migraine             Clinical Cases Resource Center           Interactive Medical Cases          Image Challenge           Videos in Clinical Medicine        NEJM Resident 360   NEJM Knowledge+   View all learning/CME    View all learning/CME      Other NEJM Group Learning        Hand Hygiene      Essential information students and residents need to approach residency with confidence: practical training information, career guidance, insightful discussions.
 Effective, adaptive learning that helps you prepare for certification, maintain competency, and sharpen clinical decision-making while earning CME and MOC.
 Videos in Clinical MedicineHow to Obtain a Nasopharyngeal Swab SpecimenList of authors.Francisco M. Marty, M.D., Kaiwen Chen, B.S., and Kelly A. Verrill, R.N.
 Video               Figures/Media             Metrics            Related Articles
     Download Video (MP4)
    The following text summarizes information provided in the video.Overview Collection of specimens from the surface of the respiratory mucosa with nasopharyngeal swabs is a procedure used for the diagnosis of Covid-19 in adults and children.1-4 The procedure is also commonly used to evaluate patients with suspected respiratory infection caused by other viruses and some bacteria.
 This video describes the collection of nasopharyngeal specimens for detection of Covid-19, the illness caused by infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).
 There are no specific contraindications for collecting specimens with nasopharyngeal swabs.
 However, clinicians should be cautious if the patient has had recent nasal trauma or surgery, has a markedly deviated nasal septum, or has a history of chronically blocked nasal passages or severe coagulopathy.
 Preparation and Equipment Nasopharyngeal swabs are specifically manufactured to have long, flexible shafts made of plastic or metal and tips made of polyester, rayon, or flocked nylon.
 In addition to nasopharyngeal swabs, you will need personal protective equipment (PPE), including a gown, nonsterile gloves, a protective mask, and a face shield, as described below.
 Make sure that all sample tubes have been labeled and that the appropriate requisition forms have been filled out before starting the procedure.
 Figure 1.
 Figure 1.
 Personal Protective Equipment.
 The clinician is shown wearing the PPE required during collection of a nasopharyngeal swab specimen.
 It is essential that you follow the pertinent respiratory and contact precautions specified by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and by your own institution and that you put on the PPE correctly (Figure 1).
 If possible, you should put on and take off the PPE in the presence of an observer to make sure there are no breaks in technique that may pose a risk of contamination.
 First, put on a protective gown, wash your hands with soap and water (or use an alcohol-based solution), and put on a pair of nonsterile gloves.
 Then put on a protective mask with a rating of N95 or higher, as recommended by the CDC.
 Finally, put on a face shield for face and eye protection.
 Procedure Figure 2.
 Figure 2.
 Patient Wearing a Mask.
 Masks are recommended for all patients suspected of having Covid-19.
 Figure 3.
 Figure 3.
 Obtaining the Nasopharyngeal Swab Specimen.
 Masks are recommended for all patients suspected of having Covid-19 (Figure 2).
 Ask the patient to take off her mask and blow her nose into a tissue to clear excess secretions from the nasal passages.
 Remove the swab from the packaging.
 Tilt the patient’s head back slightly, so that the nasal passages become more accessible.
 Ask the patient to close her eyes to lessen the mild discomfort of the procedure.
 Gently insert the swab along the nasal septum, just above the floor of the nasal passage, to the nasopharynx, until resistance is felt (Figure 3).
 Insert the swab into the nostril, parallel to the palate.
 If you detect resistance to the passage of the swab, back off and try reinserting it at a different angle, closer to the floor of the nasal canal.
 The swab should reach a depth equal to the distance from the nostrils to the outer opening of the ear.
 The CDC recommends leaving the swab in place for several seconds to absorb secretions and then slowly removing the swab while rotating it.
 Your institution may also recommend rotating the swab in place several times before removing it.
 Ask the patient to reapply her mask.
 Handling of the Specimen Figure 4.
 Figure 4.
 Handling the Nasopharyngeal Swab Specimen.
 Shown is the swab in a collection tube placed in a biohazard bag.
 Open the collection tube and insert the swab into the tube.
 Break the swab at the groove and discard what remains of the swab.
 Close the labeled collection tube, wipe the tube with a surface-disinfectant wipe, and insert the tube into an open biohazard bag held by an assistant (Figure 4).
 Depending on institutional practices, you may instead return the sample to its original packaging for transport.
 Follow the CDC directions for direct processing of the swab specimen or placement of the swab in media with or without refrigeration.
 Removing Personal Protective Equipment Remove your PPE as shown in the video and described here or in accordance with the standards at your institution.
 First, remove your gown and gloves.
 Clean your hands with an alcohol-based solution or soap and water.
 Put on a new pair of gloves, and then remove your face shield and either dispose of it or clean and store it in accordance with the guidelines at your institution.
 Remove your gloves, rewash your hands, and put on another pair of gloves; then remove your mask and follow your institutional guidelines for disposal or reuse.
 Finally, remove the last pair of gloves and wash your hands.
 Summary This video demonstrates the collection of specimens from the surface of the respiratory mucosa with nasopharyngeal swabs for the diagnosis of Covid-19 in adults and in children.
 It is important to use approved PPE and the appropriate technique to minimize the possibility of spreading the virus.
 Funding and Disclosures  Disclosure forms provided by the authors are available with the full text of this video at NEJM.org.
 Dr. Marty reports receiving grant support from Gilead and Ansun, consulting fees from Regeneron, and fees for trial design from Allovir, Janssen, Kyorin, and ReViral.
 No other potential conflict of interest relevant to this article was reported.
 This video was published on April 17, 2020, and updated on May 1, 2020, at NEJM.org.Author AffiliationsFrom the Division of Infectious Diseases, Brigham and Women’s Hospital (F.M.M., K.C.
 ), and the Division of Pediatric Oncology, Dana–Farber/Boston Children’s Cancer and Blood Disorders Center (K.A.V.)
 — both in Boston.Address reprint requests to Dr. Marty at the Division of Infectious Diseases, Brigham and Women’s Hospital, 75 Francis St., PBB-A4, Boston, MA 02115, or at [email protected].
 Supplementary Material
       References (4)1.
 MedlinePlus.
 Nasopharyngeal culture.
 March 23, 2020 (https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003747.htm).Google Scholar2.
 World Health Organization.
 Laboratory testing for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in suspected human cases: interim guidance.
 March 2, 2020 (https://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/handle/10665/331329/WHO-COVID-19-laboratory-2020.4-eng.pdf).Google Scholar3.
 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 Interim guidelines for collecting, handling, and testing clinical specimens from persons for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).
 April 14, 2020 (https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/lab/guidelines-clinical-specimens.html).Google Scholar4.
 Gritzfeld JF, Roberts P, Roche L, El Batrawy S, Gordon SB.
 Comparison between nasopharyngeal swab and nasal wash, using culture and PCR, in the detection of potential respiratory pathogens.
 BMC Res Notes 2011;4:122-122.Crossref MedlineGoogle Scholar
        Close References
       Citing Articles (34)
          Close Citing Articles
         
       Letters
       Close LettersPermissionsFigures/MediaFigure 1.
 Personal Protective Equipment.Figure 1.
 Personal Protective Equipment.
 The clinician is shown wearing the PPE required during collection of a nasopharyngeal swab specimen.
 Figure 2.
 Patient Wearing a Mask.Figure 2.
 Patient Wearing a Mask.
 Masks are recommended for all patients suspected of having Covid-19.
 Figure 3.
 Obtaining the Nasopharyngeal Swab Specimen.Figure 3.
 Obtaining the Nasopharyngeal Swab Specimen.
 Figure 4.
 Handling the Nasopharyngeal Swab Specimen.Figure 4.
 Handling the Nasopharyngeal Swab Specimen.
 Shown is the swab in a collection tube placed in a biohazard bag.
 Sign In or Renew                    Back to top       Article Categories   Research   Reviews   Clinical Cases   Perspective   Commentary   Other   Browse all Articles   Current Issue   Issue Index     Resources   Authors &amp; Reviewers   Submit a Manuscript   Subscribers   Institutions   Media   Advertisers   Agents   Permissions          Reprints         NEJM CareerCenter     About Us   About NEJM   Products &amp; Services   Editors &amp; Publishers   Advertising Policies   Contact Us   Accessibility   FAQs   Help   Site Feedback     Subscriptions   Subscribe   Renew   Activate Subscription   Create Account   Manage Account   Pay Bill   Special Offers     Stay Connected   Email Alerts   Create Account   Apps   NEJM CareerCenter   Podcasts   RSS Feed   Remote Access     Follow Us             Facebook                   Twitter                   Instagram              YouTube                   LinkedIn             Copyright © 2020 Massachusetts Medical Society.
 All rights reserved.
 Electronic ISSN 1533-4406.
 Print ISSN 0028-4793.
 The content of this site is intended for health care professionals.
