http://appserver-18749e17-nginx-8235ea9817a94598b0f1f9acfdd86134/content/rand-paul-introduces-five-year-balanced-budget-plan         Log In   Contribute       Get InformedAbout UsIssuesScorecardsGet InvolvedJoinLearnTake ActionResourcesContactFoundationPrivacy Policy Contact FreedomWorks 111 K Street NE Suite 600 Washington, DC 20002    Toll Free      1.888.564.6273    Local      202.783.3870           About UsIssuesTake ActionScorecardsShowsJoinMoreAbout FreedomWorks Board of Directors Staff Employment Internships    Budget &amp; Spending Civil Liberties Education Reform Energy &amp; Environment Entitlement Reform Fundamental Tax Reform Health Care Reform     Judicial Reform Justice Reform Regulatory Action Center Retirement Readiness Sound Money Term Limits Workplace Freedom        A Comparison of Republican and Democrat Platforms to FreedomWorks’ Position on Major Issues    President Trump’s Top 4 Accomplishments in 4 Years    Save Our Country Coalition    Join the Fight for Freedom Government goes to those who show up.
 FreedomWorks makes it easy to hold your elected officials accountable in our fully interactive Action Center.
 See More Actions    Scorecards: House 2019 House Scorecard 2018 House Scorecard 2017 House Scorecard 2016 House Scorecard  Senate 2019 Senate Scorecard 2018 Senate Scorecard 2017 Senate Scorecard 2016 Senate Scorecard    Hold Congress Accountable Want to see how your legislators voted on key FreedomWorks issues?
 You can use our key vote scorecards to see how they measure up.
 Watch and subscribe today!
 When an elected official instead chooses to keep their word, he or she deserves recognition for their consistency.
 With the rise of the Tea Party movement, many lawmakers are talking about cutting government spending.
 Few politicians, however, are willing to truly walk their talk.
 Some of those exceptions include new senators such as Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) and Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT).
 Last week, Sen. Paul along with Senators Lee and DeMint released a plan that would balance the federal budget within five years.
 It would do so by eliminating entire departments and not increasing taxes by one cent.
 By the year 2016, we would have a $19 billion surplus.
 The Cato Institute has posted helpful charts to show the difference between Rand Paul and President Obama’s budget.
 The plan has gained traction among true limited government types.
 Campaign for Liberty has listed some of the main highlights of the balanced budget proposal: "SPENDING: · Brings spending near historical average in very first year    - Reduces spending by nearly $4 trillion relative to the President's budget    - Achieves a $19 billion surplus in FY2016    - Brings all non-military discretionary spending back to FY2008 levels    - Requires the process of entitlement reform, including Social Security and Medicare, with final implementation by FY2016        - Does not change Social Security or Medicare benefits        - Block-grants Medicaid, SCHIP, food stamps, and child nutrition · Provides the President's request for war funding    - Reduces military spending 6 percent in FY2012 · Eliminates four departments:    - Department of Commerce (transfers certain programs)    - Department of Education (preserves Pell grants)    - Department of Housing and Urban Development    - Department of Energy (transfers nuclear research and weapons to Department of Defense) · Repeals Obamacare DEFICITS/DEBT: · Never exceeds $12 trillion in debt held by public · Creates $2.6 trillion less in deficit spending relative to the President's Budget REVENUE: · Extends all the 2001 and 2003 tax relief · Permanently patches the alternative minimum tax  · Repeals Obamacare taxes” It is refreshing to see that Rand Paul’s balanced budget proposal cuts spending in all areas of government including the defense budget.
 Taxpayers lose if certain parts of the budget are isolated from serious scrutiny.
 The military budget has nearly doubled over the last ten years.
 It isn’t reasonable to believe that the Department of Defense (DOD) has spent every dime in the most efficient manner.
 We agree with Defense Secretary Robert Gates that “it is imperative for this department to eliminate wasteful, excessive and unneeded spending.” We applaud Rand Paul for staying true to his word.
 In addition, Sen. Lee has proposed a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution to limit spending to 18 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and require that any effort to raise taxes would need a two-thirds majority vote in both chambers.
 As it currently stands, government spending consumes approximately 25 percent of our GDP.
 These are both modest proposals to rein in federal spending.
 With our current national deficit at $1.7 trillion, it is radical to continue spending at unprecedented levels.
 It’s time to determine who is truly serious about cutting government spending.
 Call your senator and tell him or her to restrain the federal government by supporting Rand Paul and Mike Lee’s balanced budget proposals today.
 Tags  Rand Paul, Mike Lee, BBA, balanced budget amendment, balanced budget   Log in or register to post comments.
 The National Patient Identifier Repeal Act seeks to repeal a dangerous section of the law that could require the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to create a national patient ID system.
 Such a system would present an unprecedented threat to patient security and privacy across the country.
 Sadly, as each day of this coronavirus pandemic wears on, these words seem to grow less and less prophetic.
 Just as we think we’ve reached our capacity for government intrusions into the daily lives of Americans, we’re reminded that we may not have even scraped the surface.
 Senator Paul’s voting record has been 98 percent in alignment with FreedomWorks’ Congressional Scorecard over the ten years he has served as Kentucky’s junior U.S.
 Senator.
 During that time, he has consistently been a source and fearless champion of some of the best, limited-government legislation across a wide spectrum of issues.
 Introduced by Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), the Pandemic Pay-For Act would pay for the $2.4 trillion of COVID-19 spending that Congress has passed by freezing federal spending at FY 2021 levels through FY 2024.
 2859/S.
 1620 BY Luke Hogg FreedomWorks is proud to announce that our bill of the month for July 2020 is the Processing Revival and Intrastate Meat Exemption (PRIME) Act, H.R.
 2859 and S. 1620, introduced in the House by Reps. Thomas Massie (R-Ky.) and Chellie Pingree (D-Maine) and in the Senate by Sens.
 Rand Paul (R-Ky.) and Angus King (I-Maine).
 This bipartisan legislation would loosen restrictions so that meat processed in a state-licensed facility can be sold locally -- without regulation from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) -- in an effort to help address issues with our meat supply chain that have become glaringly obvious during the COVID-19 pandemic.
 Throughout the coronavirus pandemic, bill after bill has been rushed through Congress, without ample input from members and with too many items in them to be good.
 This is one of the provisions that spawned the Edward Snowden leaks back in 2013 and drew the American people’s attention to the scope of abuses perpetrated by the intelligence community.
 Though some reforms have been made, many in Congress still stand by the program despite the revelations.
 0  05/11/2020                  Default Sidebar Signup Form     Want more freedom?
 Become a member today!
 Your Email *    Zip *           Leave this field blank              In Action  President Trump’s Top 4 Accomplishments in 4 YearsLEARN MOREA Comparison of Republican and Democrat Platforms to FreedomWorks’ Position on Major IssuesSave Our Country CoalitionFreedomWorks Foundation, American Legislative Exchange Council, Tea Party Patriots and Committee to Unleash Prosperity in partnership with a coalition of conservative organizations and prominent individuals, launched the Save Our Country Task Force.
 LEARN MOREWomen Win 2020Learn more about FreedomWorks' new Women Win 2020 campaign!
 LEARN MORE2020 Platform &amp; Activist PledgeFreedomWorks is proud to roll out its 2020 policy platform for the Republican Party.
 LEARN MOREStop the Socialist Green New DealHelp stop the Democrats’ socialist Green New Deal by signing the petition.
