Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 David Mikkelson       Published 30 October 2007                          				smg.ads.load( 'post-featured-1' ); 			    Claim  A new drug called Jenkem, made by fermenting raw sewage, is a "popular drug in American schools."
 Rating         False About this rating        Do you rely on Snopes reporting?
 Become a member today.
 smg.ads.load( 'rating-1' ); 			    Origin  Jenkem (or jekem) is the common name given to an inhalant made by fermenting raw sewage (i.e., fecal matter and urine), reportedly used as a cheap means of producing a dissociative or hallucinogenic high (particularly by children in third world countries).
 A Collier County, Florida, police informational bulletin about Jenkem was widely circulated via e-mail in October 2007: Example: [Collected via e-mail, October 2007] Information Bulletin New Drug – JENKEM On 09/19/07 Cpl.
 Jenkem originated in Africa and other third world countries by fermenting raw sewage to create a gas which is inhaled to achieve a high.
 Jenkem is now a popular drug in American Schools.
 Jenkem is a homemade substance which consists of fecal matter and urine.
 The fecal matter and urine are placed in a bottle or jar and covered most commonly with a balloon.
 The container is then placed in a sunny area for several hours or days until fermented.
 The contents of the container will separate and release a gas, which is captured in the balloon.
 Inhaling the gas is said to have a euphoric high similar to ingesting cocaine but with strong hallucinations of times past.
 Once ingested the onset of the high takes approximately 10 seconds with the most severe hallucinations happening in approximately 20 minutes.
 Several articles indicate that the subject immediately passes out after ingesting the gas then regains a magical/hallucinogenic state within seconds of regaining consciousness.
 The high has been described by subjects as a feeling of “being out of it” and talking to dead people.
 The feeling of being “out of it” may last for several hours or days.
 All subjects who used the Jenkem disliked the taste of sewage in their mouth and the fact that the taste continued for several days.
 Slang terms: Winnie, Shit, Runners, Fruit from Crack Pipe, Leroy Jenkems, Might, Butthash, and Waste.
 But evidence that jenkem use is a significant phenomenon in the U.S. (or indeed, anywhere in the world) or that the substance can even product the effects described is scant.
 The parent brought Jenkem to the attention of the school’s administration, which passed it on to the Sheriff’s Office.
 “Other than the one memo I received from that parent, I haven’t heard the name of it mentioned,” Palmetto Ridge Principal Roy Terry said.
 “I’m sure that something like this can be done, but I have not heard of anybody doing it nor anyone at our school doing it at all.” A deputy spoke to some students on the Palmetto Ridge campus and a few had heard of Jenkem.
 Still, there have been no reported cases of Jenkem use in Collier County.
 Internet pundits were quick to jump on the[sheriff’s] intelligence briefing, noting that the photos and descriptions of the high jenkem produced came from “Pickwick,” a contributor to the Web site Totse.com, who later admitted his “use” of jenkem was faked using flour, water, beer and Nutella.
 “I never inhaled any poop gas and got high off it,” he wrote on Sept. 24.
 “I have deleted the pictures, hopefully no weirdo saved them to his computer.
 I just don’t want people to ever recognize me as the kid who huffed poop gas.” Descriptions of jenkem starting appearing in the press in the mid-1990s, most of them merely referencing it in passing, and nearly all of them specifically mentioning its use as being unique to street children in Lusaka, the capital city of Zambia.
 The earliest reference to jenkem we’ve found so far comes from a 1995 Inter Press Service (IPS) wire report: People used to wonder why a gang of scruffy pre-teen boys hung around the sewer ponds of the Garden Township here [in Lusaka].
 The stench is so overpowering that people literally speed through that stretch of the slum area wondering how those who live close by ever got used to it.
 The answer has finally dawned on Zambians, and it has left them pondering the desperation of its street children.
 The boys at the garden township have discovered “jenkem,” a new way of getting high.
 The process is simple.
 Human excreta is scooped up from the edges of the sewer ponds in old cans and containers which are covered with a polyethylene bag and left to stew or ferment for a week.
 The contents are then inhaled and the result is a lungful of biogases and a powerful “hit.” Jenkem “huffers” bury their entire face in the ghastly mess, gasping it all in.
 “Ba mudala, niyikali kuchila dobo,” Mukela Nyambe, a fifth grade drop out, told IPS with teary eyes and a running nose.
 “Old man, this is more potent than cannabis.” The Drug Enforcement Commission (DEC) says there is nothing they can do about it.
 It may be a terrible health hazard but is completely legal, as are glue or petrol sniffing, previously the most common way street kids numbed their senses.
 Jenkem use also turned up in a brief 1999 BBC News article on the subject: At the Lusaka sewage ponds, two teenage boys plunge their hands into the dark brown sludge, gathering up fistfuls and stuffing it into small plastic bottles.
 They tap the bottles on the ground, taking care to leave enough room for methane to form at the top.
 A sour smell rises in the hot sun, but the boys seem oblivious to the stench and the foul nature of their task.
 They are manufacturing “Jenkem”, a disgusting, noxious mixture made from fermented sewage.
 It is cheap, potent and very popular among the thousands of street-children in Lusaka.
 When they cannot afford glue or are too scared to steal petrol, these youngsters turn to Jenkem as a way of getting high.
 “It lasts about an hour”, says one user, 16-year-old Luke Mpande, who prefers Jenkem to other substances.
 “With glue, I just hear voices in my head.
 But with Jenkem, I see visions.
 I see my mother who is dead and I forget about the problems in my life.” Sniffing sewage is a symptom of the desperate plight of Zambia’s street-children.
 There are thought to be some 75,000 in the country as a whole — a number that has doubled in the past eight years.
 Nobody knows exactly where the idea for making Jenkem came from, but it has been used by street-children in Lusaka for at least two years.
 Nason Banda of the Drug Enforcement Agency is not proud when he says that it is unique to Zambia.
 He shudders when he sees the boys at the sewage ponds, scavenging for faecal matter to make Jenkem.
 “It’s unimaginable” he says.
 “It hits right at the heart to see a human being coming down a level, to be able to dip his hand into a sewage pond, picking out the material and not caring about anything but the feeling of getting high.” Those few mid-1990s articles are the only substantive information about jenkem use we’ve turned up so far, and even those are difficult to verify.
 We’ve haven’t found anything to substantiate the claim that youngsters in the U.S. are indulging in jenkem to the extent that it is now a “popular drug in American schools,” other than some vague statements from drug enforcement officials who assert the phenomenon is real because they’ve heard rumors about it: Coffee County Sheriff’s Department Narcotics Investigator Neal Bradley said jenkem is already in use on the west coast.
 “Whatever they’re using on the west coast is also used in Coffee County,” he said.
 “We’ve heard that this was something students were doing and it sounds crazy, but don’t think they’re not doing it here.” Bradley said because of the diversity of Coffee County with people moving in, “drugs that people think aren’t in our county really are.” Bradley said no arrests have been made in Coffee County yet.
 “I’ve heard some things and I’m sure it’s out there, we just haven’t made any arrests yet on it.”      Snopes.com   Since 1994     Help Supercharge Snopes For 2020  				We have big plans.
 We need your help.
 Become a member!
 Published 30 October 2007   By   David Mikkelson     Filed Under   drug warnings   jenkem   social media panics       Sources         Brand, Carole.
 “New Drug in Use by High School Students.”     The Enterprise [Alabama] Ledger.
 9 November 2007.
 Fuller, Alexandra.
 “We Just Want Enough.”     National Geographic.
 September 1995.
 Matheson, Ishbel.
 “Africa Children High on Sewage.”     BBC News.
 30 July 1999.
 Mills, Ryan.
 “Sheriff’s Office Warns of New Human Waste Drug, Others Pooh-Pooh Its Existence.”     Naples Daily News.
 8 November 2007.
 Pietras, Jamie.
 “Smoke This Shit.”     Salon.
 9 November 2007.
 Steiner, Emil.
 “Jenkem Madness?”     Washington Post.
 6 November 2007.
 FOXNews.com.
 “‘Drug’ Made from Human Waste Causing Stink on Web, in Law Enforcement.”     6 November 2007.
 Inter Press Service.
 “Zambia-Narcotics: ‘Huffing and Puffing’ to New High.”     26 August 1995.                  				smg.ads.load( 'post-footer-1' ); 			    Editors' Picks         Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 Did DHS Secretly Watermark Ballots in an Election Fraud Sting Against Dems?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Discussing election mechanics is easier when you actually know how elections work.
 Can State Legislatures Override the Choice of Presidential Electors?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   The electoral college is a unique system for indirectly electing the president of the United States.
 Has Starbucks Sold a ‘Christmas Blend’ Since 1984?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Since at least 2015, the popular coffee chain has faced accusations of being "anti-Christmas."
 Snopes Fact-Checks the 2020 US Election, Live    															5 November 2020													  							Collections						   Lies don't wait — and neither does Snopes.
 Did a Fox 2 Detroit Report Expose Voter Fraud in the 2020 Election?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   An image graphic detailing an assortment of potential election crimes was shared on social media the day after the 2020 presidential election.
 Was the 2020 U.S. Presidential Election Winner Announced Yet?
 7 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   For days, the world waited to see who American voters want to serve as the 46th president of the United States — Donald Trump or Joe Biden.
 Were Trump Ballots Marked with Sharpies Disqualified in Arizona?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Arizona was one of several states apparently won by Joe Biden in 2020 that were targeted by election-related conspiracy theories.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			     Snopes.com needs your help.Become a member today.
 Learn How          				smg.ads.load( 'side-3' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 See the whole collection.
 Support Us       					You rely on Snopes, and we rely on you.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
