Skip to main content Skip to FDA Search Skip to in this section menu Skip to footer links          An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know       The .gov means it’s official.Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil.
 Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site.
 The site is secure.
 The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
 U.S. Food and Drug Administration        Search     Menu       Search FDA   Submit search          Featured  Contact FDA FDA Guidance Documents Recalls, Market Withdrawals and Safety Alerts Press Announcements Warning Letters Advisory Committees En Español      Products  Food Drugs Medical Devices Radiation-Emitting Products Vaccines, Blood, and Biologics Animal and Veterinary Cosmetics Tobacco Products    Topics  About FDA Combination Products Regulatory Information Safety Emergency Preparedness International Programs News and Events Training and Continuing Education Inspections and Compliance Science and Research    Information For  Consumers Patients Industry Health Professionals Federal, State and Local Officials          In this section:      Consumer Information (MQSA)                    Consumer Information (MQSA)          Search for a Certified Facility Consumer Information (MQSA): CMS Reimbursement Issues Frequently Asked Questions About MQSA MQSA: General Interest Articles MQSA: Other Resources               Home   Radiation-Emitting Products   Mammography Quality Standards Act and Program   Consumer Information (MQSA)   Search for a Certified Facility        Consumer Information (MQSA)           Search for a Certified Facility    Share   Tweet   Linkedin   Email   Print          This list of FDA Certified Mammography Facilities is updated weekly.
 If you click on Search for MQSA Certified Mammography Facilities in Your Area, you can access a listing by zip code of all mammography facilities in that zip code certified by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or Certifying State as meeting baseline quality standards for equipment, personnel and practices under the Mammography Quality Standards Act of 1992 (MQSA) and subsequent Mammography Quality Standards Reauthorization Act (MQSRA) amendments.
 You can download the mammography facilities zip file which contains locations for mammography facilities.
 This file is replaced weekly, and has the following file layout:  Field Name Field Length Facility Name 75 Address 1 50 Address 2 50 Address 3 50 City 50 State 2 Zip Code 15 Phone 50 Fax 50  Facilities must contact their accreditation body to update or correct their address or telephone numbers.
 This is not the responsibility of FDA.
 The list is updated periodically based on information received from the three FDA-approved accreditation bodies: the American College of Radiology (ACR), and the States of Arkansas and Texas.
 Information received by FDA or Certifying State from accreditation bodies does not specify if the facility is mobile or stationary.
 In many instances, but not all, the accreditation body notes "Mobile" following the name of the facility.
 The certification status of facilities may change, so FDA suggests that you check the facility's current status and look for the MQSA certificate.
 Please keep in mind that providing a list of MQSA certified facilities does not mean that FDA, or any other organization, recommends one certified facility over another and that Veterans Health Administration facilities are not included.
