Publisher Gary Schwitzer and other contributors may post new articles periodically.
 But all of the 6,000+ articles we have published contain lessons to help you improve your critical thinking about health care interventions.
 And those will be still be alive on the site for a couple of years.
 Story Reviews News Release Review Blog Posts    6151 Posts 2616 Story Reviews 606 News Release Reviews 2929 Blog Posts   Home Story Reviews News Release Reviews Blog Podcasts About Us Editorial Team What We Review and How Review Criteria How Is the Star Score Determined?
 Our Comments Policy Accolades for HealthNewsReview.org Talks, Workshops &amp; Presentations Toolkit Tips for Analyzing Studies &amp; Health Care Claims Just for Journalists: Writing Tips Stories of Patient Harm from Misleading Media Pre-publication News Release Review Health News Watchdog podcasts News Sites &amp; Blogs We Like List of Industry-Independent Experts Links to Other Resources Contact    Menu               March 1, 2012 Read Original StoryOmega-3 oils shown as good for brain health in study involving older people   Reviewed By Rating  Categories  health food claims, Washington Post Tags  dementia, Omega-3  Omega-3 oils shown as good for brain health in study involving older people   Our Review SummaryAt least the Post, unlike CNN, managed to slip in a few caveats about the research in its 270-word snippet of a story.
 And it didn’t make any questionable claims about the health effects of omega-3s.
 However, the story lacked a clear explanation of the potential benefits and offered no independent perspective.
 Both would have been helpful here.
 Why This MattersWe recognize that this feature, Quick Study, is meant to be a short summary of research for the busy reader.
 And we appreciate the standard disclaimer the feature carries at the end, which says: “conclusive evidence about a treatment’s effectiveness is rarely found in a single study.
 Anyone considering changing or beginning treatment of any kind should consult with a physician.” Nevertheless, even tiny information nuggets like this one need to provide key details about the research and context.
 If there’s not enough room for those things, editors should think hard about whether the story is worth running at all.
 Does this help readers – or just add more background noise in the daily drumbeat of health care news?
 Criteria  Does the story adequately discuss the costs of the intervention?
 Not Applicable The cost of fish is not in question.
 Does the story adequately quantify the benefits of the treatment/test/product/procedure?
 Not Satisfactory The story tells us individuals with lower omega-3 levels “scored lower on cognitive tests measuring such things as memory, problem solving, abstract thinking and multi-tasking.” But how much lower were the scores and did they indicate a meaningful difference in how these people functioned?
 The story doesn’t say.
 Does the story adequately explain/quantify the harms of the intervention?
 Not Applicable The harms of eating fish are not in question – although the story could have mentioned concerns with mercury in some fish at some levels of consumption.
 Does the story seem to grasp the quality of the evidence?
 Satisfactory The story mentions some limitations: “Most participants were white.
 Testing and measurements were done once, providing no data for comparison over time or to determine any link to dementia.” We’ll call this satisfactory, but the story didn’t get to the heart of the matter the way the competing HealthDay coverage did.
 The key issue is that this kind of study can’t show whether it was the omega-3s, or some factor or combination of factors associated with higher omega-3 intake, that was responsible for the benefits.
 Does the story commit disease-mongering?
 Satisfactory No disease mongering.
 Does the story use independent sources and identify conflicts of interest?
 Not Satisfactory No independent source was quoted.
 An extra two dozen words may have done the trick.
 Does the story compare the new approach with existing alternatives?
 Not Satisfactory There was no discussion of alternatives (such as exercise, mental stimulation) to omega-3s for preserving cognitive function.
 Does the story establish the availability of the treatment/test/product/procedure?
 Not Applicable The availability of fish and fish oil is not in question.
 Does the story establish the true novelty of the approach?
 Not Satisfactory Previous research has suggested possible benefits of fish and other components of a healthy diet on cognitive function during aging.
 This story didn’t mention any of that research.
 Does the story appear to rely solely or largely on a news release?
 Not Applicable We can’t tell to what extent this story may have relied on a press release, so we’ll call it not applicable.
 Total Score: 2 of 6 Satisfactory  You might also like   Benefits of walking for older adults: NPR story missed a cautionary detail Guardian hypes possible blood test for depression as 'breakthrough' More backstory needed on study of 'brain training' benefits for dementia  Comments Please note, comments are no longer published through this website.
 All previously made comments are still archived and available for viewing through select posts.
 × Our Comments Policy We welcome comments, which users can leave at the end of any of our systematic story reviews or at the end of any of our blog posts.
 But before leaving a comment, please review these notes about our policy.
 You are responsible for any comments you leave on this site.
 This site is primarily a forum for discussion about the quality (or lack thereof) in journalism or other media messages (advertising, marketing, public relations, medical journals, etc.)
 It is not intended to be a forum for definitive discussions about medicine or science.
 We will delete comments that include personal attacks, unfounded allegations, unverified claims, product pitches, profanity or any from anyone who does not list a full name and a functioning email address.
 We will also end any thread of repetitive comments.
 We don”t give medical advice so we won”t respond to questions asking for it.
 We don”t have sufficient staffing to contact each commenter who left such a message.
 If you have a question about why your comment was edited or removed, you can email us at feedback@healthnewsreview.org.
 There has been a recent burst of attention to troubles with many comments left on science and science news/communication websites.
 Read “Online science comments:  trolls, trash and treasure.” The authors of the Retraction Watch comments policy urge commenters: “Shed light, not just heat.
 Facts, challenges, disagreements, corrections — those are all fine.
 Attacking the person, instead of the idea or the interpretation, is neither acceptable nor helpful.” We”re also concerned about anonymous comments.
 We ask that all commenters leave their full name and provide an actual email address in case we feel we need to contact them.
 We may delete any comment left by someone who does not leave their name and a legitimate email address.
 And, as noted, product pitches of any sort – pushing treatments, tests, products, procedures, physicians, medical centers, books, websites – are likely to be deleted.
 We don”t accept advertising on this site and are not going to give it away free.
 The ability to leave comments expires after a certain period of time.
 So you may find that you’re unable to leave a comment on an article that is more than a few months old.
 You might also like   Benefits of walking for older adults: NPR story missed a cautionary detail Guardian hypes possible blood test for depression as 'breakthrough' More backstory needed on study of 'brain training' benefits for dementia   	Story Reviews  Systematic, Criteria-Driven News Organizations’ Overall Grades  @HealthNewsRevu Retweet on TwitterHealthNewsReview.org RetweetedPaul John Scott@pauljohnscott·@garyschwitzer has been a trailblazer in protecting us from bamboozled health reporting.
 Thrilled to get his endorsement here for #Malcharist, which fictionalizes problems he first helped us see.
 https://twitter.com/garyschwitzer/status/1310190671555375109Reply on Twitter 1310210060212150273Retweet on Twitter 13102100602121502732Like on Twitter 13102100602121502733Twitter 1310210060212150273HealthNewsReview.org@HealthNewsRevu·How #COVID19 drug/vaccine decisions might be based on results in dozens of people, not the thousands we read about in the daily tsunami of news about the race in competing trials.
 https://www.healthnewsreview.org/2020/09/how-covid-19-drug-vaccine-decisions-might-be-based-on-little-evidence/ Reply on Twitter 1309174175370747909Retweet on Twitter 13091741753707479095Like on Twitter 13091741753707479095Twitter 1309174175370747909Retweet on TwitterHealthNewsReview.org RetweetedJAMA Internal Medicine@JAMAInternalMed·Major revisions + reversals of reporting about the efficacy of remdesivir and HCQ have compromised the public's trust in scientists and physicians.
