"/about/careers/index.html" 						return URL.substring(0, i);  					return URL;							// has no filename, e.g.
 Surgeon General is the Nation’s Doctor, providing Americans with the best scientific information available on how to improve their health and reduce the risk of illness and injury.
 The Surgeon General oversees the U.S. Public Health Service (USPHS) Commissioned Corps, an elite group of over 6,000 uniformed officers who are public health professionals.
 The USPHS mission is to protect, promote, and advance the health of our nation.
 I would like info on...  Who is the Surgeon General Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Hypertension Control E-Cigarette Prevention Tobacco Reports &amp; Publications                          Surgeon General’s Call to Action to Control Hypertension   Highlighting the national public health priority of blood pressure control.
 Call to Action on Hypertension Control   Read the Surgeon General's strategies for frontline health workers to address high blood pressure.
 The Nation’s Doctor to America: #COVIDStopsWithMe   To slow the spread of coronavirus, each of us must continue to take personal responsibility to protect ourselves and our loved ones.
 About OSG    About OSG Learn about the mission, history and leadership team of the Office of the Surgeon General.
 OSG Priorities Tile    Priorities Read about the urgent public health issues that are being tackled by the Surgeon General.
 OSG Reports &amp; Publications tile    Reports &amp; Publications Explore landmark scientific publications from the OSG that are stimulating conversation and action nationwide on important public health topics.
 OSG - USPHS Commissioned Corps    USPHS Commissioned Corps Learn about the elite team of highly qualified public health professionals who are on call 24 hours a day in essential leadership and clinical service roles throughout the federal government.
 Email        OSG Headquarters Office of the Surgeon General 			U.S. Department of Health &amp; Human Services 			200 Independence Avenue, S.W.
 It defaults to 1 (100%) 		 *				y - float values to test against, as a decimal 		 *     value of how much of the element's height 		 *     must be visible for the method to return 		 *     true.
 It defaults to 1 (100%) 		 * 		 * Description: This function determines if an element is within 		 *    the viewport based on the parameters and returns 		 *    a boolean value.
 Value dependent on ThemeKey module.
