Articles  Global research U.S. research Policy analysis Guttmacher Policy Review Op-eds &amp; external blogs    Fact Sheets  Global U.S. U.S. State Laws and Policies    Data &amp; Visualizations  Data center Infographics    Peer-Reviewed Journals  International Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health     Topics    Global  Abortion Contraception HIV &amp; STIs Pregnancy Teens    U.S.
 Abortion Contraception HIV &amp; STIs Pregnancy Teens     Regions    Our Work By Geography  Global Asia Latin America &amp; the Caribbean Sub-Saharan Africa United States Explore our partnerships     About    Who We Are  About us Staff Board Partnerships Job opportunities History Contact    Media  Media office News releases    Support Our Work  Make a gift today Monthly Giving Circle Guttmacher Guardians Donate stock or securites Guttmacher Legacy Circle Financials Annual Report    Awards and Scholarships  Darroch Award Richards Scholarship         Search form                Good reproductive health policy starts with credible research       Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Email                    Good reproductive health policy starts with credible research        Donate Now  Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Email        Our work     Highlights  COVID-19 impact Adding It Up Guttmacher-Lancet Commission U.S. policy resources State policy resources State legislation tracker        Reports  Global U.S.
 Articles  Global research U.S. research Policy analysis Guttmacher Policy Review Op-eds &amp; external blogs    Fact Sheets  Global U.S. U.S. State Laws and Policies    Data &amp; Visualizations  Data center Infographics    Peer-Reviewed Journals  International Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health        Topics    Global  Abortion Contraception HIV &amp; STIs Pregnancy Teens    U.S.
 Abortion Contraception HIV &amp; STIs Pregnancy Teens       Regions    Our Work By Geography  Global Asia Latin America &amp; the Caribbean Sub-Saharan Africa United States Explore our partnerships       About    Who We Are  About us Staff Board Partnerships Job opportunities History Contact    Media  Media office News releases    Support Our Work  Make a gift today Monthly Giving Circle Guttmacher Guardians Donate stock or securites Guttmacher Legacy Circle Financials Annual Report    Awards and Scholarships  Darroch Award Richards Scholarship          Search form                    November 2016 Report Publicly Funded Family Planning Clinics in 2015: Patterns and Trends in Service Delivery Practices and Protocols  Mia R. Zolna and Jennifer J.
 Frost    TopicUnited StatesContraception: Publicly Funded Family Planning              Reproductive rights are under attack.
 Will you help us fight back with facts?
 Donate Now            Key Points  Publicly funded family planning clinics provide critical contraceptive, sexual and reproductive health and other preventive health services to poor and low-income women.
 Between 2010 and 2015, the proportion of these clinics offering a wide range of contraceptive methods on-site, especially long-acting reversible contraceptive (LARC) methods, increased significantly.
 More than half (59%) of clinics met the Healthy People 2020 objective of offering the full range of contraceptive methods.
 Along with increased method provision, between 2010 and 2015 clinics were more likely to offer same-day appointments, to have shorter wait times for an appointment, and to have protocols in place that facilitate initiation and continuation of oral contraceptives and LARC methods for women who choose them, including offering “quick-start” and delayed pelvic exam protocols for new oral contraceptive users.
 Clinics were also more likely to offer noncontraceptive services in 2015, such as primary care services, diabetes screening and mental health screening.
 Clinics that receive at least some funding through the federal Title X program were more likely than clinics that do not receive such funds to offer a wider range of contraceptive methods on-site and to have protocols that facilitate initiation and continuation of oral contraceptives and LARC methods, including dispensing oral contraceptive supplies at the clinic and same-day insertion of IUDs and implants.
 Between 2010 and 2015, the proportion of clinics reporting contracts with private health plans and with Medicaid at least doubled, indicating a rapid ramping-up of clinics’ ability to function successfully in the new health care marketplace.
 Background and Significance Publicly funded family planning clinics—including public health department and Planned Parenthood clinics, federally qualified health centers (FQHCs), and other community and hospital outpatient sites—provide millions of women with critically important contraceptive and related reproductive health services each year.
 In 2014, some 5.3 million American women received contraceptive services from a publicly funded clinic.1 In fact, more than one-quarter (27%) of all U.S. women who receive contraceptive services—and 44% of all poor women—receive that care from a publicly funded family planning clinic.2 In addition to contraceptive services, these clinics provide women with a wide range of preventive health services, testing and treatment for STIs, and referrals for other needed care.3 In many cases, publicly funded family planning clinics provide the only regular health care women receive.2 Moreover, care from publicly funded clinics allows women to plan the timing of wanted pregnancies and to avoid unintended pregnancies—they helped women to avoid some 1.3 million unintended pregnancies in 2014 alone.
 Given recent changes in health care financing and delivery, including those related to the implementation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), it is even more important to closely monitor trends in the care being offered by different types of providers.
 In 2015, a similar study was designed and conducted to provide updated information on many of the same measures.
 For some measures, we also examine whether there are differences across clinics according to whether the clinic is located in a state that had implemented either a Medicaid expansion under the ACA or had a Medicaid family planning expansion in effect during 2015; such expansions allow states to increase the number of women who receive Medicaid-funded care based on their income level.
 The publicly funded family planning clinic network comprises more than 8,000 sites located throughout the country.6 This loose network of providers includes all sites that offer contraceptive services to the general public and use public funding, including Medicaid, to provide free or reduced-fee services to at least some clients.
 Some are linked to larger county, state or national organizations, while others are independent community providers.
 In 2010, state or county public health departments administered 29% of all clinics and served 27% of all clients receiving care from this network of providers.6 Planned Parenthood affiliates administered 10% of clinics, but served more than one-third of the clients (36%).
 The remaining clinics were administered by FQHCs (38%), serving 16% of clients; or by other types of agencies (16%), serving 13% of clients.
 Hospital outpatient clinics account for 8% of the network and make up the largest single clinic type within the “other clinics” category.
 Groups too small to report separately include independent women’s clinics, other community clinics not part of the FQHC network (such as FQHC look-alikes*), Indian Health Service clinics and other unaffiliated clinics.
 The federal Title X family planning program sets the standards that unify about half of all publicly funded family planning clinics.
 For over four decades, Title X has served as the only federal program devoted to providing family planning services to low-income and underserved women; the program funded contraceptive services at some 4,100 clinics in 2014.18 Title X–funded clinics serve more than two-thirds of all clients receiving care from the network of publicly funded family planning providers, and more than half of all Title X clinics are run by public health departments.6 Title X provides flexible funding that can be used for direct patient care, as well as infrastructure, outreach or educational services.
 Critically, Title X also provides clinical guidelines that set the standard of care for all clinics that receive at least some financial support through the program; in 2010, 70% of all family planning clinic clients were served in sites that receive some Title X funding.6 Title X–funded clinics adhere to ethical standards about patient confidentiality and the provision of voluntary services, and they follow guidelines about the provision of a wide range of contraceptive methods and related preventive health services for all clients.
 These findings are important for program planners and policymakers seeking to ensure that all women and couples, regardless of their income or insurance status, are able to receive the contraceptive and preventive care they need to avoid unintended pregnancies and plan for wanted births.
 These data are especially critical given the challenges and changes brought about by transitions in health care financing and delivery.
 Moreover, they can be used to inform the ongoing debate about the benefits of public funding for contraceptive services by providing accurate, up-to-date information about the full range of preventive and diagnostic services offered by the clinic network.
 Methodology Sample Between February and November 2015, we surveyed a nationally representative sample of 1,839 clinics providing publicly funded contraceptive services.
 The sample was drawn from the 8,497 eligible publicly funded family planning clinics included in the Guttmacher Institute’s list of all publicly funding family planning clinics.
 Using directories of Title X–supported clinics, Planned Parenthood affiliates, federally qualified health centers (FQHCs) and Indian Health Service units, as well as personal communications with Title X grantees, agency administrators and others, this list is regularly updated to confirm clinic names, addresses, public funding status and provision of contraceptive services.
 Sampled clinics were stratified by type (health department, Planned Parenthood, FQHC and other) and whether they received any Title X funding.
 Clinics were randomly selected within each of the eight resulting categories.
 We randomly sampled 37% of Planned Parenthood clinics, 18% of FQHCs, 19% of health departments, and 25% of hospitals and other facilities.
 Fieldwork protocols Surveys were pretested with clinic administrators and were then mailed to clinic family planning directors in February and March 2015.
 The eight-page questionnaire asked for basic information about the clinic, including client caseload and staffed hours, and about the range and type of contraceptive services provided.
 Questions addressed current reproductive health services provided (or offered through referral), clinic practices and protocols regarding services offered, referral relationships with other providers, and contracts with public and private health insurance plans.
 A reminder mailing was sent to clinic administrators in April.
 To improve the response rate, follow-up phone calls and e-mails were made to nonresponding facilities between April and November 2015.
 Over 7,600 contacts were made during this period, via phone, e-mail and fax.
 To improve the response rate, clinics that had not yet responded to the survey within five months after the initial mailing were offered a $25 incentive for completed surveys, and letters announcing the incentive were mailed directly to the contact person identified as most appropriate during nonresponse follow-up; 420 clinics responded to the incentive offer.
 Response Ultimately, 867 clinics responded to the survey, 15 clinics refused and 871 never responded, even after multiple follow-up attempts.
 (The original sample included 86 clinics that were found to be ineligible, primarily because they had closed or had stopped providing family planning services at the site due to administrative changes or loss of funding.
 These clinics were not replaced in the sample.)
 In addition, some clinics in the original sample were found to be “satellite” sites, i.e., sites that were open less than two days per week and where family planning services were provided by staff from another full-service site in the same agency.
 In most of these cases, we replaced the satellite site in the sample with another site in the same agency that was not a satellite.
 The overall response rate among eligible clinics was 50%, and the rate among Title X clinics was 65%.
 Response by provider type (regardless of Title X status) was 70% among Planned Parenthoods, 63% among health departments, 37% among FQHCs and 41% among others.
 All cases were weighted for sampling ratios and nonresponse to reflect the universe of family planning providers at the time the sample was drawn.
