//  	  Menu Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to footerSafely screen, detect, and remove head lice and nits.Search this websiteHome Helpful Info  Head Lice Removal FAQs NPA’s No Nit Policy The Deceptive Dozen Chemical Concerns Do It 4 the Kids  Just for Kids   Lice Removal Products   Resources  Louse and Disease   In the Press  All Articles Press Releases Human Louse and Disease Classic Articles   About Us Contact Us Search Home Helpful Info  Head Lice Removal FAQs NPA’s No Nit Policy The Deceptive Dozen Chemical Concerns Do It 4 the Kids  Just for Kids   Lice Removal Products   Resources  Louse and Disease   In the Press  All Articles Press Releases Human Louse and Disease Classic Articles   About Us Contact Us Search National Pediculosis Association Urges Centers for Disease Control to Act Promptly on Reviewing and Updating its Information on Treating Children with Head Lice.
 National Pediculosis Association Petition Leads to FDA Website Updates on Treating Head Lice.
 NPA asks CDC to improve guidance on head lice.
 Parents looking for immediate help with head lice, here’s what to do and what not to do.
 Every Month is National Head Lice Prevention Month!
 Welcome to HeadLice.Org!
 Head lice resources and information for parents, health care professionals, and organizations brought to you by the National Pediculosis Association,® Inc.
 Learn to screen, detect and remove head lice and nits safely and effectively.
 See the NPA Mission Statement.
 Human Head Lice and Their Ability to Transmit Disease: Bridging the Scientific History   Comb First!
 Why Comb?
 Combing Benefits “Because it’s not about lice, it’s about kids.”  Combing is a safer, more effective head lice solution!
 “Diagnosis of louse infestation using a louse comb is four times more efficient than direct visual examination and twice as fast.” Thanks to the LiceMeister® comb (you can order one here), parents can screen their children regularly at home!
 What To Do About Head LiceParents naturally put their children first, constantly seeking information to keep their families nurtured and safe.
 But when it comes to head lice, they’re often confronted with conflicting guidance and misinformation—leading them to make potentially risky and ineffective treatment decisions.
 The NPA advises parents to comb first, to discontinue the use of any treatment at the earliest sign of failure, and to avoid using other chemicals.
 Manual removal of head lice with a comb is the best option whenever possible.
 Every Month is National Head Lice Prevention Month!
 Parents and Health Professionals Peruse our downloadable resources, our how-to steps for head lice removal, our news and research section, and our frequently asked questions.
 Visit LiceMeister.com for information on the LiceMeister® comb.
 Focus on Safety Learn about the Deceptive Dozen and why combing with an effective head lice comb, rather than turning to pesticides, is the preferred and most effective solution for head lice removal.
 Just For Kids In our “Just For Kids” section of HeadLice.Org you will find information and activities designed BY kids FOR kids, a child-friendly place for them to learn more about head lice and have fun too!
 No Nit Policy Learn about NPA’s No-Nit Policy and how to minimize head lice as a public health problem and to keep children in school lice and nit free.
 The LiceMeister® comb was featured as a lindane alternative at a global meeting of the Stockholm Convention!
 National Pollution Prevention Roundtable Awards NPA 2001 Most Valuable Pollution Prevention Award.
 FooterNational Pediculosis Association,® Inc. National Pediculosis Association Mission Statement 
 The NPA is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization dedicated since 1983 to protecting children, their families and their environment from the misuse and abuse of prescription and over-the-counter pesticide treatments for lice and scabies.
 Pediculosis (the medical term for an infestation of lice) provides a public health opportunity to teach important lessons about communicable disease preparedness, responsible personal behaviors, environmental health, and the importance of learning about pharmaceutical remedies before using them on our children and ourselves.
 NPA is committed to setting the highest possible public health standards for children as they relate to the communicability and treatment of head lice.
 NPA has been the leader in raising pediculosis as a public health priority and a pioneer in public health education and research on pediculosis.
 The National Pediculosis Association,® Inc. (NPA)1005 Boylston Street / STE 343Newton, MA 02461617-905-0176 / 
 npa@headlice.org Connect with us!
 InstagramTwitter About LiceMeister® Comb The NPA developed the LiceMeister® comb in 1997 to accomplish its mission by providing a higher standard for lice combing tools and a safe, cost-effective treatment alternative to pesticides.
 All proceeds from sales of the LiceMeister comb allow the NPA to be self-sustaining and independent from product manufacturers while accomplishing its mission of protecting children from the misuse and abuse of pesticide treatments for lice.
 Since 1997, the LiceMeister comb has been the preferred choice of many health professionals and the gold standard in combing tools for lice and nits (lice eggs).
 It is an FDA cleared medical device (510K) for the purposes of routine screening, early detection and removal of lice and nits, and it is the only comb to carry the name of the National Pediculosis Association.
 Please see our Privacy Policy, our Terms of Use and Disclaimer.Visit the Lindane Education and Research Network | Lindane.org and malathion.org.
 ©National Pediculosis Association.
 2020 marks 37 years of service!
