HomeU.S.
 PoliticsMedia &amp; NewsSocial TrendsReligionInternet &amp; TechScienceHispanicsGlobalMethods Blog About Follow My Account DONATE      Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World   About Follow  Donate                                    HomeU.S.
 But the party affiliation of Cubans has undergone a shift over the past decade, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of survey data.
 Less than half (47%) of Cuban registered voters nationwide now say they identify with or lean toward the Republican Party—down from the 64% who said the same about the GOP a decade ago, according to 2013 survey data.
 Meanwhile, the share of Cubans who identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party has doubled from 22% to 44% over the same time period, according to the survey of Hispanics.
 The Cuban population in the U.S. is centered in Florida, home to seven-in-ten of the nation’s 2 million Cuban-origin Hispanics.
 In the 1960s, the state’s Cuban immigrant population boomed as many left the island after Fidel Castro’s rise to power.
 The concentration of Cuban voters subsequently helped push the overall Hispanic vote toward the Republican Party in the Sunshine State.
 In 2004, for example, Republican presidential candidate George W. Bush won 78% of the Cuban vote in Florida, compared with 56% of the state’s Hispanics overall.
 The shift is partly explained by the coming of age of U.S.-born Cubans, who have somewhat different political affiliations than their elders.
 Today, 44% of Cubans in the U.S. are native-born.
 Some 48% of Cubans ages 18 to 49 were born in the U.S., compared with 11% of Cubans who are 50 years and older.
 The shift is also partly explained by the different waves of Cuban immigrants who have arrived in the U.S.—more than half of Cuban immigrants arrived after 1990.
 Between 2000 and 2010, the annual average growth of the Cuban immigrant population was 17,300, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data.
 Looking at all Cubans, including those not registered to vote, only a third say they identify with or lean toward the Republican Party, according to the 2013 survey of Hispanics.
 On the other side of the aisle, some 48% of Cubans today say they identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party.
 The impact of younger Cubans is reflected in those figures.
 Over half (56%) of Cubans ages 18 to 49 identified with or leaned toward the Democratic Party compared with 39% of those 50 years and older.
 Conversely, older Cubans tend to identify with or lean toward the Republican Party more than younger Cubans, by 44% to 23%.
 Even so, the share of older Cubans who are Republican has declined over time.
 In 2002, among all Cubans, some 68% who were 50 and older said they identified with or leaned toward the Republican Party.
 Among Latinos, those of Cuban origin have had some of the highest voter turnout rates.
 In 2012, 67% of Cuban Americans voted nationally, compared with 48% of Latinos overall.
 In the 2012 presidential election, the Cuban vote in Florida was split—49% supported Democrat Barack Obama while 47% supported Republican Mitt Romney, according to the national exit poll.
 Among all Latinos nationwide, Obama won 71% of the vote, compared with just 27% for Romney.
 Topics Political Party AffiliationHispanic/Latino VoteU.S.
 Political PartiesRace and Ethnicity    Share this link:            Jens Manuel Krogstad  is a senior writer/editor focusing on Hispanics, immigration and demographics at Pew Research Center.
 POSTS BIO TWITTER EMAIL           SIGN UP FOR OUR WEEKLY NEWSLETTER    MAKE A FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTION TO SUPPORT OUR WORK DONATE      Related                   Most Cuban American voters identify as Republican in 2020                      As Cuban American demographics change, so do views of Cuba                      Democratic edge in Hispanic voter registration grows in Florida                      Unlike other Latinos, about half of Cuban voters in Florida backed Trump                      Men and women in the U.S. continue to differ in voter turnout rate, party identification      Popular on pew research In past elections, U.S. trailed most developed countries in voter turnout The Trump-Biden presidential contest An examination of the 2016 electorate, based on validated voters What the 2020 electorate looks like by party, race and ethnicity, age, education and religion Election night marks the end of one phase of campaign 2020 – and the start of another              1615 L St. NW, Suite 800Washington, DC 20036USA  (+1) 202-419-4300 | Main  (+1) 202-857-8562 | Fax  (+1) 202-419-4372 | Media Inquiries        Research Areas   U.S.
 Politics &amp; Policy Journalism &amp; Media Internet &amp; Technology Science &amp; Society Religion &amp; Public Life Hispanic Trends Global Attitudes &amp; Trends Social &amp; Demographic Trends Methods      Follow Us    Email Newsletters  Facebook  Twitter  Tumblr  YouTube  RSS      About Pew Research Center Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan fact tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends shaping the world.
 It conducts public opinion polling, demographic research, media content analysis and other empirical social science research.
 Pew Research Center does not take policy positions.
 It is a subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts.
 Copyright 2020 Pew Research Center About Terms &amp; Conditions Privacy Policy Reprints, Permissions &amp; Use Policy Feedback Careers       				We need to confirm your email address 			   To complete the subscription process, please click the link in the email we just sent you.
 By downloading the American Trends Panel survey data made available on this web site (\u201cData\u201d) you are agreeing to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
 If you do not agree to be bound by these terms, do not download or use the Data.\n\n\tI.\tLicense.\n\tA.\t The Center hereby grants User a non-exclusive, revocable, limited, non-sublicensable, non-transferable, worldwide, royalty-free license to use the Data solely for (1) research, scholarly or academic purposes, or (2) User\u2019s own personal, non-commercial use.
 The foregoing license is personal to User, and you may not share (or otherwise permit access to) the Data to any other individual or entity, including those within your business or organization.
 Further, you may not reproduce, sell, rent, lease, loan, distribute or sublicense, or otherwise transfer any Data, in whole or in part, to any other party, or use the Data to create any derivative work or product for resale, lease or license.
 Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may incorporate limited portions of the Data in scholarly, research or academic publications or for the purposes of news reporting provided that you:\n\t1.\t acknowledge the source of the Data with express reference to the Center in accordance with the following citation:\n\n\t\u201cPew Research Center\u2019s American Trends Panel\u201d\n\n\t2.\tdo not use the Data in any manner that implies, suggests, or could otherwise be perceived as attributing a particular policy or lobbying objective or opinion to the Center, and\n\t3.\tinclude the following disclaimer: \u201cThe opinions expressed herein, including any implications for policy, are those of the author and not of Pew Research Center.\u201d\n\tB.\tUser acknowledges that, as between the parties, the Center is the sole and exclusive owner of all right, title and interest in the Data.
 Except for the limited license granted herein, this Agreement does not give User any right, title or interest in the Data.\n\n\tII.\tDisclaimers and Limitations of Liability.
 THE DATA IS PROVIDED \u201cAS IS\u201d WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARISING BY LAW OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF COMPLETENESS, NON-INFRINGEMENT, ACCURACY, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 THE CENTER EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS, AND SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR, ANY ERRORS, OMISSIONS, INACCURACIES, OR INTERRUPTIONS IN THE DATA.
 USER ASSUMES ALL RISK ASSOCIATED WITH USE OF THE DATA AND AGREES THAT IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CENTER OR ITS AFFILIATES BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, DAMAGES FOR THE INABILITY TO USE EQUIPMENT OR ACCESS DATA, LOSS OF BUSINESS, LOSS OF REVENUE OR PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS, LOSS OF INFORMATION OR DATA, OR OTHER FINANCIAL LOSS, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF, OR INABILITY TO USE, THE DATA BASED ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, BREACH OF CONTRACT, BREACH OF WARRANTY, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF USER HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\n\n\tIII.\tPrivacy, Confidentiality and Security.\n\tA.\tThe Center respects the privacy of individuals.
 The Center has taken measures to ensure that the Data is devoid of information that could be used to identify individuals (including, but not limited to, names, telephone numbers and email addresses) who participated in or who were the subject of any research surveys or studies used to collect the Data (\u201cPersonally Identifying Information\u201d).
 However, in the event that you discover any such Personally Identifying Information in the Data, you shall immediately notify the Center and refrain from using any such Personally Identifying Information.
 User further agrees not to (and will not allow other to) attempt to ascertain the identity of or derive information about individual survey respondents nor link the individual survey records contained in the Data with other data sets for the purpose of identifying individuals.\n\tB.\tUser shall maintain the Data as confidential, and will not use it, in any way nor disclose it to any third party, except as expressly permitted under this Agreement.
 User agrees, at its sole expense, to take reasonable precautions to protect the confidentiality of Data, at least as stringent as User takes to protect User\u2019s own confidential information, but in no case less than reasonable care.
 The foregoing confidentiality obligations shall not apply to any information which: (a) is known to User prior to receipt from the Center other than as a result of User\u2019s breach of any legal obligation; (b) becomes known (independently of disclosure by the Center) to User directly or indirectly from a source having the legal right to disclose such information; (c) is or becomes publicly known, except through a breach of this Agreement by User; or (d) is required to be disclosed by User to comply with applicable laws or governmental regulations, provided that User gives the Center, to the extent practicable, reasonable prior written notice of such disclosure sufficient to permit the Center to contest such disclosure and User takes reasonable and lawful actions to avoid and\/or minimize the extent of such disclosure.
 The parties agree that any breach of the confidentiality obligations of this Agreement by User will result in irreparable damage to the Center for which it will have no adequate remedy at law.
 Therefore, it is agreed that the Center shall be entitled to equitable relief, including an injunction enjoining any such breach by any court of competent jurisdiction.
 Such injunction shall be without prejudice to any other right or remedy to which the Center may be entitled, including but not limited to any damages resulting from User\u2019s breach of the confidentiality obligations under this Agreement.
 Any failure or delay in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall not operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder.\n\tC.\tUser will immediately notify the Center and cooperate with investigations, and provide any information reasonably requested by the Center if User knows of or suspects any breach of security or potential vulnerability of the Data and will promptly remedy such breach.\n\n\tIV.\tIndemnification.
 User shall indemnify and hold harmless the Center, its affiliates and related organizations, and each of their respective officers, directors, employees, legal representatives, agents, successors and assigns, from and against any damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys\u2019 and professionals\u2019 fees and court costs arising out of any third-party claims based on (a) User\u2019s access or use of the Data; (b) any changes made by User to the Data in accordance with this Agreement; or (c) any breach by User of any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.\n\n\tV.\tTermination.
 This license will terminate (1) automatically without notice from the Center if you fail to comply with the provisions of this Agreement or (2) immediately upon written notice (by e-mail or otherwise) from the Center.
 Upon termination of this Agreement, you agree to destroy all copies of any Data, in whole or in part and in any and all media, in your custody and control.\n\n\tVI.\tGoverning law.
 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the District of Columbia.
 You further agree to submit to the jurisdiction and venue of the courts of the District of Columbia for any dispute relating to this Agreement.
