Poison - definition of poison by The Free Dictionary https://www.thefreedictionary.com/poisonPrinter Friendly      Dictionary, Encyclopedia and Thesaurus - The Free Dictionary 12,483,563,368 visitors served   Search / Page tools      TheFreeDictionary Google  ?
 My bookmarks ?
 poi·son  (poi′zən)n.1.
 A substance that causes injury, illness, or death, especially by chemical means.2.
 Something destructive or fatal.3.
 Chemistry A substance that inhibits another substance or a reaction: a catalyst poison.tr.v.
 poi·soned, poi·son·ing, poi·sons 1.
 To kill or harm with poison.2.
 To put poison on or into: poisoning arrows; poisoned the drink.3.
 a.
 To pollute: Noxious fumes poison the air.
 See Synonyms at contaminate.b.
 To have a harmful influence on; corrupt: Jealousy poisoned their friendship.4.
 Chemistry &amp; Physics To inhibit (a substance or reaction).adj.
 Poisonous.
 [Middle English, from Old French, from Latin pōtiō, pōtiōn-, drink; see pō(i)- in Indo-European roots.
 ]poi′son·er n.American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, Fifth Edition.
 Copyright © 2016 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company.
 Published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company.
 All rights reserved.poison (ˈpɔɪzən) n1.
 (Medicine) any substance that can impair function, cause structural damage, or otherwise injure the body.
 2. something that destroys, corrupts, etc: the poison of fascism.
 3.
 (Chemistry) a substance that retards a chemical reaction or destroys or inhibits the activity of a catalyst4.
 (General Physics) a substance that absorbs neutrons in a nuclear reactor and thus slows down the reaction.
 It may be added deliberately or formed during fission5.
 what's your poison?
 informal what would you like to drink?vb (tr) 6.
 (Medicine) to give poison to (a person or animal) esp with intent to kill7.
 to add poison to8.
 to taint or infect with or as if with poison9.
 (foll by against) to turn (a person's mind) against: he poisoned her mind against me.
 10.
 (Chemistry) to retard or stop (a chemical or nuclear reaction) by the action of a poison11.
 (Chemistry) to inhibit or destroy (the activity of a catalyst) by the action of a poison[C13: from Old French puison potion, from Latin pōtiō a drink, esp a poisonous one, from pōtāre to drink] ˈpoisoner nCollins English Dictionary – Complete and Unabridged, 12th Edition 2014 © HarperCollins Publishers 1991, 1994, 1998, 2000, 2003, 2006, 2007, 2009, 2011, 2014poi•son (ˈpɔɪ zən) n. 1. a substance that has an inherent tendency to destroy life or impair health.
 2. something harmful or pernicious, as to happiness or well-being.
 v.t.
 3. to administer poison to (a person or animal).
 4. to kill or injure with or as if with poison.
 5. to put poison into or upon; saturate with poison.
 6. to ruin, vitiate, or corrupt: Hatred had poisoned their minds.
 7.
 Chem.
 to destroy or diminish the activity of (a catalyst or enzyme).
 adj.
 8. poisonous: a poison shrub.
 [1200–50; Middle English puisun Thank you for using The Free Dictionary!
 To stay free, we rely on revenue from ads.
 If you'd like to experience the site without ads, please consider supporting us by purchasing our premium ad-free subscription .
