Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 David Mikkelson                       				smg.ads.load( 'post-featured-1' ); 			      Claim:   Eos brand lip balm can grow black or green mold under some conditions.
 They grow mold!!
 The tissue shows mold from the lid, and you can see mold on the balm.
 #eos        Origins:   Growing consumer demand for products labeled all-natural or organic isn’t restricted to just the food we eat; a  number of cosmetic and personal grooming products are marketed in the same manner.
 One item that falls into the latter category is a mass-market lip balm (eos) that is widely available, affordable, and attractively packed, making it a popular choice among consumers interested in preservative-free products.
 But many ingredients with intimidating, chemically-sounding names serve a relatively important function for personal care products, such as inhibiting growth of mold and other undesirable (but organic) organisms.
 While preservative-free food is often opened and wholly consumed shortly after purchase, grooming products can be used (and contaminated by bacteria on skin) for months at a time.
 smg.ads.load( 'post-body-2' ); 			   In January 2015, one such complaint about mold in eos lip balm involving black mold circulated widely online and created the impression similar issues with the product were recent or common.
 In response to the rumor’s circulation, many eos lip balm users checked their own products and discovered they too possessed what looked to be contaminated product.
 Complaints of mold in eos lip balm did not first appear in January 2015.
 A number of intermittent reports involving black or green mold either on the lid of the balm or the balm itself can be found on the Internet dating back at least as far as 2013.
 Eos users have reported finding rings of mold spots in the cap of the balm, or occasionally a spot of mold growing in the product itself.
 One Amazon reviewer complained:   I bought this at a local pharmacy about three months ago.
 After using it for several weeks I noticed a funny odor and black stuff around the edges.
 It had molded.
 Evidently the manufacturer is receiving complaints, and there is a buzz on the internet about this.
 Buyers please be aware.
 One factor in the deluge of eos lip balm mold complaints was what appeared to be an increased focus on the issue.
 Users who spotted warnings about mold in lip balm more carefully scrutinized their own products, and those affected subsequently reported their own issues with moldy balm.
 The product in question is marketed as primarily natural and organic, likely lacking preservatives commonly used to inhibit mold growth in similar lip treatments.
 On Facebook, eos replied to one user complaint and explained how to prevent mold from growing on lip balm:   Thank you for your email.
 We’re so sorry to see that!
 We do very occasionally hear of this.
 Mold will grow on many surfaces, especially warm and moist places and on products with natural ingredients.
 The best way to prevent this is to try to not get the lip balm itself wet when applying it (apply to dry lips) and/or let any moisture that’s on the lip balm dry before you put the top back on.
 Eos advised consumers to send an e-mail with a picture of the affected product to the company for a replacement.
 So while eos lip balm product can become moldy in some instances, the issue is neither new or widespread.
 The company explained keeping the balm dry could prevent mold growth, and if they receive a complaint about moldy product they will replace it.
 Last updated:   15 January 2016        Snopes.com   Since 1994     Help Supercharge Snopes For 2020  				We have big plans.
 We need your help.
 Become a member!
 By   David Mikkelson     Filed Under   ASP Article   Toxin Du Jour               				smg.ads.load( 'post-footer-1' ); 			    Editors' Picks         Trump’s ‘Major Fraud’ Speech, Fact-Checked    															4 November 2020													  							News						   "This is an embarrassment to our country," Trump said, before falsely claiming he had already won the election.
 Live Updates: Snopes Coverage of 2020 U.S. Election Day    															3 November 2020													  							News						   If the campaign season is any indication, misinformation is likely to fill social media feeds Tuesday.
 Get the facts here.
 Did Armed Trump Supporters Harass a Biden Bus in Texas?
 2 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   The Alamo City Trump Train Facebook Group was used to organize the convoy's movements.
 Is America Really ‘Rounding the Turn’ on COVID-19?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   We fact-checked the claims of those who sought to downplay the seriousness of the pandemic in the weeks prior to the 2020 presidential election.
 No, Trump Did Not Call for Biden’s Assassination    															29 October 2020													  							Fact Check						   Critics of the president latched onto his use of the phrase "Joe's shot," in a speech in October 2020.
 What did he actually say?
 14 August 2020													  							Fact Check						   Harris long ago distanced herself from the relationship.
 Did DHS Secretly Watermark Ballots in an Election Fraud Sting Against Dems?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Discussing election mechanics is easier when you actually know how elections work.
 Does Your Food Contain Beaver Anal Secretions?
 5 February 2013													  							Fact Check						   Alarmist warnings about beaver-derived castoreum are overblown: its use is now exceedingly rare, and the typical consumer is unlikely to ever encounter castoreum in food.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 Was a Pornhub Logo Accidentally Displayed on CNN?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   This video has racked up more than 7 million views.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			     Snopes.com needs your help.Become a member today.
 Learn How          				smg.ads.load( 'side-3' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 See the whole collection.
 Support Us       					You rely on Snopes, and we rely on you.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
