
 
Our bill explicitly bans the federal government from creating a registry and 
creates a new penalty for misusing records to create 
a registry

a felony 
punishable by 15 years in prison.  
 
 

 
As under current law, temporary transfers do not require background checks, 
so, for example, you can loan your hunting rifle to your buddy without any 
new restrictions or requirements. 
 
 

 
As under cur
rent law, transfers between family, friends, and neighbors do 
not require background checks.   You can give or sell a gun to your brother, 
your neighbor, your coworker without a background check.  You can post a 
gun for sale on the cork bulletin board at y
our church or your job without a 
background check. 
 
 

 
Our bill also fixes problems in current law that unfairly limit the Second 
Amendment rights of law abiding gun owners by: 
 
o
 
Allowing interstate handgun sales from licensed dealers.  Outdated 
current law only allows interstate sales of rifles and shotguns.  This will 
bring more sales into the background check system. 
 
o
 
Allowing active military to buy firearms in their home states
 
and the state 
in which they are stationed.  Current law restricts them to purchasing 
only from their duty station. 
 
o
 
Allowing dealer
-
to
-
dealer sales at gun shows taking place in a state in 
which they are not a resident.  Currently these sales are only perm
itted 
for dealers from the same state in which the gun show is being held.    
 
o
 
Protecting sellers from lawsuits if the buyer is cleared through the 
expanded background checks system and the weapon is subsequently 
used in a crime.  This is the same treatmen
t gun dealers receive now.
 
o
 
Authorizing the use of a state concealed carry permit that has been issued 
within the last five years in lieu of a background check when purchasing 
a firearm from a dealer because background checks are required to 
receive conceal
 
carry permits. 
 
 
2.
 
Getting all the names of prohibited purchasers into the background 
check system
 
 

 
There are serious problems currently with states not putting records into the 
NICS system.  One tragic example:  records on the Virginia Tech shooter 
 that wo
uld have put him on the prohibited purchasers list had not been 
entered into the system.
 
 

 
Our bill encourages states to provide all their available records to NICS by 
eliminating unnecessary responsibilities for states and directing future grant 
money towa
rds creating systems to send records to NICS. The bill will also 
reduce federal funds to states that do not comply.  
 
 

 
Provides additional Second Amendment protections to our veterans.
 
 

 
Requires that if a background check at a gun show does not result in a
 
definitive response from NICS within 48 hours, the sale may proceed. After 
four years, when the NICS improvements are completed, the background 
check would be required to clear in 24 hours. Current law is three business 
days.
 
 
 
3.
 
 
Establishes a National Com
mission on Mass Violence 
 
 

 
Creates a commission of non
-
elected experts in their fields who will study 
the causes of mass violence in the United States, looking at all aspects of 
the problem, including mental health, guns, school safety and portrayals of 
vi
olence in the media. This broad approach is absolutely necessary to truly 
address our culture of violence.  
 
 
WHAT THE BILL WILL NOT DO
 
 

Amendment rights to keep and bear arms.
 
 

 
 
The bill will not ban any type of firearm.
 
 
The bill will not ban or restrict the use of any kind of bullet or any size clip or 
magazine.
 
 
The bill will not create a national registry; in fact, it explicitly proh
ibits it. 
 
 
  
 
 
