Need to activate      BMA Member Log In    Log in via OpenAthens    Log in via your institution             Edition:     UK   US South Asia International             Our company             Toggle navigation     The BMJ logo  Site map     Search       Search form SearchSearch           Advanced search Search responses Search blogs          Toggle top menu       covid-19 ResearchAt a glance Research papers Research methods and reporting Minerva Research news  EducationAt a glance Clinical reviews Practice Minerva Endgames State of the art What your patient is thinking Rapid recommendations Student  News &amp; ViewsAt a glance News Features Editorials Analysis Observations Opinion Head to head Editor's choice Letters Obituaries Views and reviews Careers Rapid responses  CampaignsAt a glance Better evidence Climate change Divestment from fossil fuels Patient and public partnership Too much medicine Wellbeing The BMJ Collections  JobsDoctor Jobs UK Hospital Jobs UK GP Jobs UK International Jobs North America Jobs      Archive For authors Hosted                Education How big a problem is... How big a problem is non-alcoholic fatty liver disease?
 Practice Uncertainties Page How big a problem is non-alcoholic fatty liver disease?
 Furthermore, clinical uncertainties persist from diagnosis and risk stratification through to treatment and long term follow-up.Diagnosis and risk stratification—Much of the population is at risk of NAFLD through being overweight or insulin resistant, or both, but how best to identify patients with NAFLD remains unclear, especially in patients with NASH, who are at greatest risk of liver related complications.
 Many patients remain undiagnosed and so it is not known what the true prevalences of steatosis and steatohepatitis are and how many people will actually develop liver related morbidity.
 These uncertainties have made it difficult to establish strategies for service delivery in routine clinical practice.Prognosis—Although most patients with NAFLD have steatosis, only a minority progress to more advanced disease, characterised by inflammation and subsequent fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma.
 Studies indicate that about 5.4% of patients with NASH develop complications of end stage liver disease during long term follow-up.3 4 5 Such progression is probably influenced by genetic and environmental factors, only some of which have been identified.4 6 Recognised independent risk factors for progression are age &gt;45 years, presence of diabetes (or severity of insulin resistance), obesity (body mass index &gt;30), and hypertension.4 The patients who do progress often present late in the natural course of the disease and have substantial liver related morbidity.Treatment—Although current treatment is aimed at weight loss and amelioration of the metabolic syndrome through lifestyle interventions such as diet and exercise, insufficient evidence exists to formulate authoritative and balanced clinical guidelines for specific therapies.4What is the evidence of the uncertainty?The need for better evidence is apparent from the start of a patient’s journey with NAFLD when we consider how best to identify affected individuals in the population, how to stratify individual risk of disease progression so that care may be tailored to individual need, and how to establish strategies for service delivery in routine clinical practice (box 1).
 We searched PubMed, Medline, Embase, the Cochrane Library, the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT), and clinicaltrials.gov databases for relevant literature and information on clinical trials (and other registered studies).
 No internationally accepted evidence based consensus guidelines have been published on this subject.Box 1 Main uncertainties in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)The prevalence of NAFLD and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in an unselected general populationThe risk of liver related morbidity in a general community population of individuals with NAFLD or NASHThe optimum method of identifying subjects with NASH in the communityClinically relevant, economic, and patient acceptable non-invasive techniques for differentiating steatosis from NASH to identify those at greatest risk of liver related complicationsStrategies to facilitate sustainable modification of lifestyle to achieve weight loss and control the metabolic syndrome Effective drug treatments directed at the liver to control steatohepatitis and prevent fibrosis progressionHow to diagnose NAFLD and NASHNAFLD is often asymptomatic and commonly first discovered as an incidental biochemical abnormality (often mildly raised alanine aminotransferase levels) identified during routine blood tests.7 The characteristic biochemical changes (a relatively greater rise in alanine aminotransferase than in aspartate aminotransferase) tend to reverse, and alanine aminotransferase levels fall as hepatic fibrosis progresses.
 This means that steatohepatitis with advanced disease may be present even in those with relatively normal alanine aminotransferase levels.
 Furthermore, hepatic fat content tends to diminish as cirrhosis develops, and so NASH is probably underdiagnosed in the setting of advanced liver disease, where it is thought to be the underlying cause of 30-75% of cases where no specific cause is readily identified (“cryptogenic cirrhosis”).4 Routine ultrasound imaging of the liver provides a qualitative assessment of hepatic fat content; sensitivity is limited, however, particularly when 10-fold increased risk of liver related death (2.8% v 0.2%) and a doubling of cardiovascular risk (15% v 7.5%) over a mean follow-up of 13.7 years.5Invasive tests are generally not appropriate or practical outside specialist hepatology practice.
 There is a clear need to develop non-invasive screening tests, ideally based on clinical history and readily available anthropometric and biochemical indices, to differentiate the patients at low risk of progression from those with more aggressive disease.
 The identification of appropriate biomarkers is an area of ongoing study, and the relative merits of currently published clinical scores and elastography techniques that identify patients with advanced fibrosis remain controversial.7 9 10 These clinical scores and elastography techniques indicate, however, only the current degree of fibrosis and do not necessarily predict subsequent disease progression.How best to advise and treat patients with NAFLD and NASHAs recently highlighted in a position statement on NAFLD from the European Association for the Study of the Liver, evidence based clinical guidelines for this condition are badly needed but insufficient evidence is currently available to formulate authoritative and balanced guidance.4 No drugs are currently licensed specifically for treating NASH, although evidence from randomised control trials may support the use of specific insulin sensitising agents in selected patient groups.4 The mainstay of current treatment comprises lifestyle interventions to promote weight loss, with trial evidence showing that weight reduction of ≥7% maintained over 48 weeks is associated with significant reduction in histological severity of NASH.11Is ongoing research likely to provide relevant evidence?Box 2 summarises the main clinically relevant research themes.
 From a public health perspective, the magnitude of disease burden in the general population needs to be determined so that consequent consumption of healthcare resources attributable to NAFLD alone or as a cofactor in disease progression may be predicted.A search of ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov) identifies more than 250 ongoing studies examining diagnostic modalities, physiology, and treatment of NAFLD.
 Several international collaborative research programmes are under way.
 The FLIP: Fatty Liver Inhibition of Progression consortium (www.flip-fp7.eu/), sponsored by the European Union, has established large prospective and retrospective patient cohorts to identify genetic factors and pathophysiological mechanisms underlying NASH and also to enable development of innovative diagnostic methods for large scale screening and prognostic evaluation.
 Similarly, the United States’ National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases has sponsored the Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis Clinical Research Network to coordinate clinical research on aetiology, contributing factors, natural course, and treatment (www.jhucct.com/nash/Default.asp).Box 2 Recommendations for further researchPopulation studies	Development of appropriate methods for accurate determination of the prevalence of NAFLD and NASH in the community Large community based studies to accurately determine the prevalence of NAFLD and NASH and the rate of disease progression Service developmentStudies to develop robust diagnostic strategies adapted for large scale screening Studies to develop strategies for effective triage of patients with NAFLD or NASH so that care can be tailored to the individual’s risk of progression Biomarker discovery and clinical score development to help in discrimination of steatosis from NASH and/or predict risk of fibrosis progression Basic science and therapeutics developmentResearch into genetic and environmental factors that influence risk and rate of disease progression as targets for treatment Research into optimum lifestyle interventions to effect sustainable reduction in riskStudies of new therapeutic strategies to ameliorate NASH related liver damage and slow fibrosisWhat should we do in the light of the uncertainty?
 Beyond prognostication, identification of patients with NAFLD will change patient management by (a) providing a greater impetus for modification of diet and lifestyle; (b) guiding drug selection in patients with insulin resistance or diabetes (trial evidence indicates that glitazone oral antidiabetic agents may ameliorate steatohepatitis, although this has not translated into reduced fibrosis4 12); and (c) allowing specific monitoring strategies to be instituted if cirrhosis is present.
 As a marker of the metabolic syndrome, identification of NAFLD should also prompt aggressive modification of cardiovascular risk factors.Until further evidence becomes available, management will be dictated partly by the clinical situation.
 There is insufficient evidence to support routine screening of the general population outside epidemiological studies.4 As NASH is strongly associated with insulin resistance, it may be appropriate to assess patients with this condition for advanced liver disease, using biochemical liver function tests and ultrasound imaging of the liver.4 No imaging modality is ideal, and serum aminotransferase levels are not highly sensitive for NAFLD.
 However, until better methods are available, such pragmatic case identification is probably warranted, on the basis of evidence that patients with insulin resistance and increased aminotransferase levels are much more likely to have advanced liver fibrosis.4 13Where abnormalities are identified—either after targeted investigation or as an incidental finding—investigations need to exclude alternative causes (including viral, autoimmune, and metabolic).7 14 Although liver biopsy currently remains the optimum investigation for assessing degree of inflammation and extent of liver fibrosis as markers for risk of liver related morbidity, invasive tests are not generally appropriate or practical outside specialist hepatology practice.
 A first line, non-invasive assessment based on clinical history, readily available anthropometric and biochemical indices, and radiological investigation may be used to help exclude alternative causes and differentiate the patients with mild disease at low risk of progression from those with more aggressive disease or advanced fibrosis that require additional assessment, targeted intervention, and/or specialist referral.7 9 10 As an example, the figure⇓ shows the algorithm that we use in our region for investigating and assessing disease severity in patients with NAFLD.
 Where this cannot be effectively implemented or if clinical suspicion remains high, onward referral is advised.Example algorithm for clinical assessment of patients at risk of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), accepting the many uncertainties that currently exist in this field.
 The NAFLD Fibrosis Score and FIB4 Score are examples of validated non-proprietary clinical scores for estimating severity of liver fibrosis.
 Transient elastography (Fibroscan) uses ultrasound to measure the propagation of an induced elastic shear wave through liver tissue, measuring degree of liver stiffness as a surrogate for severity of hepatic fibrosis.
 The ELF (Enhanced Liver Fibrosis) test and Fibrotest are examples of proprietary techniques that have also been proposed for the non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis based on clinical biochemical indices and/or panels of specific serum markersDownload figure Open in new tab Download powerpoint The ultimate goal should be a multidisciplinary care pathway that delivers case identification and risk stratification through robust screening of those at greatest risk in the primary care setting (and in cardiology and diabetology clinics), and staged interventions first in the community and then through secondary and tertiary care as clinical need dictates.NotesCite this as: BMJ 2011;343:d3897FootnotesThis is one of a series of occasional articles that highlight areas of practice where management lacks convincing supporting evidence.
 The series adviser is David Tovey, editor in chief, the Cochrane Library.
 All approved the final version as submitted.
 QMA is the guarantor.Competing interests: All authors have completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf (available on request from the corresponding author) and declare: CPD and QMA are members of the European Union FP7 funded “Fatty Liver Inhibition of Progression (FLIP)” consortium; no support from any organisation for the submitted work; no financial relationships with any organisations that might have an interest in the submitted work in the previous three years; no other relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.Provenance and peer review: Commissioned; externally peer reviewedReferences↵De Alwis NM, Day CP.
 Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: the mist gradually clears.
 J Hepatol2008;48(suppl 1):S104-12.OpenUrlPubMed↵Sanyal AJ, American Gastroenterological Association.
 AGA technical review on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
 Gastroenterology2002;123:1705-25.OpenUrlCrossRefPubMed↵Argo CK, Caldwell SH.
 Epidemiology and natural history of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.
 Clin Liver Dis2009;13:511-31.OpenUrlCrossRefPubMedWeb of Science↵Ratziu V, Bellentani S, Cortez-Pinto H, Day C, Marchesini G. A position statement on NAFLD/NASH based on the EASL 2009 special conference.
 J Hepatol2010;53:372-84.OpenUrlCrossRefPubMed↵Ekstedt M, Franzen LE, Mathiesen UL, Thorelius L, Holmqvist M, Bodemar G, et al.
 Long-term follow-up of patients with NAFLD and elevated liver enzymes.
 Hepatology2006;44:865-73.OpenUrlCrossRefPubMedWeb of Science↵Anstee QM, Daly A, Day CP.
 Genetics of alcoholic and non-alcoholic fatty liver D7 disease.
 Seminars in Liver Disease2011;31:128-46.OpenUrlCrossRefPubMedWeb of Science↵Cobbold JF, Anstee QM, Thomas HC.
 Investigating mildly abnormal serum aminotransferase values.
 BMJ2010;341:c4039.OpenUrlFREE Full Text↵Saadeh S, Younossi ZM, Remer EM, Gramlich T, Ong JP, Hurley M, et al.
 The utility of radiological imaging in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
 Gastroenterology2002;123:745-50.OpenUrlCrossRefPubMedWeb of Science↵McPherson S, Stewart SF, Henderson E, Burt AD, Day CP.
 Simple non-invasive fibrosis scoring systems can reliably exclude advanced fibrosis in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
 Gut2010;59:1265-9.OpenUrlAbstract/FREE Full Text↵Angulo P. Noninvasive assessment of fibrosis and steatosis in NASH and ASH.
 Gastroenterol Clin Biol2009;33:940-8.OpenUrlCrossRefPubMedWeb of Science↵Promrat K, Kleiner DE, Niemeier HM, Jackvony E, Kearns M, Wands JR, et al.
 Randomized controlled trial testing the effects of weight loss on nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.
 Hepatology2010;51:121-9.OpenUrlPubMedWeb of Science↵Musso G, Gambino R, Cassader M, Pagano G. A meta-analysis of randomized trials for the treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
 Hepatology2010;52:79-104.OpenUrlPubMedWeb of Science↵De Ledinghen V, Ratziu V, Causse X, Le Bail B, Capron D, Renou C, et al.
 Diagnostic and predictive factors of significant liver fibrosis and minimal lesions in patients with persistent unexplained elevated transaminases.
 A prospective multicenter study.
 J Hepatol2006;45:592-9.OpenUrlCrossRefPubMedWeb of Science↵Green RM, Flamm S. AGA technical review on the evaluation of liver chemistry tests.
 Gastroenterology2002;123:1367-84.OpenUrlCrossRefPubMedWeb of ScienceView Abstract                    Tweet Widget Facebook Like      See other articles in issue 7816    Article tools  PDF3 responses         Respond to this article      Print      Alerts &amp; updatesArticle alertsPlease note: your email address is provided to the journal, which may use this information for marketing purposes.
 Log in or register:      Username *    Password *          Register for alerts  If you have registered for alerts, you should use your registered email address as your username           Citation toolsDownload this article to citation manager      Quentin M Anstee, Stuart McPherson, Christopher P Day  Anstee Quentin M, McPherson Stuart, Day Christopher P.  How big a problem is non-alcoholic fatty liver disease?
 BMJ 2011; 343 :d3897       BibTeX (win &amp; mac)Download EndNote (tagged)Download EndNote 8 (xml)Download RefWorks Tagged (win &amp; mac)Download RIS (win only)Download MedlarsDownload        Help     If you are unable to import citations, please contact  technical support for your product directly (links go to external sites):  EndNote ProCite Reference  Manager RefWorks Zotero               Request permissions               Author citationArticles by Quentin M Anstee Articles by Stuart McPherson Articles by Christopher P Day Add article to BMJ Portfolio      Email to a friendForward this page     Thank you for your interest in spreading the word about The BMJ.NOTE: We only request your email address so that the person you are recommending the page to knows that you wanted them to see it, and that it is not junk mail.
 We do not capture any email address.
 Username *    Your Email *    Send To *    You are going to email the following  How big a problem is non-alcoholic fatty liver disease?
 Your Personal Message               CAPTCHA        This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.
