Enter search terms and tap the Search button.
 Both articles and products will be searched.
 Shipping!)
 $20.00 					    Improving Memory: Understanding Age-Related Memory Loss (PDF - Lowest Price!)
 $16.00 					     Subtotal $54.00      Update Cart   Checkout   Please note: If you have a promotional code you'll be prompted to enter it prior to confirming your order.
 Customer Sign In Returning Customer If you have an account, please sign in.
 New Customers If you subscribe to any of our print newsletters and have never activated your online account, please activate your account below for online access.
 By activating your account, you will create a login and password.
 You only need to activate your account once.
 Mind &amp; Mood     Inside Mind &amp; Mood:  Addiction Adult &amp; Child ADHD Alzheimer's &amp; Dementia Anxiety Depression Improving Memory Mental Health Positive Psychology Stress    Featured Content:    										Blood test could find Alzheimer’s disease before symptoms appear »     										Happy holidays?
 »     										The thinking on flavonoids »     										Tips to improve concentration »     										Worries on your mind »    See All   In Case You Missed It:      Medications for depression: Which is best?
 What is cognitive reserve?
 Non-drug treatments for adult ADHD         						Get the latest news on health and wellness delivered to your inbox!
 Pain     Inside Pain:  Arthritis Back Pain Headache Joint Replacement Other Pain    Featured Content:    										Use topical painkillers for strains and sprains »     										Can home remedies help my sciatica?
 »     										Trigeminal Neuralgia (Tic Douloureux) »     										Relief for sore backsides »     										Will my herniated disc heal on its own?
 »    See All   In Case You Missed It:      5 exercises to improve hand mobility           When to seek immediate medical attention for neck pain          5 tips for coping with sciatica         						Get the latest news on health and wellness delivered to your inbox!
 Staying Healthy     Inside Staying Healthy:  Aging Balance &amp; Mobility Diet &amp; Weight Loss Energy &amp; Fatigue Exercise &amp; Fitness Healthy Eating Physical Activity Screening Tests for Men Screening Tests for Women Sleep    Featured Content:    										5 factors to help you gauge where COVID-19 risk is highest »     										5 things to know about your morning cup of joe »     										About face »     										Are you healthy enough to age in place?
 »     										New ingredient may keep bugs at bay »    See All   In Case You Missed It:      Slow down—and try mindful eating           The best anti-inflammatory diets          Clean eating: The good and the bad         						Get the latest news on health and wellness delivered to your inbox!
 Cancer     Inside Cancer:  Breast Cancer Colorectal Cancer Other Cancers Prostate Health &amp; Disease Skin Cancer    Featured Content:    										Gum disease linked to an increased risk for cancer »     										More daily movement may lower cancer deaths »     										Oral health problems may raise cancer risk »     										Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lung »     										Throat Cancer (Larynx and Pharynx) »    See All   In Case You Missed It:      Treating prostate cancer with combined hormonal-radiation therapy         Androgens, the family of male sex hormones that includes testosterone, function as a fuel for growth in normal development.
 Can diet help fight prostate cancer?
 Can adopting a healthier diet help fight prostate cancer?
 Most melanomas start as new spots       Most melanomas come in the form of a new spot on the skin, not changes to an existing mole.
 Get the latest news on health and wellness delivered to your inbox!
 Diseases &amp; Conditions     Inside Diseases &amp; Conditions:  Adult &amp; Child ADHD Alzheimer's &amp; Dementia Diabetes Digestive Health Heart Disease More Diseases &amp; Conditions Osteoporosis Stroke Thyroid Diseases    Featured Content:    										Feel woozy?
 Do this first »     										How does inflammation increase the risk for heart attacks?
 »     										Should I worry about a sudden swollen tongue?
 »     										The new-old way to treat gout »     										What could cause low blood pressure?
 »    See All   In Case You Missed It:      Warning signs of a serious eye problem           Choosing the right sunglasses          11 ways to curb your drinking         						Get the latest news on health and wellness delivered to your inbox!
 Men's Health     Inside Men's Health:  Birth Control Erectile Dysfunction Exercise &amp; Fitness Healthy Eating Men's Sexual Health Prostate Cancer Prostate Health &amp; Disease Screening Tests for Men    Featured Content:    										Get back in sexual sync »     										Plant protein may help you live longer »     										Speaking up about orgasms »     										Does human growth hormone slow the aging process?
 »     										The no-drug approach to erectile dysfunction »    See All   In Case You Missed It:      Treatment: Watchful waiting for an enlarged prostate           5 things that can scuttle good sex          An enlarged prostate gland and incontinence         Some men with an enlarged prostate gland (benign prostatic hyperplasia, or BPH for short) eventually start to experience urinary incontinence, the involuntary discharge of urine.
 Get the latest news on health and wellness delivered to your inbox!
 Women's Health     Inside Women's Health:  Birth Control Breast Health &amp; Disease Exercise &amp; Fitness Healthy Eating Menopause Osteoporosis Pregnancy Screening Tests for Women Women's Sexual Health    Featured Content:    										A silent condition may be taking a toll on your health »     										Can acupuncture help my menopause symptoms?
 »     										Smokers may have higher risk of brain aneurysm »     										Protect your bones with tai chi »     										Uterine Cancer »    See All   In Case You Missed It:      The muscle-bone connection           The best exercises for your bones          Hypothyroidism symptoms and signs in an older person         Some people over age 60 have few, if any, symptoms of an underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism), while others experience the same symptoms younger people do.
 Get the latest news on health and wellness delivered to your inbox!
 Children's Health     Inside Children's Health:  Adult &amp; Child ADHD Autism Developmental Milestones Learning Disabilities Nutrition Nutrition for children Parenting Issues Physical Activity Vaccinations    Featured Content:    										Different types of heart murmurs »     										Should I worry about grandkids’ sports?
 »     										CPR Resource Center »     										School Lunches »     										Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children »    See All   In Case You Missed It:      						Get the latest news on health and wellness delivered to your inbox!
 Licensing           Not Found The page you requested could not be found.
 Recent Posts     					Early birds may be more active, but night owls can catch up				   				Nov 06, 2020			     					Type 2 diabetes: Which medication is best for me?
 Nov 05, 2020			     					It’s still true: Not all the news about COVID-19 is bad				   				Nov 04, 2020			     					Coping With IBS				   				Nov 03, 2020			     					Defusing the “Benadryl challenge”: Discussing danger with teens				   				Nov 02, 2020			     Recent Comments    				Comment on  				 					It’s still true: Not all the news about COVID-19 is bad				     				Comment on  				 					Intermittent fasting: Does a new study show downsides — or not?
 Comment on  				 					Intermittent fasting: Does a new study show downsides — or not?
 Comment on  				 					Intermittent fasting: Does a new study show downsides — or not?
 Comment on  				 					Illness-related fatigue: More than just feeling tired				      Archive     2020    November   October   September   August   July   June   May   April   March   February   January       2019    December   November   October   September   August   July   June   May   April   March   February   January       2018    December   November   October   September   August   July   June   May   April   March   February   January       2017    December   November   October   September   August   July   June   May   April   March   February   January       2016    December   November   October   September   August   July   June   May   April   March   February   January       2015    December   November   October   September   August   July   June   May   April   March   February   January       2014    December   November   October   September   August   July   June   May   April   March   February   January       2013    December   November   October   September   August   July   June   May   April   March   February   January       2012    December   November   October   September   August   July   June   May   April   March   February   January       2011    December   November   October   September   August   July   June   May   April   March   February   January       2010    December   November   October   September   August       2009    December   November   October   September   June   April   March   February     Our Experts      Howard LeWine, M.D.
 The Content is not intended to substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment.
 Always seek the advice of your healthcare provider with any questions you may have regarding your medical condition.
 Never disregard professional medical advice or delay in seeking it because of something you have read in a public group(s).
 If you think you may have a medical emergency, call your healthcare provider or 911 immediately.
 Any mention of products or services is not meant as a guarantee, endorsement, or recommendation of the products, services, or companies.
 Reliance on any information provided is solely at your own risk.
 Please discuss any options with your healthcare provider.
 The information you share, including that which might otherwise be Protected Health Information, to this site is by design open to the public and is not a private, secure service.
 You should think carefully before disclosing any personal information in any public forum.
 What you have written may be seen, disclosed to, or collected by third parties and may be used by others in ways we are unable to control or predict, including to contact you or otherwise be used for unauthorized or unlawful purposes.
 As with any public forum on any site, this information may also appear in third-party search engines like Google, MSN, Yahoo, etc.
 View Less   
 The contents displayed within this public group(s), such as text, graphics, and other material ("Content") are intended for educational purposes only.
 The Content is not intended to substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment.
 .
 .
 .
 All rights reserved.
 /* */
