Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link           Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People     Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People        Search        ×  Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index                  CDC WONDER FAQ Help Contact Us WONDER Search            Section Navigation           TP Docs Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Syndicate                              About Underlying Cause of Death, 1999-2018     
 Queries in WONDER may be intermittently unavailable November 8 due to maintenance: 
 		6 am – Noon EST and
 		6 pm – Midnight EST
 	                        
 	sendMsgInit();
       Dataset Documentation
 	Other Data AccessData Use RestrictionsHow to Use WONDER        Note: Any use of these data implies consent to abide by the terms of the data use restrictions.
 The Underlying Cause of Death database contains mortality and population counts 
 		for all U.S. counties.
 Data are based on death certificates for U.S. residents.
 Each death certificate identifies a single underlying cause of death and demographic data.
 The number of deaths, crude death rates or age-adjusted death rates, and 
 		95% confidence intervals and standard errors for death rates can be obtained by 
 		place of residence (total U.S., region, state and county), 
 		age group (single-year-of age, 5-year age groups, 10-year age groups and infant age groups),
 		race, Hispanic ethnicity, gender, year, 
 		cause-of-death (4-digit ICD-10 code or group of codes), 
 		injury intent and injury mechanism, drug/alcohol induced causes and urbanization categories.
 Data are also available for place of death, month and week day of death, 
 		and whether an autopsy was performed.
 Data Use Restrictions:  
 		The Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
 242m(d)) provides that the data collected by the 
 		National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) may be used only for the purpose for which they were obtained; 
 		any effort to determine the identity of any reported cases, or to use the information for any purpose other 
 		than for health statistical reporting and analysis, is against the law.
 Therefore users will:
 
 		 Use these data for health statistical reporting and analysis only.
 For sub-national geography, do not present or publish death counts of 9 or fewer or
 			death rates based on counts of nine or fewer (in figures, graphs, maps, tables, etc.).
 Make no attempt to learn the identity of any person or establishment included in these data.
 Make no disclosure or other use of the identity of any person or establishment discovered inadvertently 
 			and advise the NCHS Confidentiality Officer of any such discovery.
 Confidentiality Officer 
 		 National Center for Health Statistics 
 		 3311 Toledo Road
 		 Hyattsville, MD 20782 
 		 Telephone 888-642-4159
  		 Email: nchsconfidentiality@cdc.gov
 		    Sanctions for Violating Rules:   
 		Researchers who violate the terms of the data use restrictions will lose access to WONDER 
 		and their sponsors and institutions will be notified.
 Researchers who are suspected of 
 		violating the rules may be prevented from using WONDER until an investigation can be completed.
 Deliberately making a false statement in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or 
 		agency of the Federal government violates 18 USC 1001 and is punishable by a fine of up to $10,000 
 		or up to 5 years in prison, or both.
 By clicking the "I Agree" button I signify that I will abide by the terms of data use stated above
 		and understand the sanctions and legal penalties for violation of these terms of use.
 Click Dataset Documentation
 for complete information about this dataset.
 Content source: CDC WONDER                HAVE QUESTIONS?
 Visit CDC-INFO      Call 800-232-4636      Email CDC-INFO     CDC INFORMATION  About CDC Jobs Funding Policies File Viewers &amp; Players     Privacy FOIA No Fear Act OIG Nondiscrimination Accessibility    CONNECT WITH CDC  Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram   Syndicate CDC TV RSS Email            U.S. Department of Health &amp; Human Services     USA.gov     CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon           Facebook   Twitter   LinkedIn   Email          Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy  Close       Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 updateVariables(s);
 
 		// Set the referrer value if passed on the querystring from a CDC page-level redirect.
