1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays    1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays     Menu                 Watch Live Watch   Alerts      Live Watch 0     Close x   Live Watch    Alerts        Go         The Rebound    Doing what's right  Getting back to work  Keeping You Safe  Making ends meet  Managing the pressure  How Can We Help?
 Job Search       Coronavirus Coverage       Election 2020    Local Elections  Economy in the 2020 Election  Coronavirus in the 2020 Election  Race Relations in the 2020 Election       News    Local News  Absolutely Arizona  America In Crisis  At The Box Office  Behind the Badge  Border Watch  Breast Cancer Awareness  Conquering Addiction  Consumer Reports  Education  Entertainment  Election 2020  Investigations  National News  Job Search - Indeed  Safe Roads  Teen Addictions  Understanding Autism  You Ask.
 We Investigate.®  Submit News Tips       Traffic       Weather    Hourly Forecast  7 Day  Radar Maps  Monsoon  Ask the Team  Severe Weather Alerts       Sports       You Ask.
 We Investigate.®       Video    Live Video  Absolutely Arizona  Inside Tucson's Crime Lab  The Fentanyl Crisis in So.Az.
 Securing the AZ Border  True Crime   Monsoon 2019: Surviving a desert storm  KGUN 9 on Roku  KGUN 9 on Amazon Fire TV  KGUN 9 Alexa Skill  KGUN9 on YouTube       Photo Galleries       About Us    The KGUN 9 Team  You Ask.
 We Investigate.®  Submit News Tips  Sensitive Footage Policy  Community Calendar  Advertise with Us  Jobs  Support       Contests       TV Listings       The Morning Blend    Be on the Show  Our Hosts  The Spot  HomePros  Facebook  Twitter  Instagram  Contests  Morning Blend Newsletters     Sign InNewsletters Sign OutManage Emails Apps Careers            Local News       Weather       "Ask The Team"       Election 2020       Coronavirus       Rebound Arizona       Safely Back to School       Contests       The CW Tucson       Quick links... Local News Weather "Ask The Team" Election 2020 Coronavirus Rebound Arizona Safely Back to School Contests The CW Tucson     1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays             KGUN 9 On Your SideNewsLocal News   Actions    Facebook    Tweet   Email        Underground bunker possibly used for human trafficking of children found in Tucson            By: Valerie Cavazos    Posted at 2:28 PM, May 31, 2018  and last updated 2018-06-04 08:24:52-04  A disturbing discovery near an abandoned plant off I-19.A documentary crew is shown an underground bunker believed to be used for human trafficking of children.Tucson Police tells us that they are not ruling out the possibility that it was used for human trafficking, but they say they believe the bunker is most likely being used as a homeless camp.Former Navy Seal Craig Sawyer is currently filming "Contraland" to expose the dark side of child sex slavery.
 Sawyer tells KGUN 9 a homeless advocacy group called his crew after they discovered the underground bunker -- shielded from plain sight -- at an abandoned cement plant -- shielded from plain sight.
 RELATED  Local former Navy Seal's mission to help eradicate sex slavery ... Navy Seal's mission to eradicate child sex trafficking - making a documentary... Navy SEAL "Failed follow up at Tucson VA" - KGUN9.com Former Navy Seal team examines abandoned camp off I-19 ... Tucson Police say they have no evidence of human trafficking at bunker ... Human Trafficking - a KGUN 9 Special Presentation - KGUN9.com  They found wrist restraints on a tree, swings, children's clothing and furniture inside and outside the cramped bunker.The group reported the find to law enforcement.
 Stay with KGUN9-TV and kgun9.com for more information on this developing story.
 Copyright 2018 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved.
 This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
 Report a typo    Sign up for the Headlines Newsletter and receive up to date information.
 now signed up to receive the Headlines Newsletter.
