Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display       × Contact CIA           The Office of Public Affairs (OPA) is the single point of contact for all inquiries about the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).
 We read every letter, fax, or e-mail we receive, and we will convey your comments to CIA officials outside OPA as appropriate.
 However, with limited staff and resources, we simply cannot respond to all who write to us.
 Contact Information Submit questions or comments online By postal mail: Central Intelligence Agency Office of Public Affairs Washington, D.C. 20505 Contact the Office of Privacy and Civil Liberties Contact the Office of Inspector General Contact the Employment Verification Office   Before contacting us: Please check our site map, search feature, or our site navigation on the left to locate the information you seek.
 We do not routinely respond to questions for which answers are found within this Web site.
 Employment: We do not routinely answer questions about employment beyond the information on this Web site, and we do not routinely answer inquiries about the status of job applications.
 Recruiting will contact applicants within 45 days if their qualifications meet our needs.
 Because of safety concerns for the prospective applicant, as well as security and communication issues, the CIA Recruitment Center does not accept resumes, nor can we return phone calls, e-mails or other forms of communication, from US citizens living outside of the US.
 When you return permanently to the US (not on vacation or leave), please visit the CIA Careers page and apply online for the position of interest.To verify an employee's employment, please contact the Employment Verification Office.
 Solicitations to transfer large sums of money to your bank account: If you receive a solicitation to transfer a large amount of money from an African nation to your bank account in exchange for a payment of millions of dollars, go to the US Secret Service Web site for information about the Nigerian Advance Fee Fraud or "4-1-9" Fraud scheme.
 If you have information which you believe might be of interest to the CIA in pursuit of the CIA's foreign intelligence mission, you may use our e-mail form.
 We will carefully protect all information you provide, including your identity.
 The CIA, as a foreign intelligence agency, does not engage in US domestic law enforcement.
 If you have information relating to Iraq which you believe might be of interest to the US Government, please contact us through the Iraqi Rewards Program —
