Skip to main contentClosecloseDonateWBURwbur BostonomixAboutTwitterArchivePlay Listen LiveSchedulePrograms + PodcastsSearchAboutCitySpaceDonate Your CarMembershipInside WBURCampaign For WBURCoronavirus CoverageMAP: Coronavirus CasesTown-By-Town DataOn PointHere &amp; NowRadio BostonCommonHealthCognoscentiThe ARTeryMoreListen Live: 1APlay15sRepeatPlay15sForward/00:00Playing LiveCloseClose1AValue this story?
 DonateWBURwbur DonateSearch BostonomixSupport the news Despite 'Panic Shopping' At Grocery Stores, Experts Say Don't Worry About U.S. Food Supply03:03DownloadXCopy the code below to embed the WBUR audio player on your site Copy embed codePlayMarch 13, 2020Simón RiosTwitterBruce GellermanTwitterTwitterfacebookEmailA Trader Joe's employee, second from right, receives groceries from a delivery man, right, as customers line up to enter the store, Friday.
 (Mary Altaffer/AP)At its 17 stores around the region, the grocery chain Roche Bros. said demand was up nearly three times since Thursday following a rush of news that pointed to an impending coronavirus outbreak in the U.S.The spike in shopping has sparked fears that food supply chains will struggle to meet a sustained increase in demand.“The situation is tough right now,” said Arthur Ackles, vice president of merchandising and buying at Roche Brothers.
 “Over the past seven or eight days, our customers have been coming into the stores at a pretty alarming rate.”Ackles said last Thursday and Friday saw a roughly 10% increase in foot traffic, while this Thursday and Friday the increase skyrocketed to between 200% and 300%.While paper and hygienic products have been in short supply for days, only recently have customers started clearing shelves of food products, Ackles said.“We’re still getting [food] in, fortunately," he added, "but at the pace that it's going, if it keeps up like this for a few more days, those areas are going to get sparse as well.
 "Fears over the virus have set off what some experts described as "panic shopping."
 The phenomenon, they said, has been fueled by images of long lines and empty shelves that led more people to rush to the grocery store.But some observers of supply chains said consumers don't need to panic about long-term shortages.Yossi Sheffi, director of MIT's Center for Transportation Logistics, said the current run on grocery stores is like what happens before a snowstorm — only worse.
 People fear the unknown, he said, and they're preparing for what could be weeks, even months, of uncertainty.Sheffi attributed much of the fear to shortcomings in national political leadership.
 But he said the strong food system in the U.S. can make up for the political shortcomings.“I don't think this will be a long-term issue,” he said.
 “People get their pantries full ... and the United States food supply chain is pretty robust.
 "But a report out this week from the management consultancy Bain &amp; Company indicated supply chains across markets could face tough times.
 In light of the experience of China’s retail sector during the worst of the outbreak there, the report said supply chains were a "huge challenge" for companies, with slowdowns in production and distribution.According to the report, the coronavirus will play out for retailers in three phases: Phase 1.
 The virus is present but has not yet infected many people.
 While day-to-day life is mostly normal, consumers are beginning to stock up on essentials and cut discretionary spending.
 ...
 Phase 2.
 The virus has become prevalent in the market (or in markets where supplies originate), with governments taking restrictive actions (such as quarantines or closing schools and public places) that result in labor shortages and considerable disruption to supply and demand.
 ...
 Phase 3.
 Recovery and beyond—the situation progressively returns to (a new) normal.
 Competitive positions and customer relationships may have been significantly altered.”Ackles said there's one step to ease some of the pressure on suppliers: suspend limitations on how many hours truck drivers can work.
 That's a move that may be controversial.“The supply chain is getting worse by the second,” he said Friday evening.Ackles said he's expecting that 50% of the product he ordered earlier that day will not arrive on time.“I know our company and other competitors are ravaged right now," he said, "and there’s not going to be a lot of product available for people to get [over the weekend].
 99% Invisible is a weekly exploration of the process and power of design and architecture.
 From award winning producer Roman Mars.
 Twenty five years later, Maria is on a quest to understand what it means to love, mourn and remember Selena.
 In this intimate journey, Maria explores what Selena’s legacy shows us about belonging in America.
 Some of the victims were career criminals.
 Some were truly innocent.
 All of them left behind families who never saw justice.
 Each 10- to 20-minute episode explores important issues like kindness, persistence and generosity.
 And each episode ends with an activity that inspires a deeper conversation between children and grown-ups.
 Every weekday afternoon, the hosts of All Things Considered and Kelly McEvers from Embedded help you consider the major stories of the day in less than 15 minutes, featuring the reporting and storytelling resources of NPR.
 Listeners in Boston will hear reporting on their community from their community, alongside a national view from NPR.
 Produced by WNYC Studios.
 Host Geoff Edgers paints intimate, sound-rich, and surprising portraits of some of the most creative people in the world.
 The first season includes: Norm Macdonald, Ava Duvernay, Ms. Pat, Hanson and David Letterman.
 A collaboration between WBUR and The Washington Post.
 ","type":"section","subnav":[],"relativeURL":"\u002Fedify-higher-ed","apiURL":"http:\u002F\u002Fapi.wbur.org\u002Fchannels\u002Fedify-higher-ed","externalURL":null,"miniExcerpt":"Edify's home for higher education news and feature stories.
 Hosts Ben Brock Johnson and Amory Sivertson dig into the site's vast and curious ecosystem of online communities, collaborating with Reddit's 330 million users and over 140 thousand communities to find all kinds of jaw-dropping narratives.
 A collaboration between WBUR and Reddit.
 CitySpace is WBUR on stage.
 Convening leaders in all fields for an array of offerings — readings, interviews, debates, conversations, panels, podcasts, performances, story slams, theater, comedy, book clubs, demonstrations — CitySpace is the destination to be inspired, to be entertained, to be educated.
 Be part of the intimate audience or listen to the broadcast.
 CitySpace is WBUR on stage.
 Hosts Juna Gjata and Dr. Eddie Phillips wield solid science, medical knowledge, common sense and an endless supply of dad jokes to teach us how to eat better and feel better about it.
 Hint: It’s not dieting.
 They discuss exercise, body image, food addiction, genetics, weight loss and more.
 A WBUR production.
 Hosted by Pulitzer Prize-winning author and journalist Ron Suskind and noted Boston College historian Heather Cox Richardson, the podcast examines the national political landscape and dives into the historical context.
 New episodes available every Thursday.
 Well, the moment is here and the podcast making it happen is Heavyweight from Gimlet Media.
 In each episode, hosts and reporters Yasmin Amer and Andrea Asuaje search the world for good news stories that will restore your faith in humanity.
 A production of WBUR.
 Twenty-eight years later, not a single piece in a haul worth half a billion dollars has surfaced.
 The art, and the thieves who made off with it, remain at large.
 With first-ever interviews, unprecedented access, and more than a year of investigative reporting, \"Last Seen\" takes us into the biggest unsolved art heist in history.
 A joint production from WBUR and The Boston Globe.
 We’re interested in what experiments are happening in Massachusetts K-12 schools, what is being learned and who is behind them.
 We want to understand how Massachusetts students will be learning two, five and 10 years from now.
 It has included performances by Kate Winslet, Uma Thurman, Angela Bassett, Jake Gyllenhaal, Sterling K. Brown, and more.
 A collaboration between WBUR and The New York Times.
 Produced by WNYC Studios.
 From the economy and health care to politics and the environment – and so much more – On Point host Meghna Chakrabarti speaks with newsmakers and real people about the issues that matter most.
 On Point is produced by WBUR for NPR.
 Interrogative.
 Insightful.
 And trained rats, time travel, celebrity dogs, lovelorn phone scammers, angry flower children, workplace iguanas, and more.
 Hosted by PJ Vogt and Alex Goldman, from Gimlet.
 Credible, fact based and without a partisan agenda, Reveal combines the power and artistry of “driveway moment” storytelling with data-rich reporting on critically important issues.
 The result is stories that inform and inspire, arming our listeners with information to right injustices, hold the powerful accountable and improve lives.
 From Malcolm Gladwell and Panoply Media.
 Hosted by Boston Globe sports columnist Chris Gasper, in partnership with WBUR, Boston’s NPR station, this daily show will make you feel closer to your favorite teams than ever before.
 \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n","type":"section","subnav":[],"relativeURL":"\u002Fjfk-massachusetts-centennial","apiURL":"http:\u002F\u002Fapi.wbur.org\u002Fchannels\u002Fjfk-massachusetts-centennial","externalURL":null,"miniExcerpt":"How Massachusetts shaped JFK -- and how he shaped the commonwealth.
 Learn a ton.
 Laugh a lot.
 And in the future, the nature of work may look drastically different.
 This 2017 Bostonomix series looks at the jobs of the future and the skills needed for those jobs.
 (Published Oct. 30 - Nov. 3)","type":"section","subnav":[],"relativeURL":"\u002Ffuture-of-work","apiURL":"http:\u002F\u002Fapi.wbur.org\u002Fchannels\u002Ffuture-of-work","externalURL":null,"miniExcerpt":"Work is changing.
 And in the future, the nature of work may look drastically different.
 This 2017 Bostonomix series looks at the jobs of the future and the skills needed for those jobs.
 But the story has just begun.
 Most of the stories are journalism, with an occasional comedy routine or essay.
 The biggest stories and ideas — from politics to pop culture — in 10 minutes.
 ","source":"wait-wait-dont-tell-me","description":"NPR's weekly current events quiz show.
 News with those who make the news, great guests and topical debate.
 Weekday conversation framed in ways to make you think, share and engage.
 From NPR and WAMU.
 We feature provocative stories and authentic voices, reflecting what is unique about this city, state and region.
 From the economy and health care to politics and the environment – and so much more – On Point host Meghna Chakrabarti speaks with newsmakers and real people about the issues that matter most.
 On Point is produced by WBUR for NPR.
 Where sound illuminates ideas, and the boundaries blur between science, philosophy, and human experience.
 We feature provocative stories and authentic voices, reflecting what is unique about this city, state and region.
 News with those who make the news, great guests and topical debate.
 Weekday conversation framed in ways to make you think, share and engage.
 From NPR and WAMU.
 From the economy and health care to politics and the environment – and so much more – On Point host Meghna Chakrabarti speaks with newsmakers and real people about the issues that matter most.
 On Point is produced by WBUR for NPR.
 News with those who make the news, great guests and topical debate.
 Weekday conversation framed in ways to make you think, share and engage.
 From NPR and WAMU.
 We feature provocative stories and authentic voices, reflecting what is unique about this city, state and region.
 The son of an Uruguayan father and an American mother, he is a proud father and an amateur classical guitarist.
 ","Simón joined the station after two years at The Standard-Times in New Bedford, where he cut his teeth covering immigration and business as well a stint reporting on the nation’s top fishing port.
 ","He graduated from Emerson College in 2005 with a BA in writing, literature and journalism.
 After college, Simón spent 17 months traveling through Latin America, documenting his stories as he hitchhiked through Mexico, Cuba, Brazil and 14 other countries.
 ","At WBUR he covers the wave of development that’s changing the face of Boston, with an eye on demographics and inequality.
 He has also traveled to Puerto Rico several times since Hurricane Maria, bring back stories about the bridges between the island and the more than 300,000 Boricuas who call Massachusetts home.
 ","Simón’s work experience includes jobs as a musician, a carpenter’s helper and a cab driver.
 He is a native Spanish speaker and is conversational in Brazilian Portuguese.
 "],"apiURL":"http:\u002F\u002Fapi.wbur.org\u002Fpeople\u002Fsimon-rios","relativeURL":"\u002Finside\u002Fstaff\u002Fsimon-rios","organization":"wbur","embedMeta":null,"shortBio":"Simón Ríos is an award-winning bilingual reporter in WBUR's newsroom.
 Bruce is a member of WBUR's EarthWhile team focusing on stories about energy, the environment and the future of everything.
 "],"apiURL":"http:\u002F\u002Fapi.wbur.org\u002Fpeople\u002Fbruce-gellerman","relativeURL":"\u002Finside\u002Fstaff\u002Fbruce-gellerman","organization":"wbur","embedMeta":null,"shortBio":"Bruce Gellerman is an award-winning journalist and senior correspondent, frequently covering science, business, technology and the environment.
 “Over the past seven or eight days, our customers have been coming into the stores at a pretty alarming rate.”","\u003C!--more--\u003E","Ackles said last Thursday and Friday saw a roughly 10% increase in foot traffic, while this Thursday and Friday the increase skyrocketed to between 200% and 300%.
 ","While paper and hygienic products have been in short supply for days, only recently have customers started clearing shelves of food products, Ackles said.
 ","“We’re still getting [food] in, fortunately,\" he added, \"but at the pace that it's going, if it keeps up like this for a few more days, those areas are going to get sparse as well.\"","Fears over the virus have set off what some experts described as \"panic shopping.\" The phenomenon, they said, has been fueled by images of long lines and empty shelves that led more people to rush to the grocery store.
 ","But some observers of supply chains said consumers don't need to panic about long-term shortages.
 ","Yossi Sheffi, director of MIT's Center for Transportation Logistics, said the current run on grocery stores is like what happens before a snowstorm &mdash; only worse.
 People fear the unknown, he said, and they're preparing for what could be weeks, even months, of uncertainty.
 ","Sheffi attributed much of the fear to shortcomings in national political leadership.
 But he said the strong food system in the U.S. can make up for the political shortcomings.
 ","“I don't think this will be a long-term issue,” he said.
 In light of the experience of China’s retail sector during the worst of the outbreak there, the report said supply chains were a \"huge challenge\" for companies, with slowdowns in production and distribution.
 ","According to the report, the coronavirus will play out for retailers in three phases:","\u003Cblockquote\u003E\u003Cbr \u002F\u003E\u003Cul\u003E \t\u003Cli\u003E\u003Cstrong\u003EPhase 1.\u003C\u002Fstrong\u003E The virus is present but has not yet infected many people.
 While day-to-day life is mostly normal, consumers are beginning to stock up on essentials and cut discretionary spending.
 ...\u003C\u002Fli\u003E \t\u003Cli\u003E\u003Cstrong\u003EPhase 2.\u003C\u002Fstrong\u003E The virus has become prevalent in the market (or in markets where supplies originate), with governments taking restrictive actions (such as quarantines or closing schools and public places) that result in labor shortages and considerable disruption to supply and demand.
 ...\u003C\u002Fli\u003E \t\u003Cli\u003E\u003Cstrong\u003EPhase 3.\u003C\u002Fstrong\u003E Recovery and beyond—the situation progressively returns to (a new) normal.
 Competitive positions and customer relationships may have been significantly altered.”\u003C\u002Fli\u003E\u003C\u002Ful\u003E\u003Cbr \u002F\u003E\u003C\u002Fblockquote\u003E","Ackles said there's one step to ease some of the pressure on suppliers: suspend limitations on how many hours truck drivers can work.
 That's a move that may be controversial.
 ","“The supply chain is getting worse by the second,” he said Friday evening.
 ","Ackles said he's expecting that 50% of the product he ordered earlier that day will not arrive on time.
 (Mary Altaffer\u002FAP)","caption":"A Trader Joe's employee, second from right, receives groceries from a delivery man, right, as customers line up to enter the store, Friday.
 (Mary Altaffer\u002FAP)","description":"A Trader Joe's employee, second from right, receives groceries from a delivery man, right, as customers line up to enter the store, Friday.
 (Mary Altaffer\u002FAP)","caption":"A Trader Joe's employee, second from right, receives groceries from a delivery man, right, as customers line up to enter the store, Friday.
 (Mary Altaffer\u002FAP)","description":"A Trader Joe's employee, second from right, receives groceries from a delivery man, right, as customers line up to enter the store, Friday.
