Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                  Vaccine Safety             Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                            Autism and Vaccines     Minus     Related Pages     Questions and ConcernsAutism spectrum disorder (ASD)is a developmental disability that can cause significant social, communication, and behavioral challenges.
 Recent estimates from CDC’s Autism and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring Network found that about 1 in 54 children have been identified with ASD in communities across the United States.
 CDC is committed to providing essential data on ASD, searching for causes of and factors that increase the risk for ASD, and developing resources that help identify children with ASD as early as possible.
 There is no link between vaccines and autism.
 Some people have had concerns that ASD might be linked to the vaccines children receive, but studies have shown that there is no link between receiving vaccines and developing ASD.
 In 2011, an Institute of Medicine (IOM) reportexternal icon on eight vaccines given to children and adults found that with rare exceptions, these vaccines are very safe.
 A 2013 CDC study [PDF – 7 pages]external icon added to the research showing that vaccines do not cause ASD.
 The study looked at the number of antigens (substances in vaccines that cause the body’s immune system to produce disease-fighting antibodies) from vaccines during the first two years of life.
 The results showed that the total amount of antigen from vaccines received was the same between children with ASD and those that did not have ASD.
 Vaccine ingredients do not cause autism.
 One vaccine ingredient that has been studied specifically is thimerosal, a mercury-based preservative used to prevent contamination of multidose vials of vaccines.
 Research shows that thimerosal does not cause ASD.
 In fact, a 2004 scientific reviewexternal icon by the IOM concluded that “the evidence favors rejection of a causal relationship between thimerosal–containing vaccines and autism.” Since 2003, there have been nine CDC-funded or conducted studies pdf icon[PDF – 2 pages] that have found no link between thimerosal-containing vaccines and ASD, as well as no link between the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine and ASD in children.
 Between 1999 and 2001, thimerosal was removed or reduced to trace amounts in all childhood vaccines except for some flu vaccines.
 This was done as part of a broader national effort to reduce all types of mercury exposure in children before studies were conducted that determined that thimerosal was not harmful.
 It was done as a precaution.
 Currently, the only childhood vaccines that contain thimerosal are flu vaccines packaged in multidose vials.
 Thimerosal-free alternatives are also available for flu vaccine.
 For more information, see the Timeline for Thimerosal in Vaccines.
 Besides thimerosal, some people have had concerns about other vaccine ingredients in relation to ASD as well.
 However, no links have been found between any vaccine ingredients and ASD.
 Top of PageMore Information  Facts About Autism Spectrum Disorders Fact Sheet: Understanding Thimerosal, Mercury, and Vaccine Safety pdf icon[PDF – 2 pages] IOM Report: Adverse Effects of Vaccines: Evidence and Causality, 2011 Timeline: Thimerosal in Vaccines (1999-2010) Frequently Asked Questions about Thimerosal  Top of PageRelated Scientific Articles Taylor LE, Swerdfeger AL, Eslick GD.
 Vaccines are not associated with autism: An evidence-based meta-analysis of case-control and cohort studiesexternal iconexternal icon.
 Vaccine.
 2014 June;32(29):3623–3629.
 Schechter R, Grether JK.
 Continuing increases in autism reported to California’s developmental services system: Mercury in retrogradeexternal icon.
 Arch Gen Psychiatry.
 2008;65:19-24.
 Institute of Medicine.
 Immunization Safety Review.
 Vaccines and Autismexternal icon Board of Health Promotion and Disease Prevention, Institute of Medicine (National Academy Press, Washington, DC, 2004).
 Hviid A, Stellfeld M, Wohlfahrt J, Melbye M. Association between thimerosal-containing vaccine and autism pdf icon[PDF – 5 pages]external icon.
 JAMA.
 2003;290:1763–6.
 Madsen KM, Hviid A, Vestergaard M, Schendel D, Wohlfahrt J, et al.
 A population-based study of measles, mumps, and rubella vaccination and autismexternal icon.
 N Engl J Med.
 2002;347 (19):1477–1482.
 Ball L, Ball R, Pratt RD.An assessment of thimerosal in childhood vaccinesexternal icon.
 Pediatrics.
 2001;107:1147–1154.
 Joint statement of the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) and the United States Public Health Service (USPHS)external icon.
 Pediatrics.
 1999;104:568–9.
 Top of Page          
 					Page last reviewed: August 25, 2020 Content source: 	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion (DHQP)         homeVaccine Safety  Safety Information by Vaccineplus icon  Chickenpox (Varicella) Vaccines Diphtheria, Tetanus, and Pertussis Vaccines Haemophilus influenza Type b (Hib) Vaccines Hepatitis A Vaccines Hepatitis B Vaccines Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccineplus icon  Questions about HPV Vaccine Safety   Influenza (Flu) Vaccines Measles, Mumps, Rubella (MMR) Vaccinesplus icon  MMR Safety Studies   Measles, Mumps, Rubella, Varicella (MMRV) Vaccinesplus icon  VSD MMRV Safety Study MMRV Safety Studies MMRV and Febrile Seizures   Meningococcal Vaccines Pneumococcal Vaccines Rotavirus Vaccine Shingles (Herpes Zoster) Vaccines Smallpox Vaccine   Questions and Concernsplus icon  Adjuvants Autismplus icon  CDC Statement: 2004 Pediatrics Paper on MMR and Autism   Fainting after Vaccination Febrile Seizures Guillain-Barre Syndrome Multiple Vaccinations at Once Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) Thimerosalplus icon  CDC Study (2010 ) on Thimerosal and Risk of Autism Thimerosal FAQs Related Scientific Articles Infant and Environmental Exposures to Thimerosal 2007 Study Timeline: Thimerosal in Vaccines   Vaccines During Pregnancy FAQs FAQs about Vaccine Recalls Historical Vaccine Safety Concernsplus icon  GBS and Menactra Vaccine FAQs Gardasil Vaccine Recall (2013) FAQs Hep B and Multiple Sclerosis FAQs Hib Vaccine Recall (2007) Summary Narcolepsy Following Pandemrix Influenza Vaccination in Europe     Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon  Talking to Patients About Vaccine Safety Reporting Adverse Events Resources for Healthcare Providers   Information for Parents and Caregiversplus icon  Vaccine Safety FAQs   Researchplus icon  Publications Institute of Medicine (IOM) Reports ISO Scientific Agenda   Ensuring Safetyplus icon  Overview, History, and How It Works Side Effects and Adverse Events Vaccine Safety Monitoringplus icon  Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS)plus icon  How to Access Data from CDC’s VAERS WONDER System Print and Web Material VAERS Publications   CISAplus icon  CISA Resources for Healthcare Professionals Evaluation Clinical Research Studies Historical Background 2001-12 Publications Technical Reports   Vaccine Safety Datalink (VSD)plus icon  Accessing Data from Vaccine Safety Datalink Data Sharing Guidelines Vaccine Safety Datalink Publications   Emergency Preparedness   Vaccine Safety Partners   About ISO     Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:  Email Address  What's this?
 Submit                HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
