Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                  Tuberculosis (TB)             Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                            Fact SheetsEspañol (Spanish)     Minus     Related Pages     (PDFpdf icon – 100k) BCG Vaccine Introduction BCG, or bacille Calmette-Guerin, is a vaccine for tuberculosis (TB) disease.
 Many foreign-born persons have been BCG-vaccinated.
 BCG is used in many countries with a high prevalence of TB to prevent childhood tuberculous meningitis and miliary disease.
 The BCG vaccine should be considered only for very select persons who meet specific criteria and in consultation with a TB expert.
 Recommendations Children.
 BCG vaccination should only be considered for children who have a negative tuberculin skin test and who are continually exposed, and cannot be separated from, adults who  Are untreated or ineffectively treated for TB disease (if the child cannot be given long-term treatment for infection); or Have TB caused by strains resistant to isoniazid and rifampin.
 Health Care Workers.
 BCG vaccination of health care workers should be considered on an individual basis in settings in which  A high percentage of TB patients are infected with M. tuberculosis strains resistant to both isoniazid and rifampin; There is ongoing transmission of such drug-resistant M. tuberculosis strains to health care workers and subsequent infection is likely; or Comprehensive TB infection-control precautions have been implemented, but have not been successful.
 Health care workers considered for BCG vaccination should be counseled regarding the risks and benefits associated with both BCG vaccination and treatment of Latent TB Infection (LTBI).
 Contraindications Immunosuppression.
 BCG vaccination should not be given to persons who are immunosuppressed (e.g., persons who are HIV infected) or who are likely to become immunocompromised (e.g., persons who are candidates for organ transplant).
 Pregnancy.
 BCG vaccination should not be given during pregnancy.
 Even though no harmful effects of BCG vaccination on the fetus have been observed, further studies are needed to prove its safety.
 Testing for TB in BCG-Vaccinated Persons The tuberculin skin test (TST) and blood tests to detect TB infection are not contraindicated for persons who have been vaccinated with BCG.
 Tuberculin Skin Test (TST).
 BCG vaccination may cause a false-positive reaction to the TST, which may complicate decisions about prescribing treatment.
 The presence or size of a TST reaction in persons who have been vaccinated with BCG does not predict whether BCG will provide any protection against TB disease.
 Furthermore, the size of a TST reaction in a BCG-vaccinated person is not a factor in determining whether the reaction is caused by LTBI or the prior BCG vaccination.
 (See below for specific guidance on skin test results.)
 TB Blood Tests.
 Blood tests to detect TB infection, unlike the TST, are not affected by prior BCG vaccination and are less likely to give a false-positive result.
 Treatment for LTBI in BCG-Vaccinated Persons Treatment of LTBI substantially reduces the risk that TB infection will progress to disease.
 Careful assessment to rule out the possibility of TB disease is necessary before treatment for LTBI is started.
 Evaluation of TST reactions in persons vaccinated with BCG should be interpreted using the same criteria for those not BCG-vaccinated.
 Persons in the following high-risk groups should be given treatment for LTBI if their reaction to the TST is at least 5 mm of induration or they have a positive result using a TB blood test:  HIV-infected persons Recent contacts to a TB case Persons with fibrotic changes on chest radiograph consistent with old TB Patients with organ transplants Persons who are immunosuppressed for other reasons (e.g., taking the equivalent of &gt;15 mg/day of prednisone for 1 month or longer, taking TNF-a antagonists)  In addition, persons in the following high-risk groups should be considered for treatment of LTBI if their reaction to the TST is at least 10 mm of induration or they have a positive result using a TB blood test:  Recent arrivals (less than 5 years) from high-prevalence countries Injection drug users Residents and employees of high-risk congregate settings (e.g., correctional facilities, nursing homes, homeless shelters, hospitals, and other health care facilities) Mycobacteriology laboratory personnel Persons with clinical conditions that place them at high-risk for developing TB disease (e.g., diabetes) Children less than 4 years of age, or children and adolescents exposed to adults in high-risk categories  Persons with no known risk factors for TB may be considered for treatment of LTBI if their reaction to the tuberculin test is at least 15 mm of induration or they have a positive result using a TB blood test.
 Targeted skin testing programs should only be conducted among high-risk groups.
 All testing activities should be accompanied by a plan for follow-up care for persons with TB infection or disease.
 Additional Information  CDC.
 Development of new vaccines for tuberculosis: recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (ACET).
 MMWR 1998; 47 (No.
 RR-13).
 CDC.
 The role of BCG vaccine in the prevention and control of tuberculosis in the United States: a joint statement by ACET and the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
 MMWR 1996; 45 (No.
 RR-4).
 CDC.
 Interferon-Gamma Release Assays (IGRAs) – Blood Tests for TB Infection.
 MMWR 2010; 59 (No.RR-5).
 Page last reviewed: May 4, 2016 Content source: 	Division of Tuberculosis Elimination         homeTuberculosis  Basic TB Factsplus icon  How TB Spreads Latent TB Infection and TB Disease Signs &amp; Symptoms TB Risk Factors Exposure to TB TB Prevention Vaccines TB &amp; HIV Coinfection TB and Diabetes TB Terms   Personal Storiesplus icon  Kristi Laura Kelcie Tenzin Mildred Shaka Kelly Kim Emily Jerry Kate Nauman Nicole Thomas Natalie Esteban and Danielle Deo Kenni Rosalie and Faith Rick and Francene Santos Mabruka Liliana Martha Tri Sarah   Testing &amp; Diagnosisplus icon  Who Should be Tested Testing for TB Infection Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel Testing During Pregnancy Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease   Treatmentplus icon  Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI) Treatment for TB Disease Adverse Events TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV TB Treatment and Pregnancy TB Treatment for Children   Drug-Resistant TB Researchplus icon  TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon  Research Projects Publications   TB Trials Consortiumplus icon  Study Descriptions Background   Behavioral &amp; Social Science Research   Health Care Settingsplus icon  TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon  Frequently Asked Questions     TB in Specific Populationsplus icon  Health Disparities Asian Persons Black or African American Persons Hispanic or Latino Persons Children Pregnancy Correctional Facilities People Experiencing Homelessness International Travelers   Laboratory Informationplus icon  Drug Susceptibility Testing False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP) Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon  Executive Summary Introduction Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service Research Needs General Recommendations of the Expert Panel Communication Plan for the Report Recommendations References Panel Members and CDC Participants Appendix 1 Appendix 2 Appendix 3   The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon  General Considerations General Recommendations of the Expert Panel Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE     Data &amp; Statisticsplus icon  TB Incidence in the United States Reported TB in the US, 2019 Surveillance Report Trends in Tuberculosis 2019 Tuberculosis in the United States, 2019 (Slide Set) Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets 2018 State and City Report Archived State and City Reports   Professional Resources &amp; Toolsplus icon  Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon  Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know   Resources for TB Programsplus icon  Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) Program Evaluation   TB Centers of Excellence    Publications &amp; Productsplus icon  Patient and Public Materials Fact Sheetsplus icon  General Data &amp; Statistics Drug-Resistant TB Infection Control &amp; Prevention TB in Specific Populations Treatment Testing &amp; Diagnosis Vaccines &amp; Immunizations   Guidelinesplus icon  Control &amp; Elimination Drug-Resistant TB Infection Control &amp; Prevention Laboratory &amp; Genotyping TB &amp; HIV TB in Specific Populations Testing &amp; Diagnosis Treatment Vaccines &amp; Immunizations Archived TB Guidelines   Guides &amp; Toolkitsplus icon  Aggregate Reports CDC TB Surveillance Training Core Curriculum Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation Ethnographic Guides False-Positive Investigation Toolkit Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB Guide to Application of Genotyping LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT) Self-Study Modules TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course TB eDOT Toolkit Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process   Newslettersplus icon  TB Notes, No.
 2, 2020 TB Notes, No.
 1, 2020 TB Notes, No.
 4, 2019 TB Notes, No.
 3, 2019 TB Notes, No.
 2, 2019 TB Notes, No.
 1, 2019 TB Notes, No.
 6, 2018  TB Notes, No.
 5, 2018 TB Notes, No.
 4, 2018 TB Notes, No.
 3, 2018 TB Notes, No.
 2, 2018 TB Notes, No.
 1, 2018 TB Notes, No.
 5, 2017 TB Notes, No.
 4, 2017 TB Notes, No.
 3, 2017 TB Notes, No.
 2, 2017 TB Notes, No.
 1, 2017 TB Notes, No.
 5, 2016 TB Notes, No.
 4, 2016 TB Notes, No.
 3, 2016 TB Notes, No.
 2, 2016 TB Notes, No.
 1, 2016   Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon  Questions and Answers Patient Education Series Tuberculosis – Get the Facts Tuberculosis – The Connection between TB and HIV 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure   Postersplus icon  Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart World TB Day Think TB Stop TB   Reports &amp; Articlesplus icon  DTBE Authored Journal Articles Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports   Slide Setsplus icon  Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.​–Born Persons in the United States, 1993–2016 Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon  Facilitator Guide   Introduction to TB Genotyping Core Curriculum Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017 Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection   Electronic Tools &amp; Resources Web-Based Courses &amp; Webinarsplus icon  TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon  TB 101   Interactive Core Curriculum   Content Syndication Infographicsplus icon  Social Media Graphics Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions     Events World TB Dayplus icon  Resources U.S. TB Championsplus icon  2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions 2016 Supporting TB Control 2016 Building Partnerships 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment 2016 Focusing on Prevention 2016 Maximizing Resources   Activities History   Linksplus icon  State TB Control Offices   About Usplus icon  Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon  DTBE Strategic Plan National TB Program Objectives   Organization Chart Advisory Groupsplus icon  Federal TB Task Force         email_03Subscribe to get TB updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:  Email Address  What's this?
 Submit                 HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
