Email.
 Open Search...             Search KFF.org                 Twitter               Facebook               Instagram               Email            Election 2020 Open Enrollment U.S. Coronavirus Cases (11/5): 9.607 million         					Health Costs				     								Search							    								Graphics &amp; Interactives							    								Polls							      HomeHealth CostsSummary of Coverage Provisions in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act      Summary of Coverage Provisions in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act   Published: Jul 17, 2012   Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print    On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed comprehensive health reform, the Affordable Care Act (ACA), into law.
 The following summary explains key health coverage provisions of the law including:  The Medicaid expansion to 138% of the federal poverty level ($15,415 for an individual and $31,809 for a family of four in 2012) for individuals under age 65; The creation of health insurance exchanges through which individuals who do not have access to public coverage or affordable employer coverage will be able to purchase insurance with premium and cost-sharing credits available to some people to make coverage more affordable; New regulations on all health plans that will prevent health insurers from denying coverage to people for any reason,including health status,and from charging higher premiums based on health status and gender; The requirement that most individuals have health insurance beginning in 2014; and The penalties to employers that do not offer affordable coverage to their employees, with exceptions for small employers.
 Expansion of Public Programs The ACA provides for the expansion of Medicaid to individuals with incomes up to 138% of the federal poverty level based on modified adjusted gross income.
 This expansion creates a new minimum Medicaid eligibility level for adults and eliminates a limitation of the program that prohibits most adults without dependent children from enrolling in the program (though as under current law, undocumented immigrants are not eligible for Medicaid).
 Eligibility for Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for children with family incomes above 138% of the poverty level will continue at their current eligibility levels until 2019.
 The federal government will provide 100% federal funding for the costs of those who become newly eligible for Medicaid for years 2014 through 2016, 95% federal funding for 2017, 94% federal funding for 2018, 93% federal funding for 2019, and 90% federal funding for 2020 and subsequent years.States that have already expanded adult eligibility to 100% of the federal poverty level will receive a phased-in increase in the FMAP for non-pregnant childless adults.
 The recent Supreme Court ruling on the ACA limits the ability of the Department of Health and Human Services to enforce the Medicaid expansion.
 This change in enforcement authority may affect state decisions to implement the expansion.
 American Health Benefit Exchanges States will create the American Health Benefits Exchanges where individuals can purchase insurance and separate exchanges for small employers to purchase insurance.
 These new marketplaces will provide consumers within formation to enable them to choose among plans.
 Premium and cost-sharing subsidies will be available to make coverage more affordable.
 Access to Exchanges will be limited to U.S. citizens and legal immigrants.
 Small businesses with up to 100 employees can also purchase coverage through the Exchange.
 Premium subsidies will be provided to families without access to other coverage and with incomes 100-400% of the poverty level ($23,050 to $92,200 for a family of four in 2012) to help them purchase insurance through the Exchanges.These subsidies will be offered on a sliding scale basis and will limit the cost of the premium to between 2% of income for those up to 133% of the poverty level and 9.5 % of income for those between 300-400% of the poverty level.
 Cost-sharing subsidies will also be available to people with incomes between 100-250% of the poverty level to limit out-of-pocket spending.
 Changes to Private Insurance New insurance market regulations will prevent health insurers from denying coverage to people for any reason, including their health status,and from charging people more based on their health status and gender.These new rules will also require that health plans provide comprehensive coverage that includes at least a minimum set of services and caps annual out-of-pocket spending.
 Young adults will be allowed to remain on their parent’s health insurance up to age 26.
 Health insurers will be prohibited from imposing lifetime limits on coverage and will be prohibited from rescinding coverage, except in cases of fraud.
 New health plans will be required to cover certain preventive services with no cost-sharing.
 Increases in health plan premiums will be subject to review.
 Insurers will be required to spend at least 80% of premiums on medical costs or pay rebates back to consumers.
 Individual Mandate All individuals will be required to have health insurance, with some exceptions, beginning in 2014.Those who do not have coverage will be required to pay a yearly financial penalty of the greater of $695 per person (up to a maximum of $2,085 per family), or 2.5% of household income, which will be phased-in from 2014-2016.
 Exceptions will be given for financial hardship and religious objections; and to American Indians; people who have been uninsured for less than three months; those for whom the lowest cost health plan exceeds 8% of income; and if the individual has income below the tax filing threshold ($9,500 for an individual in 2011).
 Employer Requirements There is no employer mandate but employers with more than 50 employees will be assessed a fee of $2,000 per full-time employee(in excess of 30 employees) if they do not offer coverage and if they have at least one employee who receives a premium credit through an Exchange.Employers with 50 or more employees that offer coverage but have at least one employee who receives a premium credit through an Exchange are required to pay the lesser of $3,000 for each employee who receives a premium credit or $2,000 for each full-time employee(in excess of 30 employees).
 Large employers that offer coverage will be required to automatically enroll employees into the employer’s lowest cost premium plan if the employee does not sign up for employer coverage or does not opt out of coverage.
 Topics  Health Costs Health Reform Medicaid Private Insurance Uninsured    Tags  Affordable Care Act Access to Care Coverage Employer Health Individual Market Subsidies                															DOWNLOAD									     					ISSUE BRIEF				       															Also of Interest									     						2020 Employer Health Benefits Survey					    						The Effects of Medicaid Expansion under the ACA: Updated Findings from a Literature Review					    						The Uninsured and the ACA: A Primer – Key Facts about Health Insurance and the Uninsured amidst Changes to the Affordable Care Act					    						Texas Residents’ Views on State and National Health Policy Priorities					            					Get The Latest On Health Policy				  					Sign Up For Email Alerts				     							Sign Up						      				Follow KFF			    Twitter     Facebook     Instagram     Email Alerts     Feeds     Topics  Coronavirus (COVID-19) Global Health Policy Health Costs Health Reform HIV/AIDS Medicaid Medicare Private Insurance Racial Equity and Health Policy Uninsured Women’s Health Policy   Sections  Polling Perspectives State Health Facts Graphics &amp; Interactives Charts &amp; Slides Kaiser Health News Social Impact Media Peterson-KFF Health System Tracker   Newsroom  News Releases Events Subscribe to Emails Cite Us/Reprint Media Contacts   About Us  President’s Message Our Programs Support Our Work Key Staff Media Fellowships Barbara Jordan Conference Center Contact Us Employment Opportunities Privacy Policy         				© 2020 Kaiser Family Foundation			  				Powered by WordPress.com VIP            							Citations and Reprints						    							Privacy Policy						        		The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation Headquarters: 185 Berry St., Suite 2000, San Francisco, CA 94107 | Phone 650-854-9400		 		Washington Offices and Barbara Jordan Conference Center: 1330 G Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005 | Phone 202-347-5270	 www.kff.org | Email Alerts: kff.org/email | facebook.com/KaiserFamilyFoundation | twitter.com/kff  Filling the need for trusted information on national health issues, the Kaiser Family Foundation is a nonprofit organization based in San Francisco, California.
