Sunday Sport  From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia    Jump to navigation Jump to search For the RTÉ Radio 1 programme, see Weekend Sport.
 Sunday SportTypeSunday newspaperFormatTabloidOwner(s)David SullivanPublisherSunday Sport (2011) Ltd[1] (original publisher Sport Newspapers)EditorNick AppleyardFounded1986Political alignmentNone (yellow journalism)HeadquartersCity View House 5 Union Street, Ardwick, Manchester, M12 4JD, United KingdomWebsitehttp://www.sundaysportonline.co.uk/ Sunday Sport is a British tabloid newspaper, published by Sport Newspapers, which was originally established in 1986.
 Defenders of the publication have said the Sport was never intended to be taken seriously: it has featured such stories as a London Bus being discovered at the Antarctic, a World War II Bomber on the Moon, or a statue of Elvis Presley on Mars.
 [2] Its content also includes a high quotient of softcore female nudity and advertising for sexual services.
 [3]  Contents  1 History 2 Ed Miliband story 3 See also 4 References 5 External links   History[edit] The Sunday Sport was founded in 1986, the first issue for sale was dated 14 September 1986.
 [4] Its original publisher was David Sullivan.
 Advertising in the Sunday Sport was once the responsibility of Sullivan's protegee Karren Brady (now the life peer Baroness Brady), who later became managing director of Birmingham City Football Club and vice chairman of West Ham United.
 Sullivan sold the paper to Sport Newspapers, but had to give them a £1.68m bailout in 2009.
 [5] The last editor was Nick Appleyard, appointed in September 2007.
 His predecessors included Dominic Mohan, Michael Gabbert and Paul Carter.
 Its sister daily title, Daily Sport, began publication in 1991, but ceased publication and entered administration on 1 April 2011.
 [2][6] One of the creditors was Richard Desmond, who had refused to print the title because of outstanding debts.
 [7] However, it returned on 8 May, after being reacquired by its original publisher David Sullivan for £50,000.
 [7] The paper appears three times a week as Midweek Sport (Wednesdays), Weekend Sport (Fridays) and Sunday Sport, through his company Sunday Sport (2011) Limited.
 [1] It has always possessed a salacious edge, copying The Sun's Page 3 feature, but with female nudity on more pages.
 Following the departure of editor in chief Tony Livesey in August 2006, the paper moved towards increasing its show business content.
 Ed Miliband story[edit] In October 2013, shortly after the Daily Mail had run a controversial story about the Marxist academic Ralph Miliband (father of then Labour leader Ed Miliband) allegedly hating Britain, the Sunday Sport ran a story about Ralph Miliband allegedly killing a kitten in 1944.
 One night he was late coming home so I went out to look for him.
 It was a freezing, foggy night but I saw him walking down the road, bold as brass.
 I shouted 'Come here Winston!'
 But at that moment, a young naval officer came pedalling down the road on his bike, singing in a language I now know to be Belgian.
 He was obviously steaming drunk.
 He barrelled into Winston squashing him flat, then carried on as if nothing had happened.
 I am convinced that man was Ralph Miliband.
 Only a Belgian – a Belgian Communist – could have killed a kitten in cold blood.
 [8] Ed Miliband later read from the article and "recorded a tongue in cheek video message" for a Spectator Parliamentarian of the Year award in November that year, pledging to "battle" the "scurrilous story".
 [9] Barely stifling his laughter, Ed Miliband said "Now my friends, that is the kind of stuff I have to deal with, sorry I can't be with you".
 "David Sullivan could launch Friday edition of Daily Sport guardian.co.uk".
 Guardian.
 UK.
 "A headline you can believe: The 'Sport' closes".
 The Indepoendent.
 Retrieved 14 April 2018.
 ^ Jackson, Jasper (21 September 2016).
 "Sexually explicit Sunday Sport ads banned despite 'censorship' claim".
 The Guardian.
 Retrieved 14 April 2018.
 ^ Di Hand; Steve Middleditch (2014).
 Design for Media: A Handbook for Students and Professionals in Journalism, PR, and Advertising.
 Routledge.
 p. 8.
 ISBN 978-1-317-86402-8.
 ^ Sunday Sport British Newspapers Online.
 Retrieved 11 June 2013.
 ^ McNally, Paul (1 April 2011).
 "Daily Sport ceases publication and calls in administrators".
 Press Gazette.
 Archived from the original on 5 June 2011.
 Retrieved 10 June 2011.
 ^ a b Sweney, Mark (4 June 2011).
 "David Sullivan paid just £50,000 for Sunday Sport".
 The Guardian.
 Retrieved 10 June 2011.
 ^ Axegrinder (9 October 2013).
 "Sunday Sport accuses Ralph Miliband of killing a kitten – Press Gazette".
 Press Gazette.
 ^ "Ed Miliband turns to comedy over 'kitten killer dad' slur".
 ITV News.
 7 November 2013.
 ^ Axegrinder (7 November 2013).
 "Ed Miliband responds to kitten killing slur – Press Gazette".
 Press Gazette.
 External links[edit] Official website (Mobile) You couldn't make it up: 'Sport' editor quits for BBC, The Independent, 17 Aug 2006 vteMedia in the United KingdomUK national newspapers, magazines, and other periodicalsNewspapers(History)Broadsheet Financial Times The Daily Telegraph The Sunday Telegraph The Sunday Times Compact i The Times The Guardian The Observer Middle-market Daily Express Daily Mail The Mail on Sunday Tabloid Daily Mirror Sunday Mirror Morning Star The Sunday People Daily Star Daily Star Sunday The Sun Sunday Sport Magazines andother periodicals List of magazines by circulation Radio in the UKNationalstationsBBC Analogue / digital Radio 1 Radio 2 Radio 3 Radio 4 5 Live Digital only 1Xtra 4 Extra 5 Live Sports Extra 6 Music Asian Network World Service BBC National DAB (multiplex) Independent/ commercial Analogue / digital Absolute Radio Classic FM Capital Heart Kiss Smooth Radio Talksport Digital only Absolute 80s Absolute 90s BFBS Radio Capital Xtra Country Hits Radio Digital One (multiplex) Greatest Hits Radio Heart 70s Heart 80s Heart 90s Heart Dance heat Hits Radio Jazz FM Kerrang!
 Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply.
 By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
 Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
