We don't want to access s until the very end.
 Fleck to patients at the University of Iowa Children\u2019s Hospital on Nov.
 16.
 ","author":"Aaron Lavinsky \u2022 aaron.lavinsky@startribune.com","credit":null,"altText":"Gophers holder Casey O\u2019Brien (14) waved alongside coach P.J.
 Fleck to patients at the University of Iowa Children\u2019s Hospital on Nov.
 The sophomore holder has captured college football’s attention this season, sharing his story first at the Big Ten Media Days Kickoff Luncheon speech and again on program’s like ESPN’s “College GameDay.” Doctors diagnosed the St. Paul native with osteosarcoma, a rare bone cancer, at age 13.
 He’s endured everything from a full left knee replacement to multiple lung surgeries and chemotherapy treatments, some as recently as his freshman year with the Gophers.
 But he was close to two years cancer-free when he shared his health update Monday on Twitter.
 July 2019  He beat cancer, now O'Brien aims to play for Gophers Casey O'Brien, free of the cancer, never thought of giving up on Gophers football.
 "Whether I'm playing or just being around the game, it's something that's always been in my life," he said.
 “Earlier today, I had my three-month scans, and the doctors found a small spot in one of my lungs.
 They are not sure what it is, but they want to remove it this week so they can test it,” O’Brien wrote.
 “I appreciate everyone’s support and prayers, and I am looking forward to retuning to the field soon.” O’Brien hashtagged his tweet “#5x”, in reference to how he plans to beat the disease once more.
 The walk-on made his college debut at Rutgers on Oct. 19, holding all three of the Gophers’ fourth-quarter extra points in the blowout victory.
 The Gophers play Wisconsin on Saturday in the team’s biggest game in decades, with a rivalry trophy and trip to the Big Ten Championship Game on the line.
 “I met with Casey earlier today, and he shared the news with me, as he does after each scan,” coach P.J.
 Fleck said in a statement.
 “Casey is the strongest young man I have ever met, and I know he will recover from this as well.
 He has an entire team, community, state and all of college football supporting him and rowing the boat with him.” ESPN analyst Kirk Herbstreit tweeted: “Thoughts and prayers Case.
 Your story and attitude are an inspiration for many.
 Can’t wait to see ya back on the field.”    Megan Ryan is a sports reporter at the Star Tribune covering colleges.
 16 Marshall outmuscle Massachusetts 51-10  Grant Wells threw three touchdown passes, Brenden Knox ran for two scores and No.
 16 Marshall pummeled Massachusetts 51-10 on Saturday.
 20 USC rallies from 13 down late, stuns ASU 28-27  In the final three minutes of a game that began with Southern California's earliest kickoff in decades, the Trojans finally did a few things worth getting up early to see.
 Now Gophers want bigger prize by beating Badgers              Nov. 26, 2019              Scoggins: How one mop bucket best symbolizes U football right now              Nov. 26, 2019              Paging Brock Lesnar ... or maybe Bud Grant.
 Who'll be 'GameDay's' celebrity picker?
