2 ˜e Missouri Youth Services Institute
 (MYSI) 
 Approach for 
 Positive Juvenile Justice System Outcomes
e Missouri Youth Services Institute (MYSI) employs a therapeutic group treatment 
approach, which utilizes components of positive youth development and cognitive behavioral 

therapy to help youth make positive and long-lasting changese therapeutic components 

are delivered to youth in a fully integrated treatment team approach where social-emotional 

competencies are learned and practiced. 
e therapeutic process utilized by MYSI addresses two issues directly related to youth 
in juvenile justice systems. First is the cognitive therapies that are needed to address the 

adolescent™s faulty beliefs and thinking errors which lead to impulsive and harmful choices. 

By examining their beliefs in a safe and supportive environment young people learn how their 

behavior impacts otherough problem solving skills and rctive thinking, they learn to 

make healthier choices and relationship decisions.
e second issue relates to the cycle of abuse and trauma commonly referred to the ﬁtrauma 
outcome processﬂ. Once again in a safe and supportive environment as the stand group 

discuss these issues they od common ground and understanding of how they and 

others were impacted by these experiene focus is on the strengths developed to survive 

and recognize triggers, contain reactions and resolve their traumatic experiences to the 

best of their abilitys process becomes empowering by developing coping skills and an 

improvement in their ability to trust and form healthier relationships.
e MYSI approach is based on the award-winning Missouri Approach where youth stay 
together in small groups with the same stand are treated in a humane and nurturing 

environmene MYSI Approach establishes an organizational structure with clear lines of 

authority that empower and enhance accountability throughout the organizationŠfrom the 

director to the direct care staoective implementation of the prograe therapeutic 

group approach is designed to keep youth safe and secure during their rehabilitative process 

and to reduce the number of youth that recidivate.
T˜˚ MYSI A˛˛˝˙ˆˇ˜
Cover Photo: 
Mark D. Steward, Founder and Director of Missouri Youth Services Institute, speaks with a 

resident at a youth facility
3 MYSI Beliefs and
PHILOSOPHY
1.    ˘e most eective way for treatment to occur is 
 through the group process.
 e positive peer group process allows 
youth to critically examine their past, present and future while they are 

in a safe, caring environment, with competency-based learning, led by 

well-trained sta.
2.    Each person is special and unique. Treatment needs to be 

individualized. 
Youth spend time evaluating their respective qualities.  
Activities are structured in order to enhance this evaluation both by self 

and the group members.  As a result, youth see their own value as well as 

the value of others.
3.    Safety and structure are the foundations for development. 
 Youth need to know that staares enough about them to expect them to 

succeed. Staeinforce this belief through high and positive expectations 

for youth and the willingness to provide safety and enforce structure. 
4.    Icult to change. 
People tend to be naturally resistant to 
change and may even resist when the alternatives seem more positive 

and healthy.  Youth must be guided to try new behaviors, succeed, 

and possibly fail before actual change occurs.  Sigant practice 

and support must occur before integration of new behaviors can be 

accomplished.
5.    All people desire to do well and succeed. 
Even the most 
resistant youth hunger for approval and acceptance. In particular, the youth in many juvenile programs have 

spent a number of years camoaging this desire.  Programs and services are structured in a manner that taps 

into this universal need.
6. All people have needs.
 Everyone has fears, insecurities and basic needs including safety, attention and 
belonging.  People need others to help meet these needs.  Programs and services are expected to meet these 

needs and assist youth in learning to meet these needs on their owerapeutic groups are designed to 

illustrate the need for others by providing opportunities for youth to help others and to be helped by them.
7. Emotions are not to be judged. 
Feelings are not right or wrongen, youth coming into a program 
have poor communication skills and are unable to distinguish between their thoughts and emotioney 

oen feel very little control over their behavior, and view feelings as controlling factors in their lives.  Programs 

and services teach youth that emotions are a very important part of them but not the controlling agent.
A ﬁline of bodyﬂ depicting a youth™s injuries, 
wounds and trauma4 8. People are a combination 
of their past and present. 
Youth have learned through 

a wide variety of experiences 

before they enter the agency.  

en, their perceived 

negative behavior could have 

been a very natural response 

to their particular situation or 

family system.  Additionally, 

a youth™s reactions to a given 

situation are frequently 

based on perceptions from a much earlier stage of life and their experience at that time. Investigation of these 

perceptions may facilitate the change process.
9. All behavior has a purpose. 
Even the most delinquent behavior is goal directed.  It is either a conscious or 
unconscious (aware or unaware) attempt to get needs met.  Our treatment approach is designed to help youth 

meet those needs by helping them investigate and understand their behavior and iects, and to explore 

healthier alternatives.
10. People need a sense of self-worth.
 Improved self-esteem is an important aspect of the therapeutic 
process for youth.  To maximize the opportunity for youth to be successful in our programs, as well as on the 

streets, we must take every opportunity to enhance the youth™s self-esteem.
11. Eective juvenile justice must be a balanced approach. 
 ective juvenile justice systems should 
balance public safety, prevention and treatment.  Treatment should be a seamless continuum of care from 

time of commitment to discharge in which youths™ needs are met in a safe, structured environment with well-

trained, caring staho help 

them identify and address their 

issues. 
12. Human dignity is a basic 

value.
  Human dignity goes 
beyond the basics of honor or 

respect to the essence of being 

human.  It is reacting to the 

human dimension of every 

person.  Human dignity is 

accorded to a person in as much 

as he or she is a person.
˘e MYSI approach is based on the belief that in order for youth to truly achieve 
long-lasting change and avoid re-oending, they must go through a process of self-

exploration and a change process that addresses their history and family dynamics, 

and how those elements havuenced their present situation.  
˜e following beliefs serve as a basis for treatment 
programming within the MYSI Approach:
D˜˚˛˜˝˜˙ˆ ˇ U˛ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˙ˆ B˙˘D˜˚˛˜A ﬁgenogramﬂ depicting the history of an individual™s biological and familial history
5 1. Small, Non-Institutional 
Facilities Close to Home
 Ł Groups of 10-12 youth stay together 

with the same staeam at the same 

facility throughout the treatment 

process.
 e system may be divided by 

regions, with small, residential 

programs anerent levels of care.
 e regions should try to ensure 

youth are no more than two hours 

from home.
 Ł Facilities are designed to resemble 

home with comfortable ﬁdayrooms,ﬂ 

shared, open sleeping dorms 

and walls adorned with artwork, 

motivational slogans and other 

appropriate items.  
2. Integrated Treatment: 

Treating the Whole Person
 Ł Youth participate in a highly structured daily schedule focused on building healthy peer-to-peer and adult-to-youth 

relationships.
 Ł Youth explore and develop self-awareness, insight, skills and leadership as they work on resolving core issues and 

attaining behavioral change. 
 Ł Predictable daily group meetings such as group circles and treatment activities keep youth involved in the group 

process.
 Ł Youth are provided with educational and recreational opportunities, and encouraged to develop leadership skills.
 e program supports regular engagement with family and the community.
3. Individual Care Within a Group Treatment Model
 Ł Small groups of 10-12 youth stay together at all times throughout the program (sleeping, eating, school, group 

meetings, chores, etc.)
 Ł Groups check in regularly and meet daily for formal group treatment.
 Ł Each youth has an individualized treatment team (group leader, service coordinator, one-on-one sta, teachers, etc.) 

that meets weekly to assess each youth™s progress through stages of development and readiness for release.
4. Safety through Supervision, Structure and Relationships
 Ł Staembers are educated, culturally diverse and committed to helping youth make positive and lasting changes.
 Ł Constant, active supervision of youth by staeyes-on, ears-on supervisionﬂ) provides a secure, safe 

environment.
 e highly structured program schedule, including group meetings, school and activities, fosters responsibility and 
 keeps youth engaged in the process.
 Ł Appropriate, caring relationships between stand youth encourage interpersonal accountability. 
of the MYSI Approach
FUNDAMENTALS
A Missouri style dormitory, which provides a homelike environment for 
 supporting a therapeutic group process6 5. Integrated Treatment and Education
 Ł Education is highly valued and supported 
within the treatment plan.
 Ł Youth attend most of their general education 
classes together with their respective groups 
on a daily basis, with exceptions for special 

education and GED, college and vocational 

education courses, which youth may attend 

individually or with other groups. 
 Ł Youth specialists or on-line staor each 

group provide support to teachers in the 

classroom and monitor the individual needs 

and progress of youth.
 Ł Teachers and other classroom stare 

members of each youth™s individual treatment 

team.
6. Families and Communities as 

Partners in Treatment
 Ł Families are engaged in treatment as soon as a 

youth enters into a program. 
 e program provides time for regular family visiting hours and communication each week.
 Ł Family therapy is provided to help families and youth work through issues.
 Ł Families are considered integral partners in planning for the youth™s release and transition home.
7. Support from Transition through Aercare
 Ł One case manager (service coordinator) is assigned to each youth at intake and monitors the youth™s progress from 

entry to transition home.
 Ł An individualized service plan (ISP) guides the youth™s progress during placement.
 Ł Transitional planning begins at entry, intenrior to release and continues through aercare.
 e period of aercare depends on each youth™s individual plan and needs. 
In the MYSI approach, the education experience is a crucial part of the overall 
treatment plan P˜˚˛˜˝˙ P˜˙˜e principles on which the MYSI approach are founded address the 

whole person as a strategy for long term success - rather than punitive 

measures alone, which only o˚er short term results if any at all.
7 Implementing the MYSI approach requires a sigant commitment throughout a system to helping 
youth make positive, long-lasting changes.  Facilitating small group interactions and processes, 

and promoting healthy, productive relationships and interactions are at the center of MYSI™s group 

therapeutic approach and must be administered by caring, well-trained staembers.  Additionally, 

facilities must be conducive to facilitating successful treatment programe following core 

components are critical for implementation:
Organizational Structure/Stag Requirements
 Ł  Operationalizing the MYSI approach requires a unit management organizational structure.  Unit management is 

assigning a spereatment team of stao work only with one group of youts structure enables the stao 

consistently work with the same group of youth and develop therapeutic relationships with their respective group.
Group ˘erapeutic Treatment
 ective group engagement and facilitation allows sta

to create an atmosphere where youth are encouraged and 

supported to explore the roots of their past and current 

behaviors, develop and test new behaviors, practice healthy 

interactions, build relationships, and use the here and now 

to heal old wounds.  Under this approach, it is imperative 

that starovides enough structure and boundaries to 

ensure a safe and trusting group environment to increase the 

likelihood of success on any given task.  
Facility Environment
 Ł  MYSI standards recommend a facility size to accommodate four groups with a total of 40-48 youts size 

is ideal, but in many cases, the facility size is sigantly increased because of the existing, available facilitye 

facility should have living units that resemble dorms versus individual cells.  Additionally, it should have a more 

open layout to better facilitate awareness supervision and group interaction.  Additional facility standards to 

facilitate the group treatment process and ensure youth safety are also necessary.
Implementation
COMPONENTS
A correctional dorm roomA Missouri style dorm roomA facilitated group session is a key part of providing rehabilitation
8 MYSI initiates the following process in response to a potential client™s inquiry regarding assistance.  
e purpose is to determine the interest, needs and resources of an organization and inform the 

potential design and implementation of the organizational change process.
Pre-Assessment Phase 
Our team meets with organizational leaders to identify 
interest, issues, strengths and challenges
 and discuss the 

basics of the MYSI approach.
Site Visit:
   We visit the site to evaluate the programs, assess the facilities and conduct interviews with stand youth.
Leadership Overview: 
  Our team presents an in-depth overview of the MYSI approach and facilitates discussion regarding implementation 

implications. 
Assessment of System
e MYSI team outlines key components and conducts ongoing assessments initially and throughout the 

transformation process with the following areas of focus:  organizational vision, mission and beliefs, leadership 

capacity responsiveness, accountability and communication, safety factors, organizational structure, stag 

patterns and dynamics, training, treatment program, physical plant, integration of services, data and community 

engagement.  
Implementation Plan
Based on the assessment process, we engage the organization™s leadership and designated statrategic planning 

process to outline the implementation of the new approach.  
e process includes addressing critical factors such as
Ł Identation of a start-up group
 Ł Developing policies to rct the new approach
 Ł Training leadership and sta
Ł Coaching at various levels of the organization to help 
move a system from theory to practice.  
˘e coaching component is an integral part 
of the change 
process and incorporates hands-on assistance, on-site 

observation and modeling to frontline sta, as well as 

ongoing consultation, feedback and recommendations to 

various levels of management.  
˜e MYSI
PROCESS
Dr. Pili Robinson, MYSI Director of Consulting Services, has made 
supporting youth his life™s work
9 Nearly four decades ago, Missouri made dramatic changes to its juvenile justice syste state moved from a 
correctional approach plagued with physical and emotional abuse, violence, suicides and escapes, to a rehabilitative, 

therapeutic group approach that produced positive outcomes for both the system and youth.  
e new program utilized a peer approach guided by trained stahat 
worked with groups of youth in smaller, regionally based facilities that 

treated youth closer to home and encouraged family involvement.  It 

emphasized rehabilitation, treatment and education to equip youth with 

skills and accountability to make internal, long-lasting change drastic 

reduction in escapes and violence combined with sigant improvements 

in education and recidivism had a dramatic and positive impact on both the 

system and the outcomes for youth.  

  
During the past four decades, Missouri has utilized this same basic approach 

with gradual improvements along the way.  Its evidence-based results are 

exceptional, unbiased and nonpartisan.  For years, Missouri outcomes show 

lower recidivism rates, higher educational achievements and safer facilities.
MYSI Director and founder Mark Steward was one of thst counselors for 
the pilot program in 1970 that helped set Missouri on the course for positive 

change.  He served as Director of the Division of Youth Services for 17 years, 

where he played an integral role in the development, implementation and 

improvement of the Missouri juvenile justice system, known nationally as 

e Missouri Approach.   He launched MYSI following his retirement in 2005 to assist jurisdictions across the nation 

interested in implementing a therapeutic group treatment approach.  He and his team of seasoned staembers 

have decades of experience in youth servicesŠand speally with the Missouri Approach.  
History of
and the Missouri Approach
MYSI
ﬁ For anyone honestly seeking to transform their juvenile justice system from a 

correctional model to a positive youth development model, there is no group better than 

MYSI to help e˜ect that change. MYSI sta˜ truly understood the dynamics of making 
the kind of huge cultural change in an entrenched system.
˚ey handled their technical assistance/training/coaching role with 
great skill and sensitivity. We would have come nowhere near as far 

as we did in our reform e˜orts without MYSI.ﬂ
- Vincent N. Schiraldi
 Ł  Senior research fellow, Harvard Kennedy school of government, program in criminal 
     justice policy and management. 
 Ł  NYC- Commissioner, New York City Department of Probation (2010-2015)
 Ł  DC - Director, Department of Youth Rehabilitation Services (2005-2009)
Mark D. Steward, Founder and Director of 
Missouri Youth Services Institute
10 About the
MISSOURI YOUTH
SERVICES INSTITUTE
 MYSI is a nonprot organization created 
to assist juvenile justice systems across the 

country with refororts.  Our team is 

uniquely positioned to help jurisdictions move 

from a traditional correctional model toward 

a rehabilitative, therapeutic approach with 

sigantly better outcomes.  
MYSI is the only juvenile justice consulting 
group in the country that provides in-

depth, customized services based on years 

of experience with the successful Missouri 

Approach, resulting in comprehensive and 

systemic changes to juvenile justice systems.  

Our dynamic team oers unmatched 

experience, knowledge and dedication to our 

clients.  We work with state, local and private entities to implement juvenile justice programs that produce positive, 

long-term results
(MYSI)
MYSI Team
Governor Bob Holden attends a multi-cultural event in St. Louis
ﬁOur youth re˛ect who we are and what our future will become. During my term as 

Governor I o˝en attended events sponsored by the Missouri Division of Youth Services. 

One such event was the multi-

cultural event in St. Louis, Mo. 

Another very special event 

occurred when Lori and I invited 

50 young Missourians and their 

sta˚ to the Governor™s Mansion to 

celebrate the holiday season. We 

believed then, as we do now, that 

our juvenile justice system will 

shape their future and ours.ﬂ
- Bob Holden
Governor of Missouri, 2001-2005
11 Evidence-Based Practice for
Outcomes
SUCCESSFUL 
7%Lower Recidivism Rates:of youth released from Missouri™s Division of Youth Services are either recommitted to the juvenile justice system or incarcerated in Missouri™s prisons three years a˜er dischargecompared to rates fromin other states.20-70%Higher Educational Achievements:of youth earn high school credits compared to95%50%nationallyof youth earn a GED or high school diploma compared to30%21%nationallyof youth improved in reading and math compared to 72% nationally 87%Safer Facilities for Youth & Sta˚:Youth are 4 ½ times less likely to be assaulted in Missouri™s system than in other systemsSta˜ members are 13 times less likely to be assaulted than in other systemsIsolation is used 200 times less in Missouri than in other systems(Source:  Research by Dick Mendel (2009) comparing Missouri Division of Youth Services with youth correctional programs participating in the Performance Based Standards Process.)Performance measures in the Missouri Division of Youth Services (Missouri Approach) 
clearly indicate the MYSI/Missouri approach works.
12 MYSI
MYSI
CLIENTS
COMMITMENT
          Cayman IslandsLouisianaNew MexicoSanta Clara County, CAWashington D.C.San Francisco County, CANew YorkVirginiaMYSI has assisted the following 
 jurisdictions in various capacities:
Ł  Louisiana

Ł  New Mexico

Ł  New York State and New York City

Ł  Washington, DC

Ł  San Francisco, CA

Ł  Santa Clara County, CA

Ł  Cayman Islands

Ł  Virginia
Additionally, through a grant from the 
 Annie E. Casey Foundation, MYSI has 

facilitated tours to Missouri™s Division of 

Youth Services facilities and provided written 

materials, publications and guidance to more 

than 25 states across the nation.
When an organization is committed to meaningful reform of its juvenile justice system, MYSI is here to helpŠ

every step of the way.  Our team provides comprehensive, customized consulting services to help take our 
clients through the entire change process from initial 

interest and assessment to planning and implementation 

to education and training to stansiderations to 

ongoing feedback and monitoring.  
MYSI consultants work side by side with facility stao 
train, coach and model the MYSI approacey work 

with facility administrators and mid-management to help 

establish oversight of the therapeutic group treatment 

process. Our stan™t just come in and give a training 

course and leave, but are on the ground daily, weekly and 

monthly to help implement the MYSI Approach.
But, our commitment goes deeper by integrating a 
unique coaching component into the change process.  
Our coaching service incorporates hands-on assistance, on-site observation and modeling to frontline sta, 

as well as ongoing consultation, feedback and recommendations to various levels of management.  Our team 

members help our clients work through issues one day at a time to help ensure success.  
MYSI trainer, Charles Galbreath, provides training to sta˜ in New York 
City™s Administration for Childrens™ Services.
13 JUVENILE JUSTICE REFORM: 
Making the ﬁMissouri Modelﬂ an American Model
e state of Missouri has created a juvenile justice system that has proved so successful over the last thirty 
years it™s known as the ﬁMissouri Miracle.ﬂ A number of practices combine to make Missouri™s system 
unique: It™s primarily made up of small facilities, generally designed for between ten and thirty youths, 
located at sites throughout the state that keep young people close to their own homese facilities 

don™t look like jails with traditional cells; there are only eight isolation rooms in the entire state, which are 
seldom used and only for emergency situationey feature a highly trained and educated staorking 
in teams with small groups of youths. Youths are treated with respect and dignity, and instead of more 

traditional correctional approaches, the system uses a rehabilitative and therapeutic model that works 
towards teaching the young people to make positive, lasting changes in their behaviore result has 
been some of the best outcomes in the nation: fewer than 8% of the youths in the Missouri system return 

again aer their release, and fewer than 8% go on to adult prison. One-third of the youths return to their 
communities with a high school diploma or GED, and another 50% successfully return to school.
Missouri™s results have been so positive that Mark Steward, the visionary former director of the Missouri 
Division of Youth Services, founded the Missouri Youth Services Institute (MYSI) to help other 
jurisdictions across the country do what Missouri has donee Missouri model is already being studied 
and replicated successfully in other cities and states including Washington, D.C.; San Jose, California; New 

Mexico; and Louisiana.
One of the most persistent roadblocks to juvenile justice reform across the country is resistance to change. 
Too many oals cling to the belief that citizens think existing punitive juvenile systems with facilities 
and cultures that resemble adult prisons are ﬁwhere these kids deserve 
to be.ﬂ But when you ask people whether they want young people who 
have gone through the juvenile justice system to come out better or 

worse at the end, the answer is clearey understand that abusive and 
punitive approaches oen lead youths to the adult criminal system. New 
York State™s abusive youth prisons have an 89 percent recidivism rate 

for boys and cost $210,000 a youth Œ a one-year equivalent of 4 years at 
Harvard Œ to produce an adult criminal.
Statistics already show Missouri is one of the few states achieving this 
goal. We need a system that returns young people to the community 
prepared to succeed and become productive adults to serve as a model 
for the entire nation. We don™t need systems that do further harm 

and return youths, most of them nonviolent oenders, back to their 
communities hopeless, angry, and unprepared to succeed in life.
By Marian Wright Edelman
President of the Children™s Defense Fund and its Action Council 
 Mark D. Steward, Director
Missouri Youth Services Institute

1906 Hayselton Drive
Je˚erson City, MO 65109
For additional information, please contact
www.mysiconsulting.org
Phone: 573.556.6155

Email: mysi@earthlink.net
 