2HealthEffectsAll of EPA's toxicology data requirements for warfarin and its sodiumsalt have been satisfied.  Because a great deal of information aboutwarfarin's effects on people is available, animal toxicity studies were notneeded or required.Warfarin's toxicology and mechanism of action, as well as themethods for treating warfarin overdose in humans, are well understood.  Asynthetic analogue of Vitamin K, warfarin is a member of the coumarinfamily of blood anticoagulant chemicals.  Its sodium salt has been used bydoctors for years in treating people with hypercoagulation problems. Because of its high degree of acute oral toxicity, technical warfarinhas been placed in Toxicity Category I (the most toxic category).  However,the dermal and inhalation toxicity of warfarin are not significant.  Warfarindoes not cause allergic or sensitization problems in people exposed to itorally or through injections.Warfarin has been established clearly as a human teratogen, as itcauses birth defects in the offspring of women receiving clinical doses of thecompound during any trimester of pregnancy.  (However, the amount ofwarfarin contained in the rodenticide bait products registered for use byhomeowners is very low.  A single ingestion of warfarin-treated bait by anadult female would not be likely to cause teratogenic effects.)RoutesOf ExposureThrough the Diet  Historically, none of warfarin's rodenticide uses were considered foodor feed uses, so residue chemistry data were not required and tolerances(legal residue limits) or exemptions from the requirement of a tolerancewere not established.  Similarly, no international Codex Maximum ResidueLevels were set.More recently, EPA has decided that the use of warfarin trackingpowder formulations in food and feed handling establishments has thepotential to contaminate food and feed.   Therefore, warfarin trackingpowder products will have to bear new label language that limits theplacement of tracking powder to inaccessible areas within suchestablishments.  If this new label language is not adopted, residue chemistrydata will be required and warfarin tolerances may have to be established.During ApplicationWarfarin's use patterns do not trigger data requirements for applicatoror reentry exposure studies. 3IncidentsPoison control centers report thousands of incidents or suspectedincidents of human exposure to anticoagulant rodenticides each year. However, accidental ingestion of warfarin seldom results in life-threateningor disabling symptoms.  Pet exposure incidents also are reported (mostinvolving dogs), and deaths occur in some of these animal exposureincidents.  These human and pet poisoning incidents point to the need for use oftamper-resistant bait stations when warfarin baits are applied in areasaccessible to children and nontarget animals, as required by current productlabeling.EnvironmentalHazardsAll the previously required studies needed to assess the environmentalimpact of warfarin and its sodium salt have been submitted to EPA andfound acceptable, except two fish toxicity studies and one invertebratetoxicity study using the sodium salt.  However, while these studies are beingrequired, warfarin's sodium salt is eligible for reregistration, since its use inand around buildings is expected to result in little exposure to fish andaquatic invertebrates.   Environmental Fate The environmental fate data requirements for warfarin and its sodiumsalt were waived.  Based on the use patterns and label recommendations ofwarfarin rodenticide products, significant residues of concern are notexpected to be introduced into the environment.    Ecological EffectsInformation available to EPA on the acute avian toxicity of warfarinindicates that the pesticide is practically nontoxic to game birds.  In subacutestudies, warfarin is moderately toxic to practically nontoxic to upland gamebirds and waterfowl.  Since use of warfarin and its sodium salt according tolabel directions and restrictions would not result in significant exposure ofwild avian species, no additional avian testing is required.Certain questions about the toxicity of warfarin to fish remain. However, EPA is not requiring a repeat of the aquatic toxicity studiesalready available because of warfarin's nonaquatic use pattern, itsinsolubility, and long field experience showing no potential hazards toaquatic organisms.  Studies are being required to assess the toxicity of the sodium salt ofwarfarin to fish, since the sodium salt is more soluble in water thanwarfarin.  However, the sodium salt is eligible for reregistration even  4while these studies are being developed, since significant exposure to fish isnot expected to occur from currently registered uses.The use of warfarin as a hand-placed bait limits the potential for anysecondary exposure of nontarget animals.  However, because of its highdegree of mammalian toxicity and its use patterns, warfarin could adverselyaffect endangered or threatened species.  The need for further requirementsto protect endangered species will be explored in a forthcoming, formalconsultation between EPA and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.Additional DataRequiredThe generic data base for warfarin has been reviewed and found to besubstantially complete.  Certain product chemistry studies must be replaced. Three acute toxicity tests on fish and aquatic invertebrates must be submittedto complete a risk assessment for the sodium salt.  Product LabelingChanges RequiredThe labels of end-use products containing warfarin and its sodium saltmust bear the following types of use directions and precautions.  Please seethe RED itself for the exact language of this and other required labeling:* The Restricted Use Pesticide classification still applies to, and mustappear on, tracking powder products;* A statement regarding teratogenicity, warning of warfarin's potentialto cause birth defects, must be added to tracking powder products andconcentrates used to prepare dry baits; * To prevent contamination of food and feed, tracking powder products intended for use in food/feed handling establishments must limitplacement of powder to concealed, inaccessible places.* To protect children and nontarget animals, tracking powder productsmust bear a strong precautionary statement and new restrictions limitingplacement of powder to locations not accessible to children, pets, domesticanimals or nontarget wildlife;* To protect children and nontarget animals, bait products mustrequire use of tamper-resistant bait stations.RegulatoryConclusion* All registered rodenticides containing warfarin or its sodium salt canbe used without causing unreasonable adverse effects in people or theenvironment.  Therefore, all pesticide products containing warfarin or itssodium salt as the sole active ingredient are eligible for reregistration.  * EPA is requiring product chemistry data on warfarin to replaceunacceptable studies, as well as fish and aquatic invertebrate data on thesodium salt, to complete a risk assessment.  Due to its limited use  5pattern, however, the sodium salt is eligible for reregistration while thesestudies are being developed.* Pesticide tracking powder uses in food and feed handlingestablishments are now considered to be food uses.  Therefore, to beeligible for reregistration, warfarin products must bear new label languagelimiting placement of tracking powder to inaccessible areas within suchestablishments. * An endangered species consultation is being initiated to determinewhether any special protective measures are needed.* EPA will reregister individual products containing warfarin or itssodium salt once the appropriate generic data, product specific data andrevised product labeling are submitted to and accepted by the Agency.For MoreInformationEPA is requesting public comments on the Reregistration EligibilityDocument for warfarin and its sodium salt during a 60-day time period, asannounced in a Notice of Availability published in the Federal Register.  Toobtain a copy of the RED or to submit written comments, please contact thePublic Response and Program Resources Branch, Field Operations Division(7506C), Office of Pesticide Programs, U.S. EPA, Washington, D.C.20460, telephone 703-557-4436, or Fax 703-557-1884.  Please note thatafter the comment period closes, the RED will be available from NTIS, atthe address and telephone number below.To obtain a copy of the August 1981 Registration Standard forwarfarin and its sodium salt, please contact the National TechnicalInformation Service (NTIS), 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA.22161, telephone 703-487-4650.  Request document #PB82-140716.For more information about warfarin and its sodium salt, or aboutEPA's pesticide reregistration program, please contact the Special Reviewand Reregistration Division (7508W), Office of Pesticide Programs, U.S.EPA, Washington, D.C. 20460, telephone 703-808-8000, or Fax 703-       308-8005.For information about the health effects of pesticides, or for assistancein recognizing and managing pesticide poisoning symptoms, please contactthe National Pesticides Telecommunications Network (NPTN).  Call toll-free 1-800-858-7378, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, or Fax yourinquiry to 806-743-3094.