Skip to main content           Sign in Sign up Contact                      about sudden cardiac arrest            What is Sudden Cardiac Arrest?
 Definition          SCA or Heart Attack?
 Latest Statistics          Myths          Chain of Survival          Bystander Intervention          Be Prepared          SCA Risk Factors          Heart Screening          CPR &amp; AED Training                CPR &amp; AED Training          AED Deployment          Treatment Options          Therapeutic Hypothermia          Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator          Wearable Cardioverter Defibrillator          Frequently Asked Questions          Resources          Call-Push-Shock          Toolkit          SCAF Research               2015 Study          2017 Study                 CPR &amp; AED Laws          AED Readiness               Anyone can save a life.
 Call-Push-Shock You can triple a victim’s chance of survival when you take these lifesaving actions.
 Read more               latest news            SCAF In the News          National News          SCAF News Releases          SCAF Newsletters                 our programs            Speakers' Bureau          People Saving People               The Nominees          The Heroes                 SCAF Network          Survivor Stories          Member Blogs          SCAF Programs          Call-Push-Shock          Video Contests          AED Readiness                 about us            Contact          Our Story          Testimonials          Position Statements          Partners          Donors          Oregon Affiliate                 how you can help            Volunteer          Donate          Why Donate?
 Corporate Sponsorship                 Donate          Sponsor          Shop          Log In          Register                                   Home   SCA News        AHA Releases 2015 Heart and Stroke Statistics               AHA Releases 2015 Heart and Stroke Statistics                     Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn           Posted on 12/30/2014           New report suggests the incidence of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest is 326,200.
 The average survival rate is 10.6% and survival with good neurologic function is 8.3%.
 Nearly one in three victims survives when the arrest is witnessed by a bystander.
 DALLAS, TX--For the first time in the 50 years that the American Heart Association/ American Stroke Association has released an annual snapshot of heart disease and stroke statistics in the United States, the new report adds a global view.
 Health data compiled from more than 190 countries show heart disease remains the No.
 1 global cause of death with 17.3 million deaths each year, according to “Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics — 2015 Update: A Report From the American Heart Association.” That number is expected to rise to more than 23.6 million by 2030, the report found.
 The annual report includes a chapter on Sudden Cardiac Arrest.
 According to the report, about 326,200 people experienced out-of-hospital cardiac arrests (OHCA) in the U.S. in 2011.
 (This compares with a reported incidence of 424,000 in the AHA's Heart and Stroke Statistics--2014 Update.)
 Of those treated by emergency medical services, 10.6 percent survived.
 Of the 19,300 bystander-witnessed cases in which individuals had a heart rhythm that could be treated effectively with a defibrillator (ventricular fibrillation-VF or ventricular tachycardia-VT), 31.4 percent survived.
 "The findings from the American Heart Association report suggest encouragement and caution," said Bobby V. Khan, MD, PhD, Director, Atlanta Vascular Research Foundation, who serves as Sudden Cardiac Arrest Foundation board chair.
 "First, even though cardiovascular disease continues to carry a high burden in the United States--one in three deaths is directly attributed to CVD--there has been a significant reduction in events over the last 50 years, a trend that has continued over the last decade.
 Early recognition and improvement of risk factors involved in CVD have contributed to this trend.
 "Furthermore, the AHA report findings indicate that earlier intervention in cases of sudden cardiac arrest increases the chances of survival and a better quality of life.
 We must continue to emphasize the importance of doing whatever is possible to prevent sudden cardiac arrest--and we must continue to educate the public about what to do if they witness a sudden cardiac emergency."
 What is Sudden Cardiac Arrest?
 Cardiac arrest is defined as the cessation of cardiac mechanical activity, as confirmed by the absence of signs of circulation.
 Cardiac arrest is traditionally categorized as being of cardiac or non-cardiac origin.
 An arrest is presumed to be of cardiac origin--unless it is known or likely to have been caused by trauma, submersion, drug overdose, asphyxia, severe blood loss, or any other non-cardiac cause--as best determined by rescuers.
 There are a number of ongoing challenges to understanding the epidemiology of cardiac arrest in the U.S.
 Despite being a leading cause of heart disease death, there are currently no nationwide standards for surveillance to monitor the incidence and outcomes of cardiac arrest.
 In addition, it is challenging to define what is “unexpected” or “sudden” death.
 Sudden cardiac death has been defined as unexpected death from a cardiac cause that occurs within one hour of symptom onset (witnessed) or within 24 hours of last being observed in normal health (unwitnessed).
 However, this definition is difficult to apply in the real-world setting.
 Despite these challenges, the latest statistics on OHCA provide valuable insights.
 Following are some highlights.
 Report Highlights Adults Incidence  The incidence of EMS-assessed OHCA in the U.S. is 326,200.
 Approximately 60% of OHCA are treated by EMS personnel.
 25% of EMS treated OHCA have no symptoms before the onset of arrest.
 Among EMS-treated OHCA, 23% have an initial rhythm of VF or VT.
 The median age for OHCA is 66 years.
 Cardiac arrest is witnessed by a bystander in 38.7% of cases and by an EMS provider by 10.9 percent of cases.
 It is unwitnessed in 50.4% of cases.
 The majority of OHCA cases occur at a home or residence (69.5%).
 Risk factors  The incidence of OHCA per 10,000 adults is 10.1 among blacks, 6.5 among Hispanics and 5.8 among whites.
 Prior heart disease is a major risk factor for cardiac arrest.
 A family history of cardiac arrest in a first-degree relative (parents, offspring, siblings) is associated with a two-fold increase in risk of cardiac arrest.
 Aftermath  Based on Resuscitation Outcomes Consortium data, survival to hospital discharge with any first recorded rhythm was 10.6% and survival after bystander-witnessed VF was 31.4% for patients of any age.
 Based on Cardiac Arrest Registry to Enhance Survival data, survival to hospital discharge with any first recorded rhythm was 10.6% and survival with good neurologic function was 8.3%.
 Survival after bystander-witnessed VF was 33%.
 Based on a study conducted in New York City, survival to 30 days after hospital discharge was more than twice as poor for blacks as for whites and survival for Hispanics was also lower for whites.
 Children Incidence and Risk Factors  Approximately 6,328 individuals        Share Your Story     You can triple the chance of survival by immediately giving CPR.
 Click here to find out why &gt;            Get Involved Today     Save a Life Learn about the Chain of Survival and how to save the life of someone you love.
 Join the Community We are here for you when you need information, support and hope.
 Donate Every dollar helps save lives.
 Make a gift today.
 Copyright © 2020.
 Sudden Cardiac Arrest Foundation is a non-profit organization with a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt status.
 All rights reserved.
 Volunteer.
 Donate.
 Review.
 Main navigation    about sudden cardiac arrest   What is Sudden Cardiac Arrest?
 Definition   SCA or Heart Attack?
 Latest Statistics   Myths   Chain of Survival   Bystander Intervention   Be Prepared   SCA Risk Factors   Heart Screening   CPR &amp; AED Training   AED Deployment   Treatment Options   Therapeutic Hypothermia   Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator   Wearable Cardioverter Defibrillator   Frequently Asked Questions   Resources   Call-Push-Shock   Toolkit   SCAF Research   2015 Study   2017 Study     CPR &amp; AED Laws   AED Readiness     latest news   SCAF In the News   National News   SCAF News Releases   SCAF Newsletters     our programs   Speakers' Bureau   People Saving People   The Nominees   The Heroes     SCAF Network   Survivor Stories   Member Blogs   SCAF Programs   Call-Push-Shock   Video Contests   AED Readiness     about us   Contact   Our Story   Testimonials   Position Statements   Partners   Donors   Oregon Affiliate     how you can help   Volunteer   Donate   Why Donate?
