Vice President Mike Pence is at left.
 During her weekly press conference last Thursday, she said, “Lives are at stake.
 This is not a time for name-calling or playing politics.” Shortly after it had ended she was criticizing President Trump over his administration’s response to the coronavirus crisis as anemic, opaque, too late and often chaotic.
 All the while, Pelosi was holding back a House bill to provide funding to fight it.
 Speaking with Fox News’ Laura Ingraham on Monday night, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy said, “Look how much politics they want to play.
 The dirty little secret.
 We have the coronavirus.
 We need to fund this.
 You know what Nancy Pelosi, the Speaker, did?
 She withheld the bill last week.
 You know why?
 So the DCCC could run ads against seven Republicans.” Ingraham asked, “How many people ran ads on the coronavirus, fundraising appeals?” “I don’t know how many ran, but they actually took the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, spent money, went into these seven Republican seats to campaign against them about the coronavirus when she’s the Speaker of the House.
 Instead of putting America first, she put her politics first and kept the bill from coming to the floor,” McCarthy explained.
 Instead of putting America first, she is putting politics first.
 pic.twitter.com/ws0nn0hUXP — Kevin McCarthy (@GOPLeader) March 3, 2020  This is not surprising.
 For the Democrats, the coronavirus outbreak has become their latest weapon with which to damage the President.
 McCarthy brought this up during a GOP press conference today.
 He told reporters: Last week, we had an opportunity to bring forth the Supplemental, the needed funds for public health and others to deal with this item.
 We are not the majority.
 We cannot determine the floor, so Speaker Pelosi left, and had us leave Congress.
 This week, we hope we’re going to be able to bring it up.
 The one concerning issue that I have, not as just the leader of the Republicans, but really as an American.
 Why didn’t we vote on it last week?
 And why now is the Democratic arm of the DCCC running ads against seven Republicans?
 On something they could not vote on, because they could not control it.
 Are they playing politics and holding the money up so their political arm can attack Republicans on this issue?
 Can they, for one time put people before politics?
 I think they owe the American people an apology.
 I think the Speaker needs to apologize.
 Cheri Bustos needs to take those ads down and stop playing politics with this.
 America is nervous.
 We’ve been preparing for years in advance.
 We’ve got to make sure we have all the needed resources there.
 So bring the bill to the floor.
 HR3 is a very controversial bill which will require some debate.
 Walden basically said, let’s keep this separate, because the funds to fight the coronavirus crisis are needed now.
 It was a valiant effort Republicans, but unfortunately, I doubt too many of the journalists in the room will be reporting on it.
 (Relevant segment begins at 11:55.)
 This Is Just a Blue Smokescreen   PJ Media                         Advertise With Us Contact Us Terms &amp; Conditions  Privacy Policy California – Do Not Sell My Personal Information California - CCPA Notice                   Copyright ©2020 Redstate.com/Salem Media.
 All Rights Reserved.
