Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 ","image":"https:\/\/www.snopes.com\/uploads\/2016\/12\/texas_flag_fb-865x452.jpg","description":"A viral article inaccurately reported that Medicaid spending cuts in Texas affecting disabled children were thanks to &quot;emboldened&quot; state Republicans.
 Emboldened by Election, Texas Republicans Kill Medicaid Funding for Children with Disabilities?
 A viral article inaccurately reported that Medicaid spending cuts in Texas affecting disabled children were thanks to "emboldened" state Republicans.
 Kim LaCapria       Published 5 December 2016                          				smg.ads.load( 'post-featured-1' ); 			    Claim  Republicans in Texas made significant cuts to Medicaid after they were "emboldened" by the results of the 2016 general election.
 See Example(s)    									Is this true?
 Texas republicans kill Medicaid funding for kids with disabilities
 
  																			Collected via e-mail, December 2016        Rating         Mixture About this rating      What's True Texas lawmakers cut Medicaid funding.
 What's False They did not move to cut funding because they were suddenly emboldened by the 2016 general election.
 Do you rely on Snopes reporting?
 Become a member today.
 smg.ads.load( 'rating-1' ); 			    Origin  On 4 December 2016, the web site If You Only News published an article reporting that Texas Republicans “emboldened” by the 2016 general election had enacted drastic cuts to Medicaid spending for children with disabilities: In an all-out assault on the social safety net, Texas Republicans have seized the opportunity to finalize and enact a series of brutal budget cuts.
 Naturally, when this group of GOPers went looking for places to save money, they focused on programs that helped the poor – welfare and Medicaid.
 The cuts into medical help were particularly egregious – $350 million evaporated from Medicaid funding in an instant.
 That means less financial help for the sick.
 Less coverage for the poor.
 Less preventative care.
 Less reimbursements for costly medical procedures.
 Less lives saved.
 The claim linked to a 28 November 2016 Texas Tribune article that clarified the issue: More than a year after lawmakers originally ordered it, Texas announced Monday it will enact significant cuts to the money that it pays therapists who treat vulnerable children with disabilities in two weeks.
 Medicaid reimbursement rates are used to pay for pediatric therapy services provided to disabled babies and toddlers.
 Carrie Williams, spokeswoman for the state’s Health and Human Services Commission, said that Texas will apply cuts on Medicaid rates on Dec. 15 [2016] in attempt to achieve savings directed by the Texas Legislature in 2015.
 A group of concerned Texans last year filed a lawsuit seeking to block the $350 million cut to Medicaid, the federal-state insurance program for the poor and disabled, from taking effect.
 That group included speech, physical and occupational therapy providers and the families of children who receive their service.
 They argued that the cuts were so steep that providers would have to close their businesses and forgo seeing as many as 60,000 children.
 It is true that a large cut to Medicaid has been made in Texas (to which families and cares of disabled children strongly objected), but linking the news to the 2016 election was misleading.
 As the above-quoted excerpt (on which the subsequent claim was based) clearly states, the Texas Legislature “directed” the cuts in 2015.
 The article also reported that significant developments took place in September 2016, several weeks prior to the 8 November 2016 election: In September [2016], the Texas Supreme Court declined to hear their case, upholding a lower court’s ruling that the lawsuit lacked standing.
 While Texas did enact significant Medicaid cuts in a manner that stood to affect children with disabilities (and others), that proposal came long before the 2016 general election.
 Snopes.com   Since 1994     Help Supercharge Snopes For 2020  				We have big plans.
 We need your help.
 Become a member!
 Published 5 December 2016   By   Kim LaCapria     Filed Under   if you only news   medicaid   texas       Sources        Walters, Edgar.
 “Texas Supreme Court Allows Medicaid Cuts To Children’s Therapy To Proceed.”     Texas Tribune.
 23 September 2016.
 Walters, Edgar and Elena Mejia Lutz.
 “Texas Moving Forward With Budget Cuts For Disabled Kids’ Therapy Services.”     Texas Tribune.
 28 November 2016.                  				smg.ads.load( 'post-footer-1' ); 			    Editors' Picks         Trump’s ‘Major Fraud’ Speech, Fact-Checked    															4 November 2020													  							News						   "This is an embarrassment to our country," Trump said, before falsely claiming he had already won the election.
 Live Updates: Snopes Coverage of 2020 U.S. Election Day    															3 November 2020													  							News						   If the campaign season is any indication, misinformation is likely to fill social media feeds Tuesday.
 Get the facts here.
 Did Armed Trump Supporters Harass a Biden Bus in Texas?
 2 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   The Alamo City Trump Train Facebook Group was used to organize the convoy's movements.
 Is America Really ‘Rounding the Turn’ on COVID-19?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   We fact-checked the claims of those who sought to downplay the seriousness of the pandemic in the weeks prior to the 2020 presidential election.
 No, Trump Did Not Call for Biden’s Assassination    															29 October 2020													  							Fact Check						   Critics of the president latched onto his use of the phrase "Joe's shot," in a speech in October 2020.
 What did he actually say?
 14 August 2020													  							Fact Check						   Harris long ago distanced herself from the relationship.
 Did DHS Secretly Watermark Ballots in an Election Fraud Sting Against Dems?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Discussing election mechanics is easier when you actually know how elections work.
 Does Your Food Contain Beaver Anal Secretions?
 5 February 2013													  							Fact Check						   Alarmist warnings about beaver-derived castoreum are overblown: its use is now exceedingly rare, and the typical consumer is unlikely to ever encounter castoreum in food.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 Was a Pornhub Logo Accidentally Displayed on CNN?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   This video has racked up more than 7 million views.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			     Snopes.com needs your help.Become a member today.
 Learn How          				smg.ads.load( 'side-3' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 See the whole collection.
 Support Us       					You rely on Snopes, and we rely on you.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
