Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                 One Health            Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                         Zoonotic Diseases     Minus     Related Pages     Zoonotic diseases (also known as zoonoses) are caused by germs that spread between animals and people.
 Click here to download this image  Animals provide many benefits to people.
 Many people interact with animals in their daily lives, both at home and away from home.
 Animals provide food, fiber, livelihoods, travel, sport, companionship, and education for people across the globe.
 Millions of households in the United States have one or more pets.
 We might come into contact with animals in either urban or rural settings, during travel, while visiting animal exhibits, or while enjoying outdoor activities.
 However, animals can sometimes carry harmful germs that can spread to people and cause illness – these are known as zoonotic diseases or zoonoses.
 Zoonotic diseases are caused by harmful germs like viruses, bacterial, parasites, and fungi.
 These germs can cause many different types of illnesses in people and animals, ranging from mild to serious illness and even death.
 Animals can sometimes appear healthy even when they are carrying germs that can make people sick, depending on the zoonotic disease.
 Zoonotic diseases are very common, both in the United States and around the world.
 Scientists estimate that more than 6 out of every 10 known infectious diseases in people can be spread from animals, and 3 out of every 4 new or emerging infectious diseases in people come from animals.
 Because of this, CDC works 24/7 to protect people from zoonotic diseases in the United States and around the world.
 How do germs spread between animals and people?
 Because of the close connection between people and animals, it’s important to be aware of the common ways people can get infected with germs that can cause zoonotic diseases.
 These can include: animal icon Direct contact: Coming into contact with the saliva, blood, urine, mucous, feces, or other body fluids of an infected animal.
 Examples include petting or touching animals, and bites or scratches.
 home icon Indirect contact: Coming into contact with areas where animals live and roam, or objects or surfaces that have been contaminated with germs.
 Examples include aquarium tank water, pet habitats, chicken coops, barns, plants, and soil, as well as pet food and water dishes.
 flea icon Vector-borne: Being bitten by a tick, or an insect like a mosquito or a flea.
 food icon Foodborne: Each year, 1 in 6 Americans get sick from eating contaminated food.
 Eating or drinking something unsafe, such as unpasteurized (raw) milk, undercooked meat or eggs, or raw fruits and vegetables that are contaminated with feces from an infected animal.
 Contaminated food can cause illness in people and animals, including pets.
 hazard icon Waterborne: Drinking or coming in contact with water that has been contaminated with feces from an infected animal.
 Who is at a higher risk of serious illness from zoonotic diseases?
 Anyone can get sick from a zoonotic disease, including healthy people.
 However, some people are more at risk than others and should take steps to protect themselves or family members.
 These people are more likely than others to get really sick, and even die, from infection with certain diseases.
 These groups of people include:  Children younger than 5 Adults older than 65 People with weakened immune systems Pregnant women  What can you do to protect yourself and your family from zoonotic diseases?
 Healthy Pets, Healthy People Information on the benefits of pets, disease risks, keeping pets and people healthy, and outbreaks.
 Learn More People can come in contact with animals in many places.
 This includes at home and away from home, in places like petting zoos, fairs, schools, stores, and parks.
 Insects, like mosquitoes and fleas, and ticks bite people and animals day and night.
 Thankfully, there are things you can do to protect yourself and your family from zoonotic diseases.
 Keep hands clean.
 Washing your hands right after being around animals, even if you didn’t touch any animals, is one of the most important steps you can take to avoid getting sick and spreading germs to others.
 Always wash your hands after being around animals, even if you didn’t touch the animals.
 Many germs are spread by not washing hands properly with soap and clean, running water.
 If soap and water are not readily available, you can use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.
 Because hand sanitizers do not get rid of all types of germs, it is important to wash your hands with soap and water if they are available.
 Know the simple things you can do to stay safe around your pets.
 Prevent bites from mosquitoes, ticks, and fleas.
 Learn more about ways to handle food safely—whether it’s for yourself or your family, your pet, or other animals.
 Be aware of zoonotic diseases both at home, away from home (such as at petting zoos or other animal exhibits), in childcare settings or schools and when you travel.
 Avoid bites and scratches from animals.
 Influenza in AnimalsInformation on influenza A viruses found in many animals that can sometimes spread to people, like avian and swine flu.
 Learn MoreAntibiotic ResistanceInformation about antibiotic resistance and how it spreads through people, animals, and the environment.
 Learn MoreVector-borne DiseasesInformation on diseases spread by mosquitoes, ticks, and fleas and how to prevent them.
 Learn More          
 						Page last reviewed: July 14, 2017 Content source: 	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
 , National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)         homeOne Health  One Health Basicsplus icon  Zoonotic Diseases Historyplus icon  Stone Mountain Meeting Meetings     Who We Areplus icon  One Health Office Fact Sheet   What We Doplus icon  Zoonotic Disease Prioritizationplus icon  Prioritization Overview Completed Workshops US Workshop     One Health in Actionplus icon  China Holds First Stepwise Approach to Rabies Elimination (SARE) Workshop Working Together for One Health Educating Youth in Agriculture Understanding Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever in Kazakhstan Crowdsourcing for Zoonotic Diseases Poisoned Sea Otters in California The Story of the Rift Valley Fever Virus Vaccine Lead Poisoning Investigation in Northern Nigeria   ZOHU Calls/Webinarsplus icon  Continuing Education for ZOHU Calls/Webinars 2020 ZOHU Callsplus icon  November October September August June May March February   2019 ZOHU Callsplus icon  December November October September August June May April March February   2018 ZOHU Callsplus icon  December November October September August June May April March     Resource Libraryplus icon  One Health Graphics   What’s New Connect with Us     email_03Get Email Updates To receive a monthly update highlighting our recent work to prevent infectious disease, enter your email address:  Email Address  What's this?
 Submit               HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
