United States House of Representatives: History, Art, &amp; Archives  Map Blog Multimedia About    Search the website            Institution People Exhibitions &amp; Publications Collections Oral History Education Records &amp; Research      Congressional Profiles Historical Highlights Origins &amp; Development: From the Constitution to the Modern House Elections &amp; Vacancies House Service &amp; Seniority Congressional Apportionment Electoral College Fast Facts Firsts &amp; Milestones     Party Divisions Session Dates of Congress Saturday &amp; Sunday Legislative Days Joint Meetings, Joint Sessions, &amp; Inaugurations Presidents, Vice Presidents, &amp; Coinciding Sessions of Congress Presidential Vetoes     Congressional Gold Medal Recipients Funerals in the House Chamber Foreign Leaders and Dignitaries Who Have Addressed the U.S. Congress Individuals Who Have Lain in State or Honor State of the Union Desk Assignments Calendars of the House of Representatives Résumés Of Congressional Activitity    Featured     Search Historical Highlights of the House      Learn about Foreign Leader Addresses        People Search Mapping Congress Speakers of the House Majority Leaders Minority Leaders Democratic Whips Republican Whips Democratic Caucus Chairmen Republican Conference Chairmen     Clerks of the House Chaplains of the House Chief Administrative Officers of the House Parliamentarians of the House Sergeants at Arms Appointed Officials of the House Continental and Confederation Congresses     Postmasters of the House Doorkeepers of the House John W. McCormack Annual Award of Excellence to Congressional Employees Named Rooms of the House House Members Who Became U.S. Supreme Court Justices House Members Who Received Electoral College Votes    Featured     Search the People of the House      Majority Leaders        Asian and Pacific Islander Americans in Congress Hispanic Americans in Congress Black Americans in Congress Women in Congress Jeannette Rankin’s Historic Election: A Century of Women in Congress Joseph H. Rainey: 150 Years of Black Americans Elected to Congress The House and Civil Rights     How the House Works Campaign Collectibles: Running for Congress The First Women in Congress What's in the Capitol?
 House Office Buildings The Tourist’s Capitol Electronic Technology in the House of Representatives     The House Impeaches Andrew Johnson The People’s House: A Guide to Its History, Spaces, and Traditions History of the House Page Program The 1954 Shooting An Annual Outing: The Congressional Baseball Game What's on the Menu?
 Bean Soup!
 Florence Kahn: Congressional Widow to Trailblazing Lawmaker    Featured     Black Americans in Congress      The People’s House        Collections Search Events Furniture &amp; Decorative Arts Historical Artifacts     Life in the House Painting &amp; Sculpture People Photographs     Places Popular Culture Prints &amp; Drawings    Featured     Mace of the U.S. House of Represen- tatives        Oral History Search List of Interviewees Projects     The Long Struggle for Representation: Oral Histories of African Americans in Congress 1954 Shooting in the House Chamber A Century of Women in Congress Civil Rights Documentaries House Collection Objects     House Pages Institutional Interviews September 11, 2001 Watergate World War II    Featured     Search All Oral History Media        National History Day 2021: Communication in History Book Request Form for Educators Take #UncleJoeOnTheGo Time for a Tour: Visiting the People’s House     Lesson Plans Education Fact Sheets House Records in Your Classroom Glossary     House Trivia Timeline    Featured     Resources for National History Day 2021        Records Search Researching the House: Official Records     Researching the House: Other Primary Sources Researching the House: Bibliographies     Researching the House: Secondary Sources Finding Aids for Official House Records    Featured     Records Search: Explore Primary Sources                                                     About                      Home
          &gt;
         Institution
          &gt;
         Historical Highlights    Vote to feature this on the home page Cite Print Share        Historical Highlights The Ban on Hats on the House Floor September 14, 1837    Collection of the U.S. House of RepresentativesAbout this object Serving as the Member's office in the House Chamber, a Constantine desk (featured) had a shelf to store a Member's papers as well as their hat.
 On this date, the House adopted a rule stipulating that no Member could wear a hat on the floor during a session of the House.
 With virtually no debate, the rules were modified to read: “Every member shall remain uncovered during the sessions of the House.” The change was anticlimactic considering—as Hinds Precedents reported—that earlier proposals to ban hats were “the fruit of a considerable agitation” before 1837.
 In the institution’s early years, Representatives and guests in the galleries routinely donned their hats while the chamber was in session—a custom that hearkened to British Parliament.
 In 1822, Charles F. Mercer of Virginia proposed banning the practice.
 “Nor shall any Member remain in the Hall covered during the session of the House,” Mercer’s amendment read.
 Mercer’s proposal failed.
 Similar amendments went down to defeat on three other occasions when presented by different Representatives: George McDuffie of South Carolina in 1828, James K. Polk of Tennessee in 1833, and James Parker of New Jersey in 1835.
 Polk’s 1833 proposal “to provide that the members should sit in the House uncovered, unless under special leave of the Speaker,” caused a lively debate.
 Echoing earlier objections, Father of the House Lewis Williams of North Carolina argued that if Members were “to sit without hats” they would have no place to put them (the Old House Chamber had no facilities such as the modern day cloakrooms).
 Other Members stressed the symbolic value of the tradition, noting that members of the British House of Commons wore hats during debate to symbolize that body’s independence from the King of England.
 John M. Patton of Virginia defended “the really harmless but apparently indecorous practice of wearing our hats” as a manifestation of the House’s resolute rejection of presidential meddlesomeness.
 “Regarding then this usage as merely ‘the outward and visible sign of the inward and spiritual’ freedom of this body from all executive control or interference, let us preserve it,” Patton declared on the floor.
