Skip to content        Tech Internet Culture Streaming IRL About  About Us Contact Jobs Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ethics Policy              Tech Internet Culture Streaming IRL About  About Us Contact Jobs Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ethics Policy                                 Hillary/Flickr (CC BY SA 2.0)    Jeb Bush banned sex education at his own charter school He bragged about the school during campaigns—and then it shut down.
 Mar 1, 2020, 8:06 am*						  Tech    Patrick Howell O'Neill    The charter school that was once Jeb Bush’s pride and joy is now a trash-filled ruin in the Liberty City neighborhood of Miami.
 It was also the place where the presumptive 2016 presidential candidate found it necessary to remove sex education from the curriculum and replace it with “character education.” Liberty City Charter School (LCCS) was cofounded in 1996 by Bush as the first charter school in the state, located in a poor and mostly black neighborhood that Bush described as “one of the most challenging inner-city neighborhoods in Miami.” Bush worked on the school after running as an arch-conservative in the 1994 gubernatorial election—he lost—during which he said he would do “probably nothing” for African-Americans when he was governor.
 On Sunday, the New York Times published an article on Bush’s involvement with the school that ultimately ended with its failure—despite the fact that Bush cites it as an example of his education success.
 While the Times reinvigorated the national conversation about the LCCS, it’s really something that has never gone away.
 From eternal Internet debates to Bush himself, Liberty City is one of the defining sagas of Bush’s career because it marks the very beginning of his drive to reform education.
 “The actual experience of the school shows the perils of Bush’s free-market ideology,” wrote Diane Ravitch, a historian of education and research professor of education at New York University, on her blog about education.
 Jeb Bush’s charter school is a ruin baking in the Miami sun http://t.co/wEVn0l0GVk — The New York Times (@nytimes) March 8, 2015   (Sorry, this embed was not found.)
 Elected governor of Florida in 1998, Bush boasted about the school on many fronts for many years, a trend that continues today during his pseudo-presidential campaign.
 Back then, he argued the LCCS was a prime example of privatization working wonders.
 In the ’90s, Bush wrote of the “deinvention of government” by turning public institutions, like the education and justice systems, into for-profit industry.
 Charter schools, which have spread across the U.S., are largely funded by taxpayers but administered privately.
 Bush also bragged that his charter school was a vanguard of “virtue and free society.” Specifically, he boasted about the removal of sex education, calling it proof of the “freedom” given to school teachers and administrators.
 He also said it was part of “a nationwide movement to restore genuine character education.” It’s important to note that Bush’s school removed sex education from the curriculum in a neighborhood where teen pregnancy rates are high and healthcare dollars for pregnant women are in infamously short supply.
 It was a win for “the connection between virtue and good citizenship,” Bush argued, further asserting that “old-fashioned moral instruction that once served us so well” ought to be reinstated at the expense of programs like sex education in order to “make sure our schools are reinforcing what we have taught our children.”
