These answers can be attributed to Johanna Eager, Director of Welcoming Schools.
 Thanks so much!
 At issue: The accuracy of this claim, which relates to HRC Foundation training undertaken at two dozen Austin school district elementary schools:“Schools in Austin Independent School District are teaching children as young as 4 years old that their gender is fluid – that they’re not a boy or a girl and they can choose whichever gender they want.”Do you have any information that would speak to the accuracy of the claim?
 To clarify, the training passed along utilizes some of our resources in collaboration with Welcoming Schools, but the overall training was developed and crafted by the AISD.
 Welcoming Schools is not a curriculum.
 We provide educators with strategies and professional development opportunities to ensure their classrooms are safe and welcoming spaces so that all students can thrive academically.
 We do not say that gender is a choice, but in workshops with educators, Welcoming Schools does reference the research and data which demonstrate that children begin to understand their gender identity as early as the age of four.Is the Welcoming Schools material shown here an accurate rendition of that material as provided to Austin schools from 2014-15 through 2016-17?
 If not, can you provide access to the actual material?
 The linked material seems incomplete to me.
 Again, the actual PowerPoint and notes supplied here were crafted by AISD utilizing some Welcoming Schools resources, so we cannot speak to the completeness of the attached document.What are teachers, as early as pre-kindergarten, expected to tell students about gender identity as a result of the training?Welcoming Schools is more about creating a classroom climate where students feel safe to be who they are with all of their differences.
 As a result of the training, educators will be able to create more inclusive spaces so that children can express themselves in a way that help them learn.
 We encourage educators to accept students for who they are.
 Again, Welcoming Schools is about ensuring safe classrooms free of bullying and accepting of differences and diversity, it is not a curriculum.Anything else for us to consider?The focus of our professional development is to help educators create a respectful, welcoming and safe environment of all students.
 Children of all backgrounds and gender identities are frequently bullied based on their gender expression.
 It is the job of an educator to address gender role stereotyping and bullying based on gender.On Thu, Aug 17, 2017 at 11:44 AM, Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin) wrote:Thanks for the quick though vague replies.
 Can you provide me access to the relevant foundation materials?10:50 a.m.Of course.
 The difficulty is that we cannot speak to the specifics of the educator training in AISD given that it utilized Welcoming Schools resources, but was not created and performed by Welcoming Schools.
 :MSIE|rv)[: ]([^\);]+)(\)|;)/.exec(a);if(Sa)return/WebKit\/(\S+)/.exec(a);if(Oa)return/(?
 :Version)[ \/]?
