Skip to main content                Advanced Search               Home COVID-19 News Releases     Latest News Releases News By Subject   Agriculture Archaeology Atmospheric Science Biology Business &amp; Economics Chemistry &amp; Physics Earth Science Education Mathematics Medicine &amp; Health Policy &amp; Ethics Social &amp; Behavioral Space &amp; Planetary Tech &amp; Engineering   Science Business Announcements Grants, Awards, Books Languages   Auf Deutsch En Español En Français Em Português 日本語 中文   Portals   Climate Change Cancer Research  Marine Science     E-mail Newsletter        Latest News Releases  Science Business Announcements Grants Awards Books   E-mail Newsletter  RSS Feeds     Agriculture Archaeology Atmospheric Science Biology Business &amp; Economics Chemistry &amp; Physics Earth Science     Education Mathematics Medicine &amp; Health Policy &amp; Ethics Social &amp; Behavior Space &amp; Planetary Tech &amp; Engineering     Auf Deutsch En Español En Français Em Português 日本語  中文       Multimedia     All multimedia Images Video Audio Search multimedia        All Multimedia   Search Multimedia    Images   Video   Audio      Meetings     Meeting Announcements Meetings Calendar  Featured Newsrooms:   AHA Scientific Sessions 2020  13 - 17 November 2020         Virtual                     Meeting Announcements Meetings Calendar              Featured Newsrooms                      Portals     Hello World Foo Bar Dropdown Menu   Hello World Foo Bar   Another Link The Last Item        Climate ChangeThe latest insights into the changing climate More     Cancer ResearchNew findings in cancer treatment and prevention More     Marine ScienceIn-depth investigations on all things marine science More    Science Agencies  US Department of Energy US National Institutes of Health US National Science Foundation       About     About EurekAlert!
 For Reporters For PIOs FAQ Subscribe / Sponsor Contact EurekAlert!
 News Release Eligibility Guidelines        About EurekAlert!
 FAQ Subscribe / Sponsor   Contact EurekAlert!
 News Release Eligibility Guidelines    For Reporters EurekAlert!
 provides eligible reporters with free access to embargoed and breaking news releases.Eligibility Guidelines    For PIOS EurekAlert!
 offers eligible public information officers paid access to a reliable news release distribution service.Eligibility Guidelines    EurekAlert!
 is a service of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
 Login Register           Public Release: 28-Jan-2010       Blood test can predict rheumatoid arthritis before symptoms arise      Study confirms elevated cytokine levels are early indicator of disease Wiley         Share     Print  E-Mail      Researchers from University Hospital in Umea, Sweden, have identified several cytokines, cytokine-related factors, and chemokines that increase significantly prior to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) disease onset.
 These findings confirm those of earlier studies which suggest that the risk of developing RA can be predicted and disease progression may be prevented.
 Complete findings of this study are published in the February issue of Arthritis &amp; Rheumatism, a journal of the American College of Rheumatology.
 Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by joint inflammation involving the synovial (lubricating fluid of the joints) tissue and eventually leading to destruction of cartilage and bone.
 Numerous cytokines are expressed and are functionally active in the synovial tissue once the disease has developed.
 Now a research team led by Solbritt Rantapää-Dahlqvist, M.D.
 has found that several of these cytokine levels spike as much as several years prior to the development of arthritic symptoms.
 An early and accurate diagnosis of RA is crucial.
 According to the American College of Rheumatology, RA can be difficult to diagnose because it may begin with only subtle symptoms, such as achy joints or early morning stiffness.
 Many diseases including lupus, osteoarthritis and fibromyalgia, especially early on, mimic the symptoms of RA making diagnosis more difficult.
 Studies have shown that people who receive early treatment for RA feel better sooner and more often, are more likely to lead an active life, and are less likely to experience the type of joint damage that leads to joint replacement.
 To determine whether cytokines, cytokine-related factors, and chemokines are up-regulated prior to the development of RA, and which ones are involved, the team conducted a nested case-control study within the Medical Biobank of Northern Sweden.
 Blood samples were analyzed from 86 individuals before the appearance of symptoms of RA (pre-patients), from 69 of the pre-patients after the onset of RA, and from 256 matched control subjects (1:3 ratio).
 A consecutive time-dependent involvement of the immune system in disease development and progression was evaluated.
 The plasma levels of 30 cytokines, related factors, and chemokines were measured using a multiplex system.
 Individuals in whom RA subsequently developed were discriminated from control subjects mainly by the presence of Th1 cell-, Th2 cell-, and Treg cell-related cytokines, while chemokines, stromal cell-derived cytokines, and angiogenic-related markers separated patients after the development of RA from individuals before the onset of RA.
 "We observed a clear relationship between cytokines related not only to Th1, Th2, and Treg cells but also to Th17 and the presence of anti-CCP antibodies, thereby supporting the concept that the immune system was already stimulated and disease was developing toward RA," explains Dr. Rantapää-Dahlqvist.
 Researchers found that blood samples obtained from individuals had elevated concentrations of proinflammatory cytokines, cytokine-related factors, and chemokines, indicating immune system activation prior to any symptoms of joint involvement.
 "Our findings present an opportunity for better predicting the risk of developing RA and possibly preventing disease progression," concluded Dr. Rantapää-Dahlqvist.
 ### Article: "Up-Regulation of Cytokines and Chemokines Predates the Onset of Rheumatoid Arthritis."
 Heidi Kokkonen, Ingegerd Söderström, Joacim Rocklöv, Göran Hallmans, Kristina Lejon, and Solbritt Rantapää-Dahlqvist.
 Arthritis &amp; Rheumatism; Published Online: January 28, 2010 (DOI: 10.1002/art.27186); Print Issue Date: February 2010.
 This study is published in Arthritis &amp; Rheumatism.
 Media wishing to receive a PDF of this article may contact medicalnews@wiley.com Arthritis &amp; Rheumatism is an official journal of the American College of Rheumatology and covers all aspects of inflammatory disease.
 The American College of Rheumatology (www.rheumatology.org) is the professional organization who share a dedication to healing, preventing disability, and curing the more than 100 types of arthritis and related disabling and sometimes fatal disorders of the joints, muscles, and bones.
 Members include practicing physicians, research scientists, nurses, physical and occupational therapists, psychologists, and social workers.
 For details please visit, http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/76509746/home Wiley-Blackwell is the international scientific, technical, medical, and scholarly publishing business of John Wiley &amp; Sons, with strengths in every major academic and professional field and partnerships with many of the world's leading societies.
 Wiley-Blackwell publishes nearly 1,500 peer-reviewed journals and 1,500+ new books annually in print and online, as well as databases, major reference works and laboratory protocols.
 For more information, please visit www.wileyblackwell.com or www.interscience.wiley.com.
 Disclaimer: AAAS and EurekAlert!
 are not responsible for the accuracy of news releases posted to EurekAlert!
 by contributing institutions or for the use of any information through the EurekAlert system.
 Share     Print  E-Mail           Media Contact Dawn Peters medicalnews@wiley.com 781-388-8408 http://www.wiley.com/wiley-blackwell          More on this News Release    Blood test can predict rheumatoid arthritis before symptoms arise  Wiley   Journal Arthritis &amp; Rheumatism               Keywords    BIOCHEMISTRY MEDICINE/HEALTH                         Latest News Releases      Why consumers think pretty food is healthier AMERICAN MARKETING ASSOCIATION    Indian fossils support new hypothesis for origin of hoofed mammals TAYLOR &amp; FRANCIS GROUP    Migration and molt affect how birds change their colors MICHIGAN TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY    New findings for viral research on bicycle crashes at railroad crossings UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE AT KNOXVILLE   View all latest news releases         Trending News Releases     Early big-game hunters of the americas were female, researchers suggest University of California - Davis    Microbial space travel on a molecular scale University of Vienna    Core value of the Chengjian fauna: evolution of animals and birth of basic human organs Cactus Communications    Scientists develop method to detect charge traps in organic semiconductors Swansea University   View all latest news releases                  Copyright © 2020 by the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS)      Latest News Releases RSS Feed All EurekAlert!
 RSS Feeds @EurekAlert facebook.com/EurekAlert      Help / FAQ Disclaimer Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Contact EurekAlert!
 Copyright © 2020 by the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS)
