Are you over eighteen and willing to see adult content?NoYesUse of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy .
 ©2020 reddit inc. All rights reserved.
 By using our Services or clicking I agree, you agree to our use of cookies.
 Exclusive to this community.
 This astros scandal never ends!
 It is well known he has glass-cutting-nipples.
 And I'm pretty sure he can handle a 5k.
 You have sensitive nipples, they chafe, so they become more sensitive, so they chafe more.
 Also, as someone that is a human, I know where nipples are on a human male.
 Braces for my UK folks.
 Also I wear body armor, it doesn't have buckles or straps there.
 Also having done CPR, the guideline is compressions \"between the nipples\" and they're generally higher.
 Just my observations.
 Other photos of him from that day clearly show he is wearing a belt.
 I imagined that somehow, he stuck his thumb behind his teeth, and that allowed him to blow big smoke rings...?
 even I know why that's Stupid, and I'm a fucking idiot.
 I assumed it was part of some bullet proof vest.
 His tits ain’t saggin that fucking low.
 No suspenders.
 Cuomo is def wearing a bullet-proof vest under there.
 I just can't accept that they're nipple rings.
 I mean I can accept his choice, I just can't accept that I've been staring at them this whole time.
 The obvious answer.
 My guess is that’s about right.
 I'm having trouble seeing how this would work.
 THERE IS NO SHAME IN WEARING SUSPENDERS, SO WHY WOULD HE MAKE HIMSELF UNNECESSARILY UNCOMFORTABLE TO HIDE THEM?
 You just saw his fully pierced nipples and nothing will ever change that.
 I wore a pair for a wedding a few years back and I am hooked.
 Once you got the fit right, you will never need to adjust your pants or waist any more.
 From personal experience, they're extremely easy to point out.
 I just startled my dogs awake with my sudden burst of laughter at this.
 As Martin Luther King Jr said, lest ye not be judged by the droopage of your nips, but by the content of your character.
 Just because your grandpa did it 50 years ago and has continued to do so today does not make it normal.
 Google Cuomo Polo, his polo is tucked in in every picture that you can see his pants.
 Man has led a damn good effort toward keeping people safe.
 I always get so anxious reading reddit and listening to NPR.
 I’ve watched multiple updates by Cuomo and I always feel clear and level-headed after reinforcing the fact that all I can really do is sit my ass at home and wash my hands as much as I can.
 So if the man wants to wear a ball gag and BDSM outfit and take out the ball gag just for press conferences, be my fucking guest.
 If he wants to dress up as a furry, come in with coconuts pretending to gallop, and neigh at the beginning of his press conferences—by all means.
 Point is, even with all of this hypothetical dress up, I see ten times more leadership skills from this governor than our president—in a suit.
 Cuomo was still pushing people to go out up until March 15th.
 He didn't listen and caused this to be worse.
 TSA screeners at NY airports never screened passengers returning from Europe and other countries.
 People repeatedly stated no one asked any questions when they walked through customs at the airport.
 I will admit JB Pritzkger and John Inslee did a decent job at stoping the spread.
 Governor Cuomo wears suspenders!
 He should wear an undershirt or something.
 The fuck is wrong with that, fuck all y'all.
 What a catch!
 Conservative and Liberals alike!
 the first time i ever put on a proper dress shirt, my mother was like, \"you ALWAYS wear an undershirt because nobody wants to see a man's nipples!
 this motherfucker must just be pervin' out knowing everybody can see his piercings lol.
 Get over it.
 Fuckin belly nipples.
 Im on team suspenders.
 Because he was in office when a virus hit?
 Is Giuliani a hero for happening to be in office for 9/11?
 sycophant shit is lame and dumb.
 he literally just slashed benefits for his constituents like 2 weeks ago.
 Who wear braces under their shirt?
 To hold his underpants up???
 Did you people turn into your grandparents all of a sudden?
 I'm honestly ashamed of you.
 his piercings have nothing to do with who he is as a person or as governor.
 people are allowed to do whatever they want with their bodies, aren't they?
 mad respect from someone who also has theirs pierced and wont take them out because I get old.
 Not once did Cuomo demand we thank him and when asked a reasonable but tough question from a reporter he didn't lash out at them.
 Surreal.
 Oh god.
 He was waiting until he was out of office to get them done but with everything going on he was like \"well it could be now or never, let's do this\".
 Unzips.
 His office is doing a rabies awareness fun run later and he doesn't want to rub them raw.
 The good one.
 Please tag mildly NSFW-posts with the appropriate tag.
 The good one.
