Now with a new introduction by the author, this entertaining look inside the world of Donald Trump is chock full of rip-roaring anecdotes, jaw-dropping quotes, and rigorous research into the business deals, political antics, curious relationships, and complex background of the forty-fifth US president.
 Granted unprecedented access, Timothy L. O’Brien traveled across the country and up and down the East Coast with Trump on his private jet, wheeled around Palm Beach with him in his Ferrari, and spent hours interviewing him in his home, in his office, and on the golf course.
 He met with the entrepreneur’s closest friends and most aggressive rivals, while compiling a treasure trove of Trumpisms from the Donald himself:  Trump on the public’s enduring fascination with Trump: “There is something crazy, hot, a phenomenon out there about me, but I’m not sure I can define it and I’m not sure I want to.”  Trump on naysayers: “You can go ahead and speak to guys who have four-hundred-pound wives at home who are jealous of me, but the guys who really know me know I’m a great builder.”  Trump on the art of self-promotion: “You might as well tell people how great you are, because no one else is going to.”   Ultimately, when O’Brien’s research revealed that Trump’s business record and annual spot on the Forbes 400 list of richest Americans might be more fantasy than reality, he—like so many others who have dared to tangle with the former host of The Apprentice—found himself in a courtroom.
 In a new introduction, O’Brien reflects on the recent wave of TrumpMania and updates readers on what it’s like to depose one of the world’s most litigious businessmen—and win.
 What people are saying - Write a reviewLibraryThing ReviewUser Review  - MrDickie - LibraryThingFirst published in Oct 2005, then in trade paperback published in Jun 2016.
 He has worked at the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, Talk magazine, and the Huffington Post.
 O’Brien edited a Pulitzer Prize–winning series on wounded war veterans in 2012 and is a recipient of the Gerald Loeb Award for Distinguished Business and Financial Journalism.
 As an editor at the New York Times, he helped oversee the paper’s Pulitzer Prize–nominated coverage of the 2008 financial crisis.
 As a writer, O’Brien has covered a wide range of topics, including Wall Street, digital media, Hollywood, geopolitics, terrorism, corporate strategy, innovation, and white-collar fraud.
 He is the author of two works of nonfiction: TrumpNation: The Art of Being the Donald and Bad Bet: The Inside Story of the Glamour, Glitz, and Danger of America’s Gambling Industry.
 His debut novel, The Lincoln Conspiracy, was published in 2012.
 O’Brien is a graduate of Georgetown University and holds three graduate degrees from Columbia University.
