SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexNew YorkToday’s PaperNew York|Big Concrete Supplier Faces U.S. Inquiry Into Possible Mob Tiehttps://nyti.ms/29uAPU8AdvertisementContinue reading the main storySupported byContinue reading the main storyBig Concrete Supplier Faces U.S. Inquiry Into Possible Mob TieBy Selwyn RaabMarch 5, 1990Credit...The New York Times ArchivesSee the article in its original context from March 5, 1990, Section B, Page 1Buy ReprintsView on timesmachineTimesMachine is an exclusive benefit for home delivery and digital subscribers.About the ArchiveThis is a digitized version of an article from The Times’s print archive, before the start of online publication in 1996.
 To preserve these articles as they originally appeared, The Times does not alter, edit or update them.Occasionally the digitization process introduces transcription errors or other problems; we are continuing to work to improve these archived versions.A company that recently expanded to become the largest supplier of concrete in the New York metropolitan area is under Federal investigation for possible financial irregularities and ties to organized crime, according to lawyers, officials and others familiar with the inquiry.Until 1988, the company, Valente Industries, operated three plants that produced ready-mix concrete and had less than 5 percent of the city's market with total annual sales of about $5 million, construction industry experts say.
 It now owns or operates nine plants in the city and Westchester County, and officials of other concrete supply companies say it grossed about $50 million in 1989.In a raid on Feb. 14, Federal agents seized the financial records of Valente Industries, which, officials of the other companies say, produced 40 to 50 percent of the $120 million worth of concrete sold last year for building and road construction work in the city.
 In an interview, the vice president of the company, Carmine Valente, denied that the company had engaged in illegal activities and said he had ''no idea'' why company records for the last three years had been subpoenaed by a Federal grand jury in Manhattan.The rise of Valente Industries coincided with the steady decline of the Certified Concrete Company, which previously had been the No.
 1 supplier of concrete in the city.
 In 1988, Edward J.
 (Biff) Halloran, Certified's principal owner, and Anthony (Fat Tony) Salerno, a reputed Mafia boss, were convicted of Federal racketeering charges, including corruption in the concrete industry.Rigged ContractsFederal and state law-enforcement authorities say the Mafia has long held widespread influence in the city's concrete industry, receiving kickbacks in return for rigged contracts and labor peace.Organized crime's grip on the industry has been cited by experts as one of the reasons behind high construction costs in the city.
 In the last decade, the average price of concrete has been 10 to 20 percent higher in New York City than in its suburbs and in most other big cities in the Northeast.The assets of the bankrupt Certified Concrete Company are expected to be sold later this month in an unusual business arrangement that will require a Federal monitor or overseer for seven years.
 The bankruptcy came after an antitrust inquiry and the indictments of Mr. Halloran on Federal and state charges.
 According to State Attorney General Robert Abrams, one of the partners in the proposed purchase of Certified, John Quadrozzi, has ''acknowledged associating with organized-crime figures.
 ''Deborah A. Corley, a spokeswoman for the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, Otto G. Obermaier, refused to discuss the inquiry into Valente Industries.A Court OrderMs.
 Corley said that at a hearing in Federal District Court in Manhattan last spring, the United States Attorney's office obtained a court order blocking the S &amp; A Concrete Company, a Bronx building contractor, from buying concrete from Valente Industries.
 The Federal Government had seized 50 percent of S &amp; A's assets in 1988 after one of its principal owners was convicted of racketeering charges.Federal prosecutors, at a closed hearing, had objected to the purchase from Valente, Ms. Corley said.
 Federal law, she said, prohibited disclosing the reasons for the Government's objections because the transcript of the hearing had been sealed.Mr.
 Abrams, in a letter to a city offical last November, said he had information that the United States Attorney's office had opposed the deal with Valente Industries because of suspected links between Valente Industries and organized-crime figures.Charles A. Stillman, a lawyer who was retained by Valente Industries last Tuesday, denounced the assertions that the company had possible organized-crime connections as ''outrageous hearsay.
 ''Asked about the Federal investigation, Mr. Stillman said, ''My sense is that this is in a very preliminary stage and to the extent humanly possible we expect to be fully cooperative.
 ''Law-enforcement officials and lawyers familiar with the inquiry said that in addition to organized-crime ties, investigators were trying to determine if Valente Industries had violated antitrust laws through illegal price-cutting.
 The investigators, officials said, also were checking on the source of funds used by the company to expand.
 'A Business Gamble'''They'll find out when they go through our papers that we legally borrowed money and that everything we've done is through hard work and efficiency,'' Mr. Valente said in telling how the company financed its growth.
 ''You can question whether it was a smart thing to do, but it was a business gamble that we think will work.''Mr.
 Valente said competitors had exaggerated the company's share of the market and he contended that it was far below 40 percent.Mr.
 Valente said his father, Louis Valente, the president of the company, had operated a ready-mix plant in Flushing, Queens, since 1976.
 The company acquired a second plant in the University Heights section of the Bronx in 1981 and a third in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn in 1986.In the last two years the company took over or built six more plants: three in southern Westchester County, one in the West Farms section of the Bronx, one in Coney Island in Brooklyn, and one in Long Island City in Queens.Mr.
 Valente said the Long Island City and Red Hook plants gave his company's fleet of cement-mixer trucks quick access to Manhattan and allowed the company to compete for the city's most lucrative market, the sale of reinforced concrete to contractors erecting high-rise office and residental buildings in Manhattan.Chief Supplier to CityThe emergence of Valente Industries as the chief supplier of concrete in the city was noted in documents made public last December when the city's Board of Estimate approved the leasing of city-owned properties to the prospective buyers of Certified Concrete's plants in Manhattan and the Bronx.
 A court-appointed trustee and lawyer, David M. Brodsky, who has been running Certified for three years, told the board that Certified had been losing business because of ''anticompetitive price-cutting'' by Valente Industries and other companies.Last November, Mr. Abrams, in a letter to Robert Esnard, who was then the Deputy Mayor for Policy and Physical Development in the administration of former Mayor Edward I. Koch, said he had been told by Mr. Brodsky that ''another potential monopoly is quickly gaining'' a ''dominant market share in the concrete industry.''Mr.
 Abrams, in his letter, did not identify the company said to be the ''potential monopoly.''
 But he added that Mr. Brodsky, relying upon information from the United States Attorney's office, had informed him that the company was ''linked to organized crime'' and had engaged ''in labor racketeering and threats of violence'' to get business.A spokesman for Mr. Abrams, Timothy Gilles, said in an interview last Thursday that the company Mr. Abrams had cited anonymously in his letter was Valente Industries and that the identification had been based on information obtained by Mr. Brodsky from Federal authorities.In an arrangement approved by the United States Attorney's office, Mr. Brodsky said Certified Concrete is expected to be bought later this month for $12 million by Mr. Quadrozzi and Michael DiBenedetto, who operate concrete-supply companies.
 Under terms imposed by Federal prosecutors, a federally appointed monitor will oversee the company's operations for seven years and the new owners are barred from associating with organized-crime figures.
 'Grave Reservations'Mr.
 Abrams, whose office has investigated antitrust activities in the concrete industry, said in his letter to Mr. Esnard that he had ''grave reservations'' about the sale of Certified to Mr. Quadrozzi.
 But he said he would not oppose it because it had been authorized by other state and Federal law-enforcment authorities.According to Mr. Abrams, Mr. Quadrozzi had acknowledged to state investigators that he had associated with organized-crime members and had made payments from 1964 to 1986 to Frank Manzo, a reputed soldier in the Lucchese crime family.Mr.
 Quadrozzi, in an interview, said Mr. Manzo had been ''an acquaintance, a family friend'' for many years and insisted he he had made no illicit payments to him.
 ''The U.S. Attorney wouldn't have approved us to buy Certified if there was a problem,'' Mr. Quadrozzi said.Mr.
 Quadrozzi, who is president of the Association of New York City Concrete Producers, a trade group representing ready-mix manufacturers, said about two million cubic yards of concrete were produced here last year for the construction of buildings and highways.
 A yard of concrete is equivalent to about 4,000 pounds.Concern Over PricesA construction trade journal, Engineering News Record, reported that the average price of ready-mix concrete in the city last month was about $62 a yard.
 It was about $53 a yard in eight other cities, including Philadelphia, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles and Montreal, the publication reported.Concerned about the high price of concrete in Manhattan, the Koch administration in 1987 helped subsidize the formation of a private concrete supplier, the West 57th Street Concrete Corporation.
 Companies that have city construction contracts in Manhattan are obligated to buy their concrete from the West 57th plant.The West 57th Street concern produced about 75,000 yards of concrete last year, almost all of it for city jobs.
 It now owns or operates nine plants in the city and Westchester County, and officials of other concrete supply companies say it grossed about $50 million in 1989.
 In an interview, the vice president of the company, Carmine Valente, denied that the company had engaged in illegal activities and said he had ''no idea'' why company records for the last three years had been subpoenaed by a Federal grand jury in Manhattan.
 1 supplier of concrete in the city.
 In 1988, Edward J.
 (Biff) Halloran, Certified's principal owner, and Anthony (Fat Tony) Salerno, a reputed Mafia boss, were convicted of Federal racketeering charges, including corruption in the concrete industry.
 In the last decade, the average price of concrete has been 10 to 20 percent higher in New York City than in its suburbs and in most other big cities in the Northeast.
 The bankruptcy came after an antitrust inquiry and the indictments of Mr. Halloran on Federal and state charges.
 According to State Attorney General Robert Abrams, one of the partners in the proposed purchase of Certified, John Quadrozzi, has ''acknowledged associating with organized-crime figures.
 The Federal Government had seized 50 percent of S &amp; A's assets in 1988 after one of its principal owners was convicted of racketeering charges.
 Abrams, in a letter to a city offical last November, said he had information that the United States Attorney's office had opposed the deal with Valente Industries because of suspected links between Valente Industries and organized-crime figures.
 The investigators, officials said, also were checking on the source of funds used by the company to expand.
 Valente said his father, Louis Valente, the president of the company, had operated a ready-mix plant in Flushing, Queens, since 1976.
 The company acquired a second plant in the University Heights section of the Bronx in 1981 and a third in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn in 1986.
 Valente said the Long Island City and Red Hook plants gave his company's fleet of cement-mixer trucks quick access to Manhattan and allowed the company to compete for the city's most lucrative market, the sale of reinforced concrete to contractors erecting high-rise office and residental buildings in Manhattan.
 A court-appointed trustee and lawyer, David M. Brodsky, who has been running Certified for three years, told the board that Certified had been losing business because of ''anticompetitive price-cutting'' by Valente Industries and other companies.
 Abrams, in his letter, did not identify the company said to be the ''potential monopoly.''
 But he added that Mr. Brodsky, relying upon information from the United States Attorney's office, had informed him that the company was ''linked to organized crime'' and had engaged ''in labor racketeering and threats of violence'' to get business.
 Under terms imposed by Federal prosecutors, a federally appointed monitor will oversee the company's operations for seven years and the new owners are barred from associating with organized-crime figures.
 But he said he would not oppose it because it had been authorized by other state and Federal law-enforcment authorities.
 Quadrozzi, in an interview, said Mr. Manzo had been ''an acquaintance, a family friend'' for many years and insisted he he had made no illicit payments to him.
 Quadrozzi, who is president of the Association of New York City Concrete Producers, a trade group representing ready-mix manufacturers, said about two million cubic yards of concrete were produced here last year for the construction of buildings and highways.
 A yard of concrete is equivalent to about 4,000 pounds.
 It was about $53 a yard in eight other cities, including Philadelphia, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles and Montreal, the publication reported.
 Companies that have city construction contracts in Manhattan are obligated to buy their concrete from the West 57th plant.
 Most construction industry analysts say the plant's small level of production has not cut concrete prices in Manhattan and by charging more than other companies had increased construction costs borne by the city.
