NDA 18-677/S-011 Page 4 
  
Data on the chronic use of Cesamet are not available; experience with cannabis suggests that chronic 

use of cannabinoids may be associated with a vari
ety of untoward effects on motivation, cognition, 
judgment, as well as other mental status change
s.  Whether these phenomena reflect the underlying 
character of individuals chronically abusing cannabi
s or are a result of the use of cannabis is not 
known. 
 
The simultaneous use of Cesamet a
nd alcohol or barbiturates may pr
oduce additive depressive effects 
on central nervous system function.  Possible change
s in mood and other adverse behavioral effects 
may occur in patients receiving Ce
samet. Patients should 
remain under supervisi
on of a responsible 
adult while using Cesamet. 

 
Cesamet has central nervous system activity. It pr
oduces relaxation, drowsine
ss, and euphoria in the 
recommended dosage range. Tolerance to these effects develops rapidly and is readily reversible. 

 
In addition to effects on the mental state, Cesame
t has several systemic actions; most prominent are 
dry mouth and hypotension. Cesamet has been observed
 to elevate supine and standing heart rates and 
to cause supine and orthostatic hypotension. In
 clinical studies, oral administration of  
2 mg of Cesamet did produce some 
decrease in airway resistance in
 normal controls but had no effect 
in patients with asthma. No other 
nontherapeutic effects of clinical 
significance due to Cesamet have 
been reported. 

 Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption and Distribution:
 Cesamet (nabilone) appears to be completely absorbed from the human 
gastrointestinal tract when administered orally. 
Following oral administration of a 2-mg dose of 
radiolabeled nabilone, peak plasma concentratio
ns of approximately 2 ng/mL nabilone and 10 ng 
equivalents/mL total 
radioactivity are achieved within 2.0 hours.
 The plasma half-life (T
1/2) values for 
nabilone and total radio
activity of identified and 
unidentified metabolites 
are about 2 and 35 hours, 
respectively. The initial rapid disappearance of radioactivity represents uptake and distribution of 

nabilone into tissue and the slower phase elimination by metabolism and excretion.
 The apparent 
volume of distribution of nabilone is about 12.5 L/kg.
   
Nabilone exhibits dose linearity within its therapeutic 
range. Clinical data suggests that the intake of 
food does not significantly affect either
 the rate or extend of absorption. 
 
Metabolism: 
Metabolism of nabilone is extensive and several metabolites have been identified.
 Precise 
information concerning the metabo
lites that may accumulate is not av
ailable. The relative activities of 
the metabolites and the parent drug have not been established. There are at least two metabolic 

pathways involved in the biotransformation of 
nabilone. A minor pathwa
y is initiated by the 
stereospecific enzymatic reduction of the 9-keto moie
ty of nabilone to produce the isomeric carbinol 
metabolite. The peak concentrations of nabilone and its carbinol metabolites are comparable, but their 

combined exposures in plasma do not account for more
 than 20% of that of total radioactivity.  
Secondly, a metabolite of na
bilone in feces has been identified as 
a diol formed by reduction of the 9-
keto group plus oxidation at the penultimate carbon of 
the dimethylheptyl side chain. In addition, there 
is evidence of extensive metabolism of Ce
samet by multiple P
450 enzyme isoforms. 
In vitro
 P450 
inhibition studies using human liver microsomes show
ed that nabilone did not significantly inhibit 
CYP1A2, 2A6, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A4 (using midazolam 
and nifedipine as substrates). Nabilone had a 
weak inhibitory effect on CYP 2E
1 and 3A4 (using testosterone; IC
50 > 50 µM) and had a moderate 
 NDA 18-677/S-011 Page 5 
 inhibitory effect on CYP2C8 and 2C9 (IC
50 > 10 µM). However, in clinical use, the very low nabilone 
plasma concentration is unlikely to interfere with
 the P450-mediated degrad
ation of co-administered 
drugs.  Chronic oral administration of  

1 mg t.i.d. for 14 days to 3 subjects gave no indication there was any significant accumulation of 

nabilone.  Available evidence suggests that one or more of the metabolites has a terminal elimination 

half-life that exceeds that of nab
ilone. Consequently, in repeated us
e, the metabolites may accumulate 
at concentrations in excess of the parent drug. 
  
Elimination: The route and rate of the elimination of nabilone and its metabolites are similar to those 
observed with other cannabinoids, including delta-9-THC
 (dronabinol). When nabilone is administered 
intravenously, the drug and its me
tabolites are eliminated mainly in
 the feces (approximately 67%) and 
to a lesser extent in the urine (approximately 22%) within 7 days.
 Of the 67% recovered from the feces, 
5% corresponded to the parent com
pound and 16% to its carbinol metabolite.
 Following oral 
administration about 60% of nabilone
 and its metabolites were recovere
d in the feces and about 24% in 
urine. Therefore, it appears that the major excretory pathway is the biliary system. 
 
The effects of age, gender,
 hepatic dysfunction, a
nd renal insufficiency on the metabolism and 
elimination of nabilone have not been determined.
 Special Populations:
 The pharmacokinetic profile 
of Cesamet has not been 
investigated in either 
pediatric (See 
PRECAUTIONS
, Pediatric Use
) or geriatric patients (See 
PRECAUTIONS
, Geriatric Use
).  CLINICAL TRIALS 
Cesamet was evaluated for its effectiveness and safety in the treatment of nausea and vomiting induced 
by cancer chemotherapy in patients receiving a wide variety of chemotherapy regimens, including low-

dose cisplatin (20 mg/m
2) in both placebo-controlled and active cont
rolled (prochlorperazine) trials.   
 During Cesamet treatment patients re
ported a higher incidence of adverse effects. The most frequent 
were drowsiness, vertigo, dry m
outh and euphoria. However, most 
of the adverse effects occurring 
with Cesamet were of mild to moderate severity (See 
ADVERSE REACTIONS
).   
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 
Cesamet capsules are indicated for the treatment of the nausea and vomiting associated with cancer 
chemotherapy in patients who have
 failed to respond adequately to conventional antiemetic treatments.
 This restriction is required beca
use a substantial proportion of an
y group of patients treated with 
Cesamet can be expected to experience disturbing 
psychotomimetic reactions 
not observed with other 
antiemetic agents. 

 
Because of its potential to alter the mental state, 
Cesamet is intended for use under circumstances that 
permit close supervision of the patient by a respons
ible individual particularly during initial use of 
Cesamet and during 
dose adjustments. 
 
Cesamet contains nabilone
, which is controlled in Schedule II 
of the Controlled Substances Act.  
Schedule II substances have a high potential for abus
e. Prescriptions for Cesamet should be limited to 
the amount necessary for a single cycle 
of chemotherapy (i.e., a few days). 
  NDA 18-677/S-011 Page 6 
 Cesamet capsules are not intended to be used on as needed basis or as a first antiemetic product 

prescribed for a patient. 

 
As with all controlled drugs, prescribers should 
monitor patients receiving nabilone for signs of 
excessive use, abuse and misuse. Patients who may be at increase risk for substance abuse include 

those with a personal or family history of substance 
abuse (including drug or 
alcohol abuse) or mental 
illness.
  CONTRAINDICATIONS
 Cesamet is contraindicated in any patient who has a history of hypersensitivity to any cannabinoid.
   
Warnings 
• The effects of Cesamet may persist for a variable
 and unpredictable period of time following its 
oral administration. Adverse 
psychiatric reactions can persist for 48 to 72 hours following 
cessation of treatment. 
 • Cesamet has the potential to affect the CNS, which might manifest itself in dizziness, 
drowsiness, euphoria ﬁhighﬂ, ataxia, anxiety, 
disorientation, depressi
on, hallucinations and 
psychosis. 
 • Cesamet can cause tachycardia and orthostatic hypotension. 
 • Because of individual variation in response and 
tolerance to the effect
s of Cesame
t, patients 
should remain under supervision of a responsible
 adult especially during initial use of Cesamet 
and during dose adjustments.  
 • Patients receiving treatment with Cesamet should 
be specifically warned not to drive, operate 
machinery, or engage in any hazardous activity while receiving Cesamet. 
 • Cesamet should not be taken 
with alcohol, sedatives, hypnotics, or other psychoactive 
substances because these substa
nces can potentiate the central
 nervous system effects of 
nabilone.  PRECAUTIONS 
General 
The benefit/risk ratio of 
Cesamet use should be carefully eval
uated in patients with the following 
medical conditions because of indivi
dual variation in response and tolera
nce to the effects of Cesamet. 
• Since Cesamet can elevate supine and standing
 heart rates and cause postural hypotension, it 
should be used with caution in the elderly, and 
in patients with hypertension or heart disease. 
• Cesamet should also be used with caution in 
patients with current or previous psychiatric 
disorders, (including manic depr
essive illness, depre
ssion, and schizophrenia) as the symptoms 
of these disease states may be unm
asked by the use of cannabinoids. 
• Cesamet should be used with caution in indi
viduals receiving concomitant therapy with 
sedatives, hypnotics, or other psychoactive drugs because of the potential for additive or 
synergistic CNS effects. 
 NDA 18-677/S-011 Page 7 
  • Cesamet should be used with cau
tion in patients with a history of substance abuse, including 
alcohol abuse or dependence and marijuana us
e, since Cesamet cont
ains a similar active 
compound to marijuana.  • The safety aspects of the effects of hepatic a
nd renal impairment have 
not been investigated. 
 • Nabilone is purportedly highly bound to plasma
 proteins and undergoes extensive first pass 
hepatic metabolism.  Those properties have the potential to lead to drug-drug interactions 
affecting the pharmacokinetics of si
milar behaving co-administered dr
ugs or of Cesamet itself.   
 • The effects of QT prolongation potential 
by Cesamet have not been determined. 
 • Cesamet should be used with cau
tion in pregnant patients, nur
sing mothers, or pediatric 
patients because it has not been studied in these patient populations. 
 Information for Patients 
Persons taking Cesamet should be
 alerted to the potential for a
dditive central nervous system 
depression resulting from simultaneous
 use of Cesamet and alcohol or
 other central nervous system 
depressants such as benzodiazepines and barbiturate
s. This combination shoul
d be avoided.  Patients 
receiving treatment with Cesamet should be specifical
ly warned not to drive, operate machinery, or 
engage in any hazardous activity.
  Patients using Cesame
t should be made aware of possible changes 
in mood and other adverse behavioral effects of the 
drug so as to avoid panic in the event of such 
manifestations. Patients should remain under supervision of a res
ponsible adult while using Cesamet. 
 Drug Interactions Potential interactions 
between Cesamet 2 mg, and diazepam
 5 mg; sodium secobarbital 100 mg; 
alcohol 45 mL (absolute laboratory alcohol); or code
ine 65 mg, were evaluated in 15 subjects. Only a 
single combination was utilized at any one time. Th
e subjects were evaluated according to physiologic 
(i.e., heart rate and blood pressure), psychometric,
 psychomotor, and subjective parameters. In this 
study, as expected, the depressant effects of the combinations were additive. Psychomotor function 

was particularly impaired with 
concurrent use of diazepam. Cau
tion must thus be used when 
administering nabilone in combin
ation with any CNS depressant. 
Nabilone is purportedly highly bound 
to plasma proteins, and therefor
e, might displace other protein-
bound drugs. Therefore, practitioners should monito
r patients for a change in dosage requirements 
when administering nabilone to patients 
receiving other highly protein-bound drugs.
 Published reports 
of drug/drug interactions involving cannabi
noids are summarized in the following table.
  CONCOMITANT DRUG 
 CLINICAL EFFECT(S) 
 Amphetamines, cocaine, other sympathomimetic 
agents  
Additive hypertension, tachycardia, possibly cardiotoxicity 
Atropine, scopolamine, antihistamines, other 
anticholinergic agents  
Additive or super-additive tachycardia, drowsiness 
Amitriptyline, amoxapine, desipramine, other 
tricyclic antidepressants  
Additive tachycardia, hypertension, drowsiness 
Barbiturates, benzodiazepines, ethanol, lithium, 
opioids, buspirone, antihistamines, muscle relaxants, 

other CNS depressants  
Additive drowsiness and CNS depression 
Disulfiram  A reversible hypomanic reaction was reported in a 28 y/o 
 NDA 18-677/S-011 Page 8 
 man who smoked marijuana; confirmed by dechallenge and 
rechallenge 
Fluoxetine  A 21 y/o female with depression and bulimia receiving 20 
mg/day fluoxetine X 4 wks became hypomanic after 
smoking marijuana; symptoms resolved after 4 days 
Antipyrine, barbiturates  Decreased clearance of these agents, presumably via 
competitive inhibition of metabolism 
Theophylline  Increased theophylline metabolism reported with smoking o
f marijuana; effect similar to 
that following smoking tobacco 
Opioids Cross-tolerance and mutual potentiation 
Naltrexone Oral THC effects were enhanced by opioid receptor 
blockade. 
Alcohol Increase in the positive subjective mood effects of smoked 
marijuana 
  Animal Pharmacology and/or Toxicology  
Monkeys treated with Cesamet at doses as high as 2 mg/kg/day for a year experienced no 
significant adverse events. This result contrasts with
 the findings in a planned 1-year dog study that 
was prematurely terminated because of deaths a
ssociated with convulsions in dogs receiving as 
little as 0.5 mg/kg/day. The earliest deaths, however, occurred at 56 days in dogs receiving 2 

mg/kg/day. The unusual vulnerability of the dog to Cesamet is not understood; it is hypothesized, 

however, that the explanation lies in the fact that the dog differs markedly from other species in its 
metabolism of Cesamet. 
Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis,
 Impairment of Fertility 
No long-term studies in animals have been pe
rformed to evaluate th
e carcinogenic potential of 
nabilone.   
 
Nabilone was not genotoxic in the Ames test, th
e rat hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) 
test, the Chinese hamster bone marrow cell sister 
chromatid exchange (SCE
) test, the male rat 
dominant lethal tests nor the rat micronucleus test. 
 
Dietary administration of nabilone up to 4 
mg/kg/day (about 6 times the recommended maximum 
human dose based on body surface area) was found to
 have no effect on fe
rtility and reproductive 
performance of male and female rats.  
 Pregnancy: Teratogenic Eff
ects. Pregnancy Category C 
Teratology studies conducted in 
pregnant rats at doses up to 12 mg/kg/day (about 16 times the human 
dose on a body surface area basis) and in pregnant ra
bbits at doses up to 3.3 mg/kg/day (about 9 times 
the human dose on a body surface area basis) did not 
disclose any evidence for a teratogenic potential 
of nabilone. However, there was dos
e related developmental toxicity in both species as evidenced by 
increases in embryo lethality, fetal resorptions, decreased fetal weights and pregnancy disruptions. In 

rats, postnatal developmental toxicity was also ob
served. There are no adequate and well-controlled 
studies in pregnant women. Becau
se animal studies cannot rule out
 the possibility of harm, Cesamet 
should be used during pregnancy only if the potential 
benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus.   NDA 18-677/S-011 Page 9 
 Nursing Mothers 
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in
 breast milk. Because many
 drugs including some 
cannabinoids are excreted in breast milk it is not
 recommended that Cesame
t be given to nursing 
mothers. 
Pediatric Use 
Safety and effectiveness have not been established in
 patients younger than 18 years of age. Caution is 
recommended in prescribing Cesamet to children because of psychoactive effects. 
Geriatric Use 
Clinical studies of Cesamet did not include suff
icient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to 
determine whether they respond differently from youn
ger subjects. In general, dose selection for an 
elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at
 the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the 
greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or ca
rdiac function, and of conc
omitant disease or other 
drug therapy. Cesamet should be used with caution 
in elderly patients aged 65 and over because they 
are generally more sensitive to the psychoactive effects of drugs and Cesamet can elevate supine and 
standing heart rates and cause postural hypotension. 
Adverse Reactions 
Commonly Encountered Reactions:
 During controlled clinical trials of Cesamet, virtually all patients 
experienced at least one adverse 
reaction.  The most commonly enc
ountered events were drowsiness, 
vertigo, dry mouth, euphoria (feeling ﬁhighﬂ), ataxia, headache, and concentration difficulties. 

 Comparative Incidence of Reactions
: Accurate estimates of the incidence of adverse events 
associated with the use of any drug are difficult to 
obtain. Estimates are influenced by factors such as 
drug dose, detection technique, setting, and physician judgments, among others. Consequently, the 

tables presented below are presented solely to indicate the relative frequency of adverse events 

reported in representative c
ontrolled clinical studies 
conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 
Cesamet under relatively similar c
onditions of use. The figures cited cannot be used to predict 
precisely the incidence of untoward events in the c
ourse of usual medical pr
actice, in which patient 
characteristics and other factors may differ from those that prevailed in the clinical trials. These 

incidence figures also cannot be compared with 
those obtained from other c
linical studies involving 
related drug products because each group of drug tria
ls is conducted under a diffe
rent set of conditions.  
Finally, it is important to emphasize that these ta
bulations do not reflect the 
relative severity and/or 
clinical importance of the adverse events. A better pe
rspective on the serious adverse events associated 
with the use of Cesamet is provided in the 
WARNINGS
 and PRECAUTIONS 
sections.   The following tables list in order of decreasing 
frequency the adverse reactions encountered by a 
substantial proportion of pa
tients treated with Cesa
met participating in re
presentative controlled 
clinical trials. 
 NDA 18-677/S-011 Page 10 
 Incidence of Adverse Reaction
s in Placebo-Controlled Studies
  Nabilone (n=132) Placebo (n=119) 
Adverse Event
 Patients Percent Patients Percent 
Vertigo 69 52 3 3 
Drowsiness 69 52 6 5 
Dry Mouth 47 36 2 2 

Ataxia 19 14 0 0 

Euphoria 14 11 1 1 

Sleep Disturbance 14 11 1 1 

Dysphoria 12 9 0 0 
Headache 8 6 0 0 
Nausea 5 4 0 0 

Disorientation 3 2 0 0 

Depersonalization 2 2 1 1 
 Incidence of Adverse Reactions in Active-Controlled Studies
  Nabilone 
(n=250) 
Prochlorperazine 
(n=232) 
Adverse Event
 Patients Percent Patients Percent 
Drowsiness 165 66 108 47 
Vertigo/Dizziness 147 59 53 23 
Euphoria 95 38 12 5 

Dry Mouth 54 22 11 5 

Depression 35 14 37 16 

Ataxia 32 13 4 2 
Visual Disturbance 32 13 9 4 
Concentration Difficulties 31 12 3 1 

Hypotension 20 8 3 1 

Asthenia 19 8 10 4 

Anorexia 19 8 22 9 
Headache 18 7 14 6 
Sedation 7 3 2 1 

Increased Appetite 6 2 2 1 
 Adverse Reactions by Body SystemŠ
The
 following list of adverse events is organized by 
decreasing frequency within body systems for patients treated with Cesamet in controlled 
clinical trials. All events are listed regardless of causality assessment. 
Blood and HematopoieticŠ
Anemia 
Cardiovascular
ŠOrthostatic
 hypotension, hypotension, tachycardia, syncope, palpitation, 
flushing, hypertension, arrhythmia, and cerebral vascular accident.
 Eye and EarŠ
Vision
 disturbance, ear tightness, eye irritation, eye dryness, equilibrium 
dysfunction, tinnitus, eye disorder, amblyopia, eye swelling, eyelid diseases, pupil dilation, 
photophobia, and visual field defect.
 Gastrointestinal
ŠDry mouth, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, 
constipation, aphthous ulcer, mouth irritation, gastritis, and dyspepsia.
 Genitourinary
ŠIncreased urination, decreased urination, hot flashes, urinary retention, 
and frequency of micturition.
 Infection
ŠBacterial infection
 Metabolic and Endocrine
ŠThirst MusculoskeletalŠ
Muscle
 pain, back pain, neck pain, joint pain, and unspecified pain.
  NDA 18-677/S-011 Page 11 
 Nervous System
ŠDrowsiness
, vertigo, ataxia, decreased concentration, sedation, 
hallucinations, paresthesia, tremor, memory disturbance, perception disturbance, 
convulsions, dystonia, numbness, and akathisia.
 PsychiatricŠ
Euphoria
 (feeling ﬁhighﬂ), sleep disturbance, depression, confusion, 
disorientation, anxiety, depersonalization syndrome, speech disorder, abnormal dreams, 
insomnia, mood swings, inebriated feeling, toxic psychosis, paranoia, apathy, thought 
disorder, withdrawal, panic disorder, phobic neurosis, emotional disorder, and 
hyperactivity.
 Respiratory
ŠDyspnea, pharyngitis, nasal conges
tion, sinus headache, thick t
ongue, dry 
throat, dry nose, wheezing, nosebleed, cough, voice change, and chest pain.
 Skin and AppendagesŠ
Anhidrosis, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, and allergic reactions.
 Miscellaneous and Ill-Defined ConditionsŠ
Headache, fatigue, lightheadedness, 
coordination disturbance, asthesia, dysphoria, dizziness, taste change, excessive appetite, 
chills, excessive sweating, nervousness, malaise, postural dizziness, twitch, irritability, 
fever, inhibited walking, unconsciousness, hypotonia, and impaired urination. 
Postmarketing Adverse Reactions
ŠCesamet
 has been marketed internationally since 1982. 
The following adverse reactions listed in order of 
decreasing frequency by body system have been 
reported since Cesamet has been marketed. All events are listed regardless of causality 
assessment. Blood and HematopoieticŠ
Leukopenia 
CardiovascularŠHypotension and tachycardia 
Eye and EarŠVisual disturbances 
GastrointestinalŠ
Dry
 mouth, nausea, vomiting, and constipation 
Nervous SystemŠ
Hallucinations, CNS depression, CNS stimulation, ataxia, stupor, vertigo, 
convulsion, and circumoral paresthesia 
PsychiatricŠ
Somnolence, confusion, euphoria, depression, dysphoria, depersonalization, anxiety, 
psychosis, and emotional lability 
Miscellaneous and Ill-Defined ConditionsŠ
Dizziness
, headache, insomnia, abnormal thinking, 
chest pain, lack of effect, and face edema 
 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 
Controlled Substance Š Cesamet, a synthetic 
cannabinoid pharmacologically related to 
Cannabis 
sativa L. 
(Marijuana; (delta-9-THC) is 
a highly abusable substance.
 Cesamet is 
controlled under Schedule II (CII) of the Controlled 
Substances Act. Prescriptions fo
r Cesamet should be limited to the 
amount necessary for a single cycle of chemothe
rapy (i.e., a few days).  Cesamet may produce 
subjective side effects which may be
 interpreted as a euphoria or mar
ijuana-like "high" at therapeutic 
doses. 
 
It is not known what proportion of individuals ex
posed chronically to Cesamet or other cannabinoids 
will develop either psychological or physical de
pendence. Long term use of these compounds has, 
however, been associated with disorders of motiva
tion, judgment, and cognition.  It is not clear, 
though, if this is a manifestation of the underlying 
personalities of chronic users of this class of drugs 
or if cannabinoids are directly re
sponsible for these effects. An ab
stinence syndrome has been reported 
following discontinuation of delta-9-THC at high 
doses of 200 mg per day for 12 to 16 consecutive 
days.  The acute phase was characterized by psyc
hic distress, insomnia, and signs of autonomic 
hyperactivity (sweating, rhinorrhea, loose stools, 
hiccups). A protracted abstinence phase may have 
occurred in subjects who reported sleep distur
bances for several weeks after delta-9-THC 
discontinuation.  NDA 18-677/S-011 Page 12 
  
Abuse Š Cesamet may produce subjective si
de effects that may be interpreted as a euphoria or 
marijuana-like "high" at therapeutic doses. 
 Cesamet was shown to be qualitatively and quantitatively 
similar to approved oral delta-9-THC
 in the production of cannabis-like 
effects, thus demonstrating its 
potential for abuse. 
 
Preclinical studies performed in both dogs and monke
ys demonstrated that 
Cesamet was cannabinoid-
like. As with delta-9-THC, tolerance develops rapi
dly to the pharmacological effects in both the dog 
and the monkey. Cross-tolerance be
tween Cesamet and delta-9-THC wa
s demonstrated in the monkey. 
 
Dependence Š 
The physical dependence capacity of Cesa
met is unknown at this time. Patients who 
participated in clinical trials of up to 5 days' duration evidenced no withdrawal symptoms on cessation 

of dosing. 

 OVERDOSAGE 
Signs and Symptoms
 - Signs and symptoms of overdosage are an extension of the psychotomimetic 
and physiologic effects of Cesamet. 
Treatment
 - To obtain up-to-date information about the treatment of overdose, a good resource is 
your certified Regional Poison Control Center. Telephone numbers of certified poison control 

centers are listed in the Physicians' Desk Reference (PDR).  In managing overdosage, consider the 

possibility of multiple drug overdoses, interacti
on among drugs, and unusual drug kinetics in your 
patient. 
Overdosage may be considered to have occurred, even at prescribed dosages, if disturbing 
psychiatric symptoms are present. In these cases, the patient should be observed in a quiet 

environment and supportive measures, including reassurance, should be used. Subsequent doses 

should be withheld until patients have returned to their baseline mental status; routine dosing may 

then be resumed if clinically indicated. In such instances, a lower initiating dose is suggested. In 

controlled clinical trials, alterations in mental status related to the use of Cesamet resolved within 
72 hours without specific medical therapy. 
In overdose settings, attention should be paid to vital signs, since both hypertension and 
hypotension have been known to occur; tachycardia and orthostatic hypotension were most 
commonly reported. 
No cases of overdosage with more than 10 mg/day of
 nabilone were reported during clinical trials. 
Signs and symptoms that would be expected to occur in large overdose situations are psychotic 
episodes, including hallucinations, anxiety reactions, respiratory depression, and coma. 
If psychotic episodes occur, the patient should be managed conservatively, if possible. For 
moderate psychotic episodes and anxiety reactions, verbal support and comforting may be 

sufficient. In more severe cases, antipsychotic drugs may be useful; however, the utility of 

antipsychotic drugs in cannabinoid psychosis has not been systematically evaluated. Support for 

their use is drawn from limited experience using antipsychotic agents to manage cannabis 

overdoses. Because of the potential for drug-drug interactions (e.g., additive CNS depressant effects 
due to nabilone and chlorpromazine), such patients should be closely monitored. 
Protect the patient's airway and support ventila
tion and perfusion. Meticulously monitor and 
maintain, within acceptable limits, the patient's vital signs, blood gases, serum electrolytes, as well 
 NDA 18-677/S-011 Page 13 
 as other laboratory values and physical assessments. Absorption of drugs from the gastrointestinal 

tract may be decreased by giving activated charcoal, which, in many cases, is more effective than 

emesis or lavage; consider charcoal instead of or in addition to gastric emptying. Repeated doses of 

charcoal over time may hasten elimination of some drugs that have been absorbed.  Safeguard the 
patient's airway when employing gastric emptying or charcoal. 
The use of forced diuresis, peritoneal dialysis, hemodialysis, charcoal hemoperfusion, or 
cholestyramine has not been reported. In the presence of normal renal function, most of a dose of 
nabilone is eliminated through the biliary system. 
Treatment for respiratory depression and comatose state consists in symptomatic and supportive 
therapy. Particular attention should be paid to the occurrence of hypothermia. If the patient becomes 
hypotensive, consider fluids, inotropes, and/or vasopressors. 
The estimated oral median lethal dose in female mice is between 1,000 and 2,000 mg/kg; in the 
female rat, it is greater than 2,000 mg/kg,   (See 
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY
). 
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 
The usual adult dosage is 1 or 2 mg b.i.d. On the day of chemotherapy, the initial dose should be 
given 1 to 3 hours before the chemotherapeutic agent is administered. To minimize side effects, it is 

recommended that the lower starting dose be used and that the dose be increased as necessary. A 

dose of 1 or 2 mg the night before may be useful. The maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg 
given in divided doses t.i.d. 
Cesamet may be administered 2 
or 3 times daily during the entire course of each cycle of 
chemotherapy and, if needed, for 48 hours after the last dose of each cycle of chemotherapy. 
HOW SUPPLIED 
CesametŽ capsules (purple and white): 1 mg (bottles of 20 capsules) NDC 0187-0247-01. Capsules 
will be imprinted with Valeant on the white body and a four-digit code (0247) on the purple cap. 

Store at controlled room temperature, 25ºC (77ºF); excursions permitted to 15-30ºC (59-86ºF) 
[see USP Controlled Room Temperature].  
Rx only 
Revised:  May 2006
 Part No. 12-1391    Valeant Pharmaceuticals International 

3300 Hyland Avenue 

Costa Mesa, CA 92626, USA 

(877) 361-2719    