Google Tag ManagerSkip to main content                                Shop   Contact us   Dementia professionals             Dementia Connect support line   0333 150 3456     Dementia Connect support line    Contact our Dementia Connect support line for information, support and advice.
 0333 150 3456             Search          Donate now             About dementia    Five things you should know about dementia Worried about memory problems?
 The dementia guide - get your copy Guide for carers - get your copy   Types of dementia   What is dementia?
 Alzheimer's disease   Vascular dementia   Frontotemporal dementia   More...
 Symptoms and diagnosis   Diagnosis   How dementia progresses   Symptoms   The later stages of dementia   More...
 Treatments   Drugs   Alternative therapies   Talking therapies   Person-centred care   More...     Risk factors and prevention   How to reduce your risk of dementia   The genetics of dementia   Risk factors you can't change   More...        Get support    Coronavirus support Find support near you Publications and factsheets Your support services Online community Dementia together magazine   Daily living   Eating and drinking   Washing and bathing   Toilet problems and continence   More...     Help with care   Hospital care   Finding a care home   Carers: looking after yourself   End of life care   Health and social care professionals   More...
 Staying independent   Keeping active and involved   Driving   Equipment, adaptations and improvements to the home   Using technology to help with everyday life   More...     Legal and financial   Paying for care   Benefits   Lasting power of attorney   Deprivation of Liberty Safeguards   More...        Get involved    Donate   Make a donation   Give in celebration   Ways to give in memory   Give a gift in your Will   The Big Win Lottery   More...     Events and fundraising   Join an event   Organise your own fundraising   Fundraising at work   Request your fundraising pack   More...     Campaign with us   Coronavirus campaigns   Fix Dementia Care   Wales   Northern Ireland   More...     Volunteer   Ways to volunteer   Support our dementia services   Take part in Dementia voice opportunities   More...     Dementia Friendly Communities   Making your community dementia friendly   Dementia teaching resources   Make your organisation more dementia friendly   Training and consultancy   More...        Research    Current projects Risk factors and treatments - we discuss evidence Care and cure magazine News for researchers   Our research   Why do we fund research?
 Research we are funding   How do we fund research?
 More...     Get involved in research   Join Dementia Research   Our Research Network volunteers   What’s it like to take part in research?
 More...     For researchers   Our grant rounds   Deadlines for grant rounds   Other support for researchers   More...        About us    Contact us Who we are How your money helps Working for us Wales Northern Ireland   Our dementia programmes   Engagement and Participation   Personal Choice Programme   Carer Information and Support Programme   More...     Our people   Trustees   Vice-Presidents, Patrons and Ambassadors   Celebrity Supporters   More...     Policy and influencing   What we think   National policies   All-Party Parliamentary Group on Dementia   More...     News and media   Read our blog   Latest news   Our spokespeople   Audio and video   More...          See menu     Support line        Search                    Home   About dementia           Aluminium, metals and dementia                          Aluminium, metals and dementia        The ability of metals from food or cookware to cause Alzheimer's disease is a regular concern in the news.
 Here's the evidence behind the presence of metals such as copper, zinc, iron and aluminium.
 Can certain metals increase my risk of developing dementia?
 At present, there is no strong evidence to support the fears that coming in to contact with metals through using equipment or through food or water increases your risk of developing Alzheimer's disease.
 However, there are many other metals that are present naturally in the brain.
 What does the research say?
 The current research shows that there is likely to be a relationship between naturally-occurring metals and the development or progression of Alzheimer's disease.
 But the evidence doesn't yet show whether this relationship actually causes Alzheimer's disease.
 It is also unclear whether reducing metals in the brain via drugs or reducing our exposure would have any effect.
 These metals are essential to the healthy function of our brain, so further research into changes before or during disease development is also necessary to understand if reducing the amount in the brain would actually be beneficial.
 Dementia research volunteering    Take part in our research to help us fight dementia.
 Learn more about what's involved.
 Find out more         Metals and the body Naturally-occurring metals and Alzheimer's disease Metals such as zinc, copper and iron are present naturally in our bodies.
 Small amounts of these metals are essential to keeping our brains and bodies working properly.
 They are involved in many different processes including energy production, the movement of oxygen and the creation and management of many important molecules in the body.
 Metals within food Along with these essential metals, there are other metals that we are exposed to through things such as food.
 The body is able to tolerate these metals in small amounts by clearing through the kidneys.
 These include aluminium and lead, for example it has been shown that if they are not taken out by the kidneys through organ failure or by exposure to extremely high doses these metals are able to deposit in the brain.
 These metals are known to cause negative effects in the brain and have been implicated in several neurological conditions.
 Copper, zinc and iron Copper has been the most extensively studied of the natural metals in the brain, but there have also been several studies on exposure to excess zinc and iron among others.
 High levels of iron were first reported in the brains of people with Alzheimer's disease in 1953.
 Since that time it has been shown that iron, as well as zinc and copper are associated with the hallmark Alzheimer's proteins amyloid and tau in the brain.
 These hallmark proteins appear as clumps called amyloid plaques and tau tangles in the brains of people with Alzheimer's and are thought to cause damage.
 Laboratory experiments using cells in a dish or animal models have shown that copper, zinc and iron can cause the development of these plaques and tangles.
 However, this doesn't necessarily mean they cause disease.
 Zinc has actually been shown to reduce the toxic effect of the amyloid plaques by changing the amyloid proteins into a shape that is less harmful to the brain.
 Reactive oxygen species Copper and iron, but not zinc, have also been implicated in the development of something called 'reactive oxygen species' (ROS) in the brain.
 These are oxygen molecules that have been altered by a chemical reaction.
 Increased levels are known to be damaging, contributing to cell ageing and death.
 This is why antioxidants, which can clear up these ROS, are thought to be beneficial to general health.
 ROS are believed to be an early contributor to the mechanisms underlying Alzheimer's disease development.
 Increased levels have been seen in the brains of people with Alzheimer's and toxic amyloid has been shown to increase ROS production.
 Conversely, zinc has been shown to protect against ROS by binding to amyloid protein in the place of copper, which reduces the creation of these reactive oxygen species.
 The management of the levels of these and other naturally occurring metals is very tightly controlled by the body.
 It is not yet clear if the increase in metals seen in the brains of people with Alzheimer's causes the disease.
 However, it does appear that there is a relationship between the naturally occurring metals and Alzheimer's disease.
 Aluminium In 1965, researchers found that rabbits injected with an extremely high dose of aluminium developed toxic tau tangles in their brains.
 This led to speculation that aluminium from cans, cookware, processed foods and even the water supply could be causing dementia.
 The ability of this high dose aluminium to induce tau tangles, increase amyloid levels and contribute to the development of plaques has been shown in laboratory experiments on animals.
 Importantly, these results were only seen with extremely high exposures that far exceed the levels that can enter the body through food or potentially through contact with aluminium cookware.
 Since this study was reported, much research has been done on the relationship of aluminium and Alzheimer's disease.
 As yet no study or group of studies has been able to confirm that aluminium is involved in the development of Alzheimer's disease.
 Aluminium is seen in the normal, healthy brain.
 It is not clear how aluminium is getting into the brain from the blood.
 The levels currently seen in peoples brains hasn't been shown to be toxic but an ageing brain may be less able to process the aluminium.
 Although aluminium has been seen in amyloid plaques there is no solid evidence that aluminium is increased in the brains of people with Alzheimer's disease.
 No convincing relationship between amount of exposure or aluminium in the body and the development of Alzheimer's disease has been established.
 Aluminium in food and drink is in a form that is not easily absorbed in to the body.
 Hence the amount taken up is less than 1% of the amount present in food and drink.
 Most of the aluminium taken into the body is cleaned out by the kidneys.
 Studies of people who were treated with contaminated dialysis have shown an increase in the amount of aluminium in the brain.
 This was believed to be as a result of inadequately monitored dialysis which then led to encephalopathy related dementia.
 Methods of dialysis have since been improved and doctors are better able to predict and prevent this form of dementia.
 One large recent study did find a potential role for high dose aluminium in drinking water in progressing Alzheimer's disease for people who already have the disease.
 However, multiple other small and large scale studies have failed to find a convincing causal association between aluminium exposure in humans and Alzheimer's disease.
 Treatments The idea that metals could be contributing to Alzheimer's disease has led researchers to study the effects of drugs which remove or inactivate metals in the brain on disease progression.
 To date, several different drugs have been trialled to see if they can remove excess copper or zinc from the brain or the amyloid plaques.
 Many of these drugs have shown positive results in human trials on either reducing plaques and/or cognitive decline.
 However, as yet, none of these drugs have been approved for use in people due to significant side effects such as severe headaches, renal failure, or life threatening low calcium, among others.
 Research in to this potential treatment is ongoing.
 Think this page could be useful to someone?
 Share it:                          Categories   Risk Factors                Further reading    What kind of information would you like to read?Use the button below to choose between help, advice and real stories.
 Decide what you see     Choose one or more options       Information       Advice       News       Real stories       Research       Support us       Dementia directory    We will remember your selection for future visits; you can change your choices at any time                   Sign up to get twice-monthly e-newsletter updates from Alzheimer’s Society.
 You can change what you receive at any time and we will never sell your details to third parties.
 Here’s our Privacy Policy.
 Useful links   Jobs   Working for us   Contact us   Publications and factsheets   Training and conferences   Blog   Legal information   Modern slavery   Website accessibility    Report a website problem            Facebook     Twitter     Instagram     Youtube                     All content © 2020 Alzheimer's Society.
 Registered office at Alzheimer's Society, 43-44 Crutched Friars, London, EC3N 2AE Alzheimer's Society is a registered Charity No.
 296645.
 Registered as a company limited by guarantee and registered in England No.
