In a statement, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called the conference a “long-awaited and hugely important push for peace.” The Geneva talks, if all goes as planned, will be the first meeting since violence began in 2011 between representatives from Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s government and those from the Syrian National Coalition.
 While most of the world’s attention will be on the Syrian representatives, Russia, and the United States, China will also find itself in the new and rather uncomfortable position of international peace broker.In preparation for the Geneva II talks, Wang Yi put forward a five-point proposal for the Syria conflict.
 In a press conference on Monday, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei elaborated on the proposal.
 The five points are as follows:1.
 There must be a political settlement to the Syria conflict2.
 Syria’s fate “must be decided by its own people”Diplomat BriefWeekly NewsletterNGet briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.Get the Newsletter   3.
 The political transition process must be “inclusive”Enjoying this article?
 Click here to subscribe for full access.
 Just $5 a month.4.
 Syria must achieve “national reconciliation and unity”5.
 The international community should provide humanitarian assistance to Syria and its neighborsThis proposal follows China’s general stance on Syria: both anodyne and vague.
 The fourth point, achieving “national reconciliation” is especially notable for being both unobjectionable and practically impossible.
 It is true that China has few specific interests in Syria — unlike Russia, for example, China doesn’t have significant political ties to Bashar al-Assad’s government.
 In terms of trade, in 2012 China-Syria trade was worth $1.2 billion, a 50 percent decrease over 2011 rates.
 Chinese exports to Syria accounted for $1.1 billion of the total, underlining the fact that goods imported from Syria play virtually no role in China’s economy.This is not to say that China has no interest in the way the Syria dispute is handled.
 Rather, China’s interests are general rather than specific.
 For example, China has a definite interest in making sure the Syria conflict does not spill over to affect the broader Middle East — an interest shared among all the major players in the Geneva II conference.
 Violence from Syria, which is largely based along the Sunni-Shi’ite schism, has already spilled over into Lebanon and Iraq.
 Further escalation could begin to disrupt trade within the region as a whole, a potential disaster for China given that over half of its oil imports come from the Middle East.On an even broader scale, China would like to prevent external political interference in the Syria conflict.
 China quickly came to regret its decision not to veto a UN Security Council resolution allowing for the establishment of “no-fly zone” over Libya.
 To Beijing, the ensuing Western-led campaign turned into an overt (but UN-sanctioned) attempt at regime change — something China would never have allowed.
 China will not make the same mistake again, and thus will prevent any UN action in Syria beyond providing  humanitarian aid and fostering dialogue.
 To this end, China has joined with Russia to veto Western-backed UN resolutions that would have placed sanctions on the al-Assad regime.
 The need to avoid “external imposition of political solutions” is underscored  in China’s five-point peace proposal and indeed may be China’s main interest in the conflict at this point.For example, China had nothing but harsh words for the United States’ threat to strike the al-Assad regime for alleged chemical weapons use.
 An op-ed  in the Global Times suggested that, if China was vocal enough about opposing “the Western strike,” it could “help consolidate trust from some other countries.”  In other words, Beijing should burnish its international image not by putting forth its own peace proposal, but by attacking the United States’ plan of action.
 This reactionary foreign policy strategy has been a hallmark of China’s reaction to the Syria crisis.On the flip side, China also responds enthusiastically to proposals it agrees with.
 Once a plan was in place to destroy Syria’s chemical weapons stockpiles, China praised the resolution and even sent a ship to escort the mission.
 Again, China left the decision-making and negotiations largely to the U.S. and Russia, but jumped in to offer its assistance in order to be seen as a productive global player.China’s stance on Syria suggests that Beijing does not want to be a global superpower in the image of the United States.
 China’s foreign policy stance is built on the platform of non-interference, meaning China will almost never put forth actual policy suggestions for handling what it views as other countries’ domestic issues.
 On everything from North Korea’s nuclear tests to ongoing violence in Syria, China’s Foreign Ministry will do little more than call for restraint.
 China simply has no interest in playing world-policeman, and even less of an interest in humanitarian intervention.Yin Gang, an expert on the Middle East at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, told Sky News that the Syria conflict “is ‘inside Islam.’” “Without external interventions,” he added, these “kind[s] of conflicts will reach a new balance in a short period of time.
 But if external powers intervene, the conflicts will become messier and messier.” This is China’s policy in a nut-shell when it comes to intrastate violence: don’t get involved.Enjoying this article?
 Click here to subscribe for full access.
 Just $5 a month.Even in the case of Sudan, where China has a fundamental interest in maintaining oil production, Beijing was most comfortable with a hands-off approach in dealing with that civil war.
 When the conflict seemingly came to an end with the establishment of South Sudan as a separate country, Beijing recognized the new nation and hoped to continue business as usual.
 Now that new outbreaks of violence are preventing this, China is promoting peace talks — but still retains its commitment to “non-interference in others’ internal affairs.”China will keep to the same foreign policy path when it comes to Syria, where it has much less at stake.
 Beijing will continue to prioritize non-interference, especially preventing meddling from U.S.-led Western powers, over humanitarian intervention.
 China prefers a “wait and see” approach to other countries’ internal conflicts.
 AuthorsStaff AuthorShannon TiezziShannon Tiezzi is Editor at The Diplomat.
 View ProfileTagsChina PowerChina foreign policyGeneva II Conferencenon-interferenceSyria civil war     COVID-19In AsiaCNovember 04, 2020South Korea’s Flu Vaccine Deaths Preview COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution ChallengesOctober 30, 2020India’s Toughest COVID-19 Test Still Lies AheadOctober 30, 2020China’s ‘Secret Weapon’ Against COVID-19 Won’t Work for Post-Pandemic Economic RecoveryMultimediaMOctober 29, 2020Denuclearization, Diplomacy, and Beyond: North Korea Plans for 2021October 20, 2020The Pandemic and Power Shifts in AsiaOctober 15, 2020Protesters Again Fill the Streets of BangkokInterviewINovember 06, 2020China and the World: Can China Lead?By Jongsoo LeeAn interview with William Kirby on China's ambitions, soft power, and education.
 MagazineMNovember 01, 2020What’s Next for Kyrgyzstan?November 01, 2020Vietnam’s Virtual Charm OffensiveNovember 01, 2020Can India Decouple From China?November 01, 2020The State of Democracy in AsiaDRI | COVID-19 IN ASIAPresented by Diplomat Risk IntelligenceNovember 04, 2020South Korea’s Flu Vaccine Deaths Preview COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution ChallengesBy Justin FendosThe public panic over flu vaccine safety highlights the potential problems facing a COVID-19 vaccine.October 30, 2020India’s Toughest COVID-19 Test Still Lies AheadBy Soma BasuWinter smog, religious festivals and election campaigns pose a crucial test of India’s pandemic management.October 30, 2020China’s ‘Secret Weapon’ Against COVID-19 Won’t Work for Post-Pandemic Economic RecoveryBy Zhuoran LiThe CCP was able to mobile its people to fight COVID-19.
 It's having a harder time convincing Chinese to spend money.October 28, 2020Kathmandu Celebrates Dashain Uneasily Amid COVID-19By Peter GillFrom finances to family gatherings, the pandemic reshaped all aspects of one of Nepal’s most prominent holidays.RelatedRJanuary 21, 2015Time to Rethink Chinese DiplomacyBy Yang Hengjun Unless China can gain the world's trust, its rise won't get much farther.June 06, 2014In South Sudan Conflict, China Tests Its Mediation SkillsBy Shannon TiezziDriven by commercial interests, China is taking the unusual step of mediating between rival South Sudanese factions.October 07, 2020No, China Doesn’t Think Decades Ahead in Its DiplomacyBy Andreea BrînzăChina’s foreign policy reflects short or medium term planning, far from the myth of generational or centennial timelines.September 12, 2020China’s Two-Pronged DiplomacyBy Brian WongA charm offensive or wolf warrior diplomacy?
 Both, actually, are a key part of China's diplomatic strategy.FeaturesFNovember 07, 2020Can the UK Achieve Its Naval Ambitions in the Indo-Pacific?By Ian StoreyThe Royal Navy is sending its aircraft carrier to the Pacific.
 What comes next will be far more telling.November 06, 2020The Return of Militancy in PakistanBy Muhammad Akbar NotezaiAfter a few years of relative peace, militant groups are on the rise again – and at a dangerous time for Pakistan.November 05, 2020The PLA’s AI CompetitionsBy Marcus ClayCan the new design contests foster a culture of military innovation in China?November 04, 2020Myanmar’s Election Marks a Step Away From PeaceBy Ben DunantSunday's vote will likely deliver a government with a strong popular mandate – a rarity in mainland Southeast Asia – but ethnic minorities will be left out in the cold.DRI | APAC Risks, AnalyzedDRINovember 04, 2020What Lies Ahead for US Foreign Policy After the Elections?By Abhijnan RejThe close race indicates lasting shifts in American politics which will spill over to U.S. international engagements.November 04, 2020China’s Fifth Plenum: Old Goals and Shifting PrioritiesBy Tristan KenderdineThere's much more than technoindustrial policy in China’s Fifth Plenum communique, especially when compared to the 2015 outcomes.October 29, 2020Denuclearization, Diplomacy, and Beyond: North Korea Plans for 2021By Ankit PandaKim Jong Un’s year did not go as planned.
 What lies ahead for the Korean Peninsula?October 28, 2020What Can Taiwan’s Semiconductor Industry Learn From Japan?By Gary Xie and Sophie GrantTaiwan’s semiconductor industry will require major restructuring if it wishes to maintain its competitive edge in the crowded global market.BlogsBNovember 07, 2020India and the Philippines Must Focus on Climate Change and Disaster ManagementBy Abhijnan RejGreater cooperation and dialogue around softer issues will pave way for greater strategic cooperation.November 07, 2020Pakistan Peoples Party Leader Disavows Nawaz Sharif Comments About the ArmyBy Abhijnan RejWith this latest development, the future of the 11 opposition parties’ alliance looks bleak.November 07, 2020Lam Says Next US President Should Not Interfere in Hong KongBy Associated PressDuring a visit to Beijing, Hong Kong's leader denounced U.S. sanctions targeting the national security law.November 07, 2020In India, Polluted Air Spells Trouble for Virus PatientsBy Associated PressAir pollution in parts of New Delhi has climbed to levels around nine times what the World Health Organization considers safe.
 Regions  Central Asia East Asia Oceania South Asia Southeast Asia    Topics  Diplomacy Economy Environment Opinion Politics Security Society     Blogs  ASEAN Beat Asia Defense Asia Life China Power Crossroads Asia Flashpoints Oceania Pacific Money The Debate The Koreas The Pulse Tokyo Report Trans-Pacific View     More  Features Interviews Photo Essays Podcasts Risk Intelligence Videos     Archives  A New Japan By Other Means APAC Insider Asia Scope China, What's Next?
 Indian Decade James Holmes New Emissary New Leaders Forum Sport &amp; Culture Tech Biz Tokyo Notes Zachary Keck      The Diplomat  About Us Contact Us Write for Us  Partners  Advertise  Syndicate  Privacy Policy Newsletters Subscriptions     Magazine      November 2020 The State of Democracy in Asia
