Senator Jeanne
 Shaheen, along with ten other freshmen Democratic Senators, today introduced a
 package of amendments that will broaden and accelerate efforts to encourage
 innovation and lower costs for consumers across the nation's health care
 system.
 The Freshmen Innovation and Value package, which has been endorsed by
 some of the nation's leading business, consumer and health provider
 organizations, including Business Roundtable, AARP, AFL-CIO, New America
 Foundation, and others.
 In New Hampshire, these cost containment
 provisions have been endorsed by the Dartmouth Hitchcock Health System and New
 Hampshire Voices for Health.
 The Freshmen Innovation and Value package
 would amend the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act currently under
 consideration by the Senate.
 "We know that more care isn't better
 care, that higher costs don't result in better outcomes, and that cost
 containment is essential to every bottom line-whether it's the bottom line of a
 business, a household, a hospital, or our economy," said Shaheen.
 "These
 amendments build on the cost savings measures already included in the Senate
 bill, and will help make our nation's health care system work more
 effectively."
 "As a small business owner, I'm thankful to
 know that Senator Shaheen and her colleagues are continuing their work to find
 ways to lower costs and improve health outcomes in the health care system.
 In particular we are excited to see that Senator Shaheen and her
 colleagues are submitting legislation that will invest in technology by
 modernizing current data collection systems and establish standards for health
 care financial transactions.
 This effort will lead to reduction of costs to our
 nation by identifying fraud through smart technologies and enhancing reporting
 tools by which key decisions will be made.
 This package of amendments is
 extremely important to containing costs that have put an undue burden on small
 businesses," said Scott Baetz, founder and owner of SOS Computer
 Services in Windham, New Hampshire.
 Shaheen worked closely with her colleagues
 to draft the cost savings measures in the freshmen cost containment package,
 and she led the charge to include provisions on Accountable Care Organizations
 (ACO), a concept championed by Dr. Elliot Fisher of Dartmouth.
 The
 provision would allow ACOs - a group of providers held responsible for the
 quality and cost of health care for a population of Medicare beneficiaries - to
 work with private plans to align Medicare, Medicaid and private sector strategies
 for improving care.
 Doing so will maximize the effectiveness of quality
 improvement and reform initiatives and help ensure that all Americans receive
 high quality care, no matter how they are insured.
 And because ACO
 members are held jointly accountable for the care they provide, they share in
 any cost savings that stem from the quality gains.
 "The Accountable Care Organization
 shared savings concept would eliminate waste, reduce overuse and misuse of
 care, and support the development of health systems that can deliver high
 quality, affordable care," said Dr. James N. Weinstein, Director of The
 Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice.
 "From
 her support for shared decision-making to comparative effectiveness research
 and ACO's, Senator Shaheen has been a strong ally in looking for ways to reduce
 costs while improving care."
 Shaheen worked with Sens.
 Mark Begich
 (D-AK), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Roland Burris (D-IL), Kay Hagan (D-NC), Ted
 Kaufman (D-DE), Paul Kirk (D-MA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Mark Udall (D-NM), Tom
 Udall (D-CO) and Mark Warner (D-VA) to complete the Freshmen Innovation and
 Value package.
 Since Labor Day, the Senators have joined together on six
 occasions to deliver back-to-back Senate floor speeches on the need for
 commonsense health reform.
 The cost containment amendments strengthen the Senate's current health reform proposal by establishing public-private
 arrangements to better synchronize changes across medicine, with an eye towards
 preventing cost-shifting to others; eliminating red tape and fighting fraud,
 which drives-up costs; and compelling Medicare to become a leader in overall
 health reform by speeding the move toward a higher-value, lower-cost model for
 the future.
 A summary of the specific amendments
 follows: Working More
 Closely with the Private Sector on Cost Containment   These amendments transform payment
 systems and require the public and private sectors to move forward together on the
 shared goals of cost containment, improved quality, and delivery system reform.
 CMS Innovation Center:  We give the new Innovation Center explicit authority to
   work with private plans to align Medicare, Medicaid and private sector
   strategies for improving care.
 Independent Medicare Advisory Board:  We broaden the scope of the new Independent
   Medicare Advisory Board to look at total health system spending and make
   nonbinding, system-wide recommendations.
 Quality and Value in Private Insurance:  We require the Secretary to consult with
   relevant stakeholders to develop a methodology for measuring health plan
   value, which would include the cost, quality of care, efficiency,
   actuarial value of plans.
 Developing the tools to assess health plan
   value will help consumers and employers make better apples-to-apples
   comparisons when they shop for health insurance and get the best value for
   their health care dollar.
 Stepping-up the
 Commitment to Reduce Regulatory Barriers and Fight Fraud    These amendments require the U.S.
 Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to aggressively pursue streamlined
 regulations and anti-fraud initiatives to ensure that all sectors of the health
 care system work together to improve value.
 Administrative Simplification:  We require HHS to develop standards that will
   allow efficient electronic exchange and streamlining of information among
   patients, providers and insurers.
 Health Care Fraud Enforcement:  We direct HHS to better utilize technology to
   prevent health care fraud.
 Eliminating Legal Barriers to Care Improvement:  In tandem with this package, the freshman
   Senators will be requesting that the U.S. Government Accountability Office
   study current laws and regulations to identify barriers to implementing
   innovative delivery system reforms.
 We also will request that the
   U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission work together
   to provide clearer guidance to providers who wish to enter into innovative
   collaborative arrangements that promote patient-centered, high quality
   care.
 Aggressively Moving
 Toward Delivery System Reform   These amendments allow HHS to
 experiment with promising new models to further lower costs, increase quality
 and improve patient health.
 Value-Based Purchasing: We require Medicare to implement pay-for-performance
   for more providers sooner, adding hospices, ambulatory surgical centers,
   psychiatric hospitals and others.
 Broader Payment Innovation:  We allow a broader, more flexible transition to
   new payment models for Accountable Care Organizations (ACO).
 Medicare System Upgrades:  We require HHS to modernize data systems so that
   valuable Medicare data can be shared in a reliable, complete, and timely
   manner.
 Good Quality
 Everywhere: 
 We promote greater access to tele-health services, strengthen the provider
 workforce and the availability of high-quality hospital services to bolster
 health care access for Americans in underserved and rural regions.
 ]+)/.exec( ua ) || 					/(webkit)[ \/]([\w.
 ]+)/.exec( ua ) || 					/(opera)(?:.
 *version|)[ \/]([\w.
 ]+)/.exec( ua ) || 					/(msie) ([\w.
 Subscribers currently receiving electronic communications from this office who wish to unsubscribe may do so here.
 "https://ssl."
 : "http://www.
