Global Security, Privacy, &amp; Risk Management A Blog by Chris Mark  Home About Disclaimer Contributors Contact Articles &amp; News Rules   jump to navigation    					An Open Letter to Sarah Palin				January 21, 2016  Posted by Chris Mark in Uncategorized.
 Tags: Bristol, charity, Palin, PTSD, Recon, Sarah, sniper, Track, USMC, VA trackback  Dear Mrs. Palin, I am a former US Marine and US Navy Officer with a Combat Action Ribbon as well as service connected disabilities.
 I am also a Republican.
 I recently read your comments related to PTSD in which you attempted to excuse your son’s arrest on domestic abuse charges and firearm charges by referencing his supposed PTSD.
 Based upon your previous comments I am not surprised that you would choose to use this very serious condition as a political football and, once again, attempt to divert blame from your own family’s abhorrent, violent behavior.
 In 2014 your entire family was involved in a late night ‘drunken brawl’ at a party in which Track Palin (the accused domestic abuser) was involved in a bloody fight.
 While you publicly stated how proud you were at your children’s violent actions, maybe this should have been a sign that Track has a problem.
 It is certainly curious that you did not feel the need to reference his supposed PTSD in this situation and instead stated: “…my kids’ defense of family makes my heart soar!”  Maybe, instead of encouraging Track’s violence, you should have taken the opportunity to get him help.
 Maybe, instead of being the result of PTSD, your son was simply trying to uphold the stated Palin family values and “…make your heart soar” by abusing a woman.
 PTSD is stigmatized in the media and not well understood by the general public.
 An estimated 22 veterans commit suicide every day in the United States.
 This is nearly 8,000 veterans who take their lives every year.
 Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) stated: “Every day in the United States, 22 veterans succumb to suicide — losing their personal battle to invisible wounds of war.”   Veterans who have willingly given so much in service to their country should not have to bear the burden of being further stigmatized by your ignorant and foolish statements.
 While I do not propose to speak for all veterans, I am clearly not alone in my views regarding your unfortunate statements.
 They were unfortunate for the many veterans who face further disdain and discrimination based upon your inaccurate and ignorant portrayal of those who suffer with PTSD as well as the causes of the condition.
 While I would personally prefer that you simply avoid public life and simply fade away,  if you insist on trying to use your “celebrity status” for a cause, please educate yourself on the facts of PTSD and try to help veterans by using your significant influence in a more productive, and less political manner.
 There are a number of veteran’s organizations to which you can donate time, money and energy to make a difference.
 Two organizations you may want to consider is the Marine Reconnaissance Foundation and the Recon &amp; Sniper Foundation.
 Regards, Chris Mark   Share this:EmailFacebookTwitterLinkedInLike this:Like Loading...  Related  Comments»   	1.
 Kenneth Mayer - 	February 20, 2016    Very well said Brother &amp;welcome home ……thank you for your service Nam Vet…….68′-69′  Reply     		2.
 Sarah Palin Found Guilty Of Abuse Of Power | Aoksokunkanha - 	June 13, 2016    […] An Open Letter to Sarah Palin | Global Security, Privacy … – An Open Letter to Sarah Palin January 21, 2016 Posted by Chris Mark in Uncategorized.
 Tags: Bristol, charity, Palin, PTSD, Recon, Sarah, sniper, Track, USMC, VA […]  Reply     		3.	open when letter examplesnadezhda-by | nadezhda-by - 	July 31, 2016    […] An Open Letter to Sarah Palin An open letter american muslims -sex marriage, Update: listen episode bbc’ “world ” devoted reza aslan hasan minhaj’ letter.
 – ed.
 fellow american muslims,.
 […]  Reply     		4.	open when letter ideasnadezhda-by | nadezhda-by - 	July 31, 2016    […] An Open Letter to Sarah Palin […]  Reply     	5.
 Hubert Jubert - 	September 11, 2016    Thank you for your service  Reply     	6.
 Doris Shorback - 	September 14, 2017    Very well said.
 Let’s hope she sees it and listens.
 Reply     	7.
 Tim Allen - 	January 24, 2018    Well said, brother!
 Thank you for your service and welcome home!!
 Nam vet… U.S. Air Force 1970 – 1981  Reply      Chris Mark - 	January 31, 2018    Thank you for your service!
 Reply      « Older Comments      Leave a Reply Cancel reply   Enter your comment here...
 Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:                                Email (required) (Address never made public)    Name (required)    Website                 			You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
 ( Log Out /  				Change ) 			                 			You are commenting using your Google account.
 ( Log Out /  				Change ) 			                 			You are commenting using your Twitter account.
 ( Log Out /  				Change ) 			                 			You are commenting using your Facebook account.
 Notify me of new posts via email.
 search     Follow Me on Twitter Follow @ChrisAMark   Email Subscription  Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog!
 Join 1,873 other followers							    							Email Address:						           	     Sign me up!
 Search for:     Whitepapers &amp; Articles The Role of US Foreign oPlicy...  A Failed State of Security Maritime Deterrence Weapons &amp; Tactics Whitepaper  Geopolitical Context of Piracy  Why Regulation Cannot Prevent Cybercrime Balancing Security &amp; Convenience Roque Wave    Recent Posts   Yes, elections do have consequences   Marine Sniper’s review of the CAA MCK (Micro Conversion Kit)   NFAC’s “Grandmaster Jay”- John Jay Fitzgerald Johnson (2016 Presidential Candidate)    General  Chris Mark ACH Fraud Interview Chris Mark on CNN FeralJundi   Categories  competitive intelligence (2)  cyberespionage (13)  cybersecurity (46)  Data Breach (20)  Failed States (2)  Industry News (80)  InfoSec &amp; Privacy (73)  Laws and Leglslation (34)  News (17)  PCI DSS (10)  Piracy &amp; Maritime Security (69)  Politics (12)  privacy (3)  Risk &amp; Risk Management (74)  security theater (1)  terrorism (29)  Uncategorized (266)  United Nations (1)  weapons and tactics (26)    Tweets Error: Twitter did not respond.
 Please wait a few minutes and refresh this page.
 Stats      RSS    Feeds Full Comments     Blog at WordPress.com.
 Click to customize it.
 ","logInToExternalAccount":"Log in to use details from one of these accounts.
 Email check failed, please try again			  				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
