2   Nobody ever answers 
- ever gives the correct answer and it's the SEMASS 
incinerator, which is actually located off Cape Cod but we ship most of our 
trash to it. And so we're going to be having a forum looking at zero waste as 
option for the region and our speaker will be Neil Seldman from the Institute 
of Local Self
-Reliance from Washington D.C.
   He's a nationally renowned expert on the topic. And he'll be looking what can 
be done on Cape Cod to increase recycling, increase compo
sting, increase 
reuse and reduce the amount of material that has to either be land filled or 
incinerated.
  
 Tonight's event is co
-sponsored by the New England Wind Energy Education 
Project. And so let me briefly introduce Jason Gifford who's going to say 

hello. Thanks.
  
Jason Gifford:
 Thank you very much Chris. I'm Jason Gifford and I want to take just a 
moment to introduce the New England Wind Energy Education Project. We 
partnered with Cape & Islands Renewable Energy Collaborative this evening 
so that thi
s presentation is not only available to those of us here in person but 
also to a group of hopefully over 160 registrants who are participating online.
   So I'm going to take just a moment to introduce the New England Wind 
Energy Education Project. I'm goin
g to provide a brief overview of the 
objective project activities and funding of NEWEEP.
   NEWEEP is a Webinar series and it's designed to provide objective 
information, deciding decision makers and the public throughout New 
England. And we do this by coll
ecting and disseminating accurate, objective 
and up to date information on critical wind energy issues. We do this with an 

eye towards appropriately sighted wind generation.
  3    This is a two
-year project. So at a minimum we'll go through the end of 2011. 
It will consist of at least eight Webinars. Tonight's is the third. Webinar 
Number 1 was on the impact on property values. Our second Webinar was just 
two days ago and also related to wind turbine sound.
  
 We're planning a full day in person conference in ea
rly 2011. That will be a 
multi topic and multi speaker event so we will advertise that and we hope that 

you will be able to join us for that as well.
  
 All of the material from each of the Webinars, from the in person events that 
includes the PowerPoints, 
the audios, these events are recorded, an annotated 
bibliography in which we'll include a variety of perspectives not those 
- not 
only those of the speakers at the events but also perspectives of other people 

who study these issues and have information to 
share. So we are making every 
effort to make available to you information from all different perspectives on 
this issue.
  
 The project is funded by DOE as part of the Wind Powering America Market 
Acceptance Program. And so as a result, the program is not i
ndustry funded or 
driven in any way.
   I'd like to make just a few organizational and governance comments about the 
program. Both Sustainable Energy Advantage and the National Renewable 
Energy Lab were co
-applicants to DOE in order to create the Wind Energ
y Education Program.
   And so it is coordinated by Sustainable Energy Advantage but directed by a 
committee of regional stakeholders. And that group includes a number of 
 4  policymaking and other bodies. And our direction on topic and speakers and 
all other m
atters comes from this group.
  
 I'd like to conclude with just a few comments about NEWEEP's philosophy 
and approach. Our perspective is objectivity. Wind energy has benefits but not 
every place is right for wind. And we take as our framing principle two t
hings. 
First that the consequences of wind power are rarely as dire as made out to be 

by organized opponents and are often not as free of consequences as 
proponents might represent.
  
 So as a result, our stake is in the process and not the outcome and that
's whey 
we're participating in tonight's event. There are hard decisions to be made and 

decision makers in the public need to be armed with good information, not 
information only from parties who are either aimed to build or obstruct 
specific projects.
  
 So we'd like a good outcome. And that's why we want a fair an accurate 
presentation of the issue. We'll never be able to convince everybody that 

NEWEEP doesn't have a bias but we'll try and we'll try this in the way that we 
gather speakers, the way that way
 that we provide bibliographies including 
gather data and positions that are counter to those of the speakers and by 

posting all of this information on the Web site.
  
 So I'd just like to conclude by saying that we acknowledge and respect that 
there maybe 
multiple perspectives on each issue. And we'll work within our 
five remaining Webinars and our in person conference to work with you to 
gather those perspectives, make sure they're represented throughout the 
process so that everything is heard.
   5   And now I
'd like to hand the podium back to Chris to introduce our featured 
speaker. Thanks very much.
  Chris Powicki:
 Thanks Jason. We're pleased to have Dr. Robert McCunney speaking tonight. 
He's a Research Scientist at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and h
e's 
also a physician. We felt like it was very important given what occurred on 

the Cape in the last couple of months with the cancellation of municipal wind 
projects and with real genuine concerns raised about the wind turbine 
Falmouth regarding noise tha
t we bring a scientific perspective to bear on the 
issue.
   Decision makers are getting bombarded with information. Some of it has gone 
through the interview process. A lot of it has not. They're getting information 
from proponents; information from oppone
nts and like NEWEEP, Cape & 
Islands Renewable Energy Collaborative is interested in informing decision 

on behalf of sustainable energy. Again, we're not interested in the specific 
outcome other than good decision
-making. And so that's why we asked Mr. 
McCu
nney to speak here tonight.
   In the interest of our Web based audience as well as in the interest of keeping 
peace based on perhaps some differing opinions of those in attendance, we are 
going to have a Q&A session at the end of Dr. McCunney's presentatio
n and 
we're going to ask that you submit questions on index cards.
  
 And so I will hand out 
- hand these out and if you could write them down and 
get them back up to the front of the room, we will give them to Dr. McCunney 

at the end of his organized prese
ntation. So with that, let's introduce or give a 
round of applause for our speaker. Thank you.
   6  Robert McCunney:
 Thank you very much. It's a pleasure to be here tonight and I'm certainly 
trying to speak in the spirit of the two previous presenters to try t
o give you as 
much as I can objective information based on science. I'm not really a 
proponent or opponent as it were of wind turbine. I'm really more of a 
proponent that if science is used for public policy that the science is 
interpreted properly.
  
 To give you some idea about how I got involved in this particular issue that is 
potential health affects of wind turbines, about last May I was invited by the 

American Wind Energy Association to be part of an expert panel that was 
charged with conducting a rev
iew of the scientific literature related to wind 
turbines in human health.
   Prior to that time, I had no formal experience in the health implication of wind 
turbines. But as an occupational physician, I've been in practice now a little 
over 30 years. I've
 been concerned about the implications of noise on workers.
  
 So I've been involved in setting up occupational health programs for workers 
exposed to high noise levels in various factories and various types of 
industries for many years. I've also lectured 
- annually lectured the Harvard 
School of Public Health on noise and health.
   I've written some book chapters on occupational noise exposure. And for 
about seven or eight years I reviewed the audio metric tests of people who 
worked at MIT to make sure the
y didn't suffer noise induced hearing loss.
  
 So this isn't in any way trying to beat my breast in terms of to what I've done 
but just to give you some perspective about my background even before I got 
interested and got more involved in the issue of wind 
turbines and human 
health.
  7    Now what I did and what we did as part of the panel is we were asked to take 
an approach to see what was out there in terms of scientific literature. Now the 
focus of the panel and I'm really here not speaking as any representa
tive of the 
panel. The panel was really my first foray as it were into the issue of wind 
turbines and human health. But since then I've obviously paid more attention 
to the scientific literature on this topic and have tried to keep abreast of what's 
going 
on.  
 But our initial approach within the panel was to look at peer reviewed papers. 
By peer review these are scientific papers that have gone through the peer 
review process and then essentially what that means is if I write a scientific 
paper and I want 
it published in a certain journal, I submit it to the editor.
  
 The editor then farms the paper out from anywhere from one to three people 
to review the paper and say gee they missed this, how about this study. And 
they didn't interpret that data right and
 it goes back and forth until ultimately a 
papery is either rejected or accepted with revisions. The revisions are done 

and maybe the paper gets in.
  
 Now the scientific peer review process had a little bit better layer of equality 
to the science. Just lik
e in life where there's different types of restaurants, 
schools, baseball teams, you name it, there's certainly different types of 

science and with respect to the quality. So we wanted to focus on what was 
published in the peer reviewed literature.
  
 Now t
he way that's done is in the Web site, and I'll get to my formal 
presentation but I wanted to give you a little background of this what we did. 

You're all familiar with Google. Well, in the scientific world there's a search 
 8  engine called PubMed, which is m
aintained by the National Library of 
Medicine supported by all your tax dollars.
   And this PubMed search engine actually sites published papers from around 
the world. There's thousands and thousands of papers that are there. So if you 
want to look on a ce
rtain topic, let's say you're interested in wind turbines, 
wind turbines and health effects. You put it in a dialogue box, you search and 

you see what happens.
  
 So there were a number of different approaches that we in the committee or 
the panel tried to 
do to make sure we didn't miss anything. Whether it was 
wind turbines and health or frequency noise and health, high frequency noise 
and health, extra auditory affects of the noise to make sure we weren't missing 
anything of significance.
  
 So then the pan
el consisted of about, as I said, about seven people all of whom 
represented different disciplines. I think there were two 
- at least two maybe 
three physicians, there were acoustic engineers and audiologists in a way of 

representing the scientific dimensi
on of our work.
  
 So with that as background, I wanted to tell you what we found. What I'm 
about to tell you is not any fundamental research that I did or the panel 
members did. We just took a thorough look at what was out there in the 
literature and this 
was work that was ultimately published in December '09. 
But prior to this presentation, I've taken another look through PubMed to see 
if there's anything new that I should have been aware of before coming to a 
public forum such as this.
  
 But let's start. 
First slide. I think it's important to know that with the operation 
of a wind turbine, the major exposure of concern in noise. In occupational and 
 9  environmental medicine of which I'm a specialist, the concern is always 
whether there's any link between the 
exposure on one hand and other hand the 
health effect.
   For example, is there any link between exposure to asbestos in the shipyards 
in the development of lung cancer? Is there any link between working with 
solvents at a sheet metal shop for example and t
he development of asthma? 
Fundamentally we're always looking at any links between exposure A and B 

designated health effects. Now when it comes to wind turbines, the major 
operative issue as it were is noise. So let's take a closer look at that.
  
 With res
pect to operation of wind turbines, there's two different types of 
noise. There's the noise that comes from the mechanical operation of the wind 

turbines and B, the noise from the turning of the blade, the so
-called swish
-swoosh sound. Next slide.
   I thin
k it's important in a discussion such as this to point out how noise is 
measure. Noise is measured fundamentally by two ways. One is how loud it is 

and that's measured in decibels, and the tone of the noise. For example, young 
children may have very high f
requency sounds, birds and so forth. Or if you 
ever stood next to a base speaker at a rock concert or wherever the musical 

concert might be, you know that's there also low frequency noise.
  
 And all of you have ever gone through an audiometric test that's 
where your 
hearing is tested, you know, you sit in a booth and what the audiologist does is 
start with low frequencies going all the way up to high and, you know, you 
raise your hand when you hear it.
  
 So think of noise as being measured by both its loudn
ess that is in decibels 
and it's pitch that's its frequency. And we'll frequently through my 
 10  presentation this evening look at those two terms. Now I think it's important 
for comparative purposes to see the decibel levels of various common 
activities with 
which you're all familiar.
  
 Jet engines for example are about 140 decibels, a rock band about 110 and 
many of you may not remember this from high school mathematics but the 
scale is logarithmic which means the difference between 56 decibels and 60 
decibel
s would be a doubling of the sound; 60 to 70 would be a further 
doubling.
   So you can see hear that normal conversation is about 50 to 70 decibels. And 
we used to have a rule of thumb when I'd go to the 
- I used to teach residents 
in occupational medicine
 and we'd go to a factory to look at health risks. And 
I'd say one of the easiest ways to determine whether you may have a problem 
with noise is extend your arm and if you have to raise your voice so the person 
hears you, it's probably over 85 decibels.
  
 So I want you to keep these figures in mind because as you go down lower, 
you'll see that the risk of or the noise in your wind turbines is about 35 to 45 
decibels and this is based on a study of the National Research Council of the 
U.S. Government. Next s
lide.
  
 Now wind turbines and sound 
- again according to the National Research 
Council sound power from a single wind turbine is usually around 90 to 105 

decibels. That's pretty loud right there at the source. There's no doubt about 
that.
  
 And for compari
son purposes, if you own a factory or you work at a factory 
and the noise levels are greater than 85 decibels on an average eight hour time 

weighted average, people need to be enrolled in a hearing conservation 
 11  program which means hearing protection. It me
ans periodic audiometric 
exams; it means education and so forth. So I just wanted to put these figures 
up for comparative purpose.
  
 Noise on the other hand again, and this is from the National Research Council, 
from an onshore wind project are typically i
n the 35 to 45 decibel range at a 
distance of about 300 meters. Now there's all sorts of ways that these sound 

levels can be measured. Clearly the results are going to be dependent on the 
level of power of the wind turbine. But just put these into perspect
ive. Next 
slide.
   There are three points that I think you want keep in mind again as we go 
through these studies. And I think it's helpful just to refresh your memory on 
some of these points with which you already may already be familiar. Speech 
frequency
 is between 500 and 20,000 hertz, normal speech frequency. There's 
low frequency sounds and as I said that's more along like the base if you're 

standing next to a speaker or the music is usually about 220 to 250 hertz.
  
 And then there's the so
-called infr
asound. Infrasound is less than 20 hertz. 
And the reason I bring this up is there are some people who feel that there are 

potential health affects associated with wind turbines have raised concerns 
about low frequencies and corresponding vibrations associa
ted with those 
frequencies that may be an issue of some concern.
   Next 
- so there are three kinds of sound emitted by wind turbines that receive 
attention, the infrasound, the low frequency sound and the so
-called swish
-swish sound. Now the swish
-swish so
und that's associated with the wind 
turbine has been determined to be at a frequency of about 500 to 1000 hertz. 

So the swish
-swish sound is not really low frequency sound according to 
measurements nor is it infrasound.
  12    You should also know, and I'll go 
though this in more detail later, that there 
have been studies in various countries looking into sound level measurements 
and the frequency distribution of those sound measurements in the proximity 
of wind turbines. Next slide.
  
 I think this table's impor
tant to understand some of the points that have been 
made by people who feel there are serious health risks associated with wind 

turbines. And as you look up here on this table is the right hand side this is 
- this is all infrasound. That's 20 hertz.
   So 
again, 16, 10, 8, 4 and so forth in that so called infrasound region. You can 
see on the lower row that as you go lower and lower in frequency, the noise 
level that you need in order to hear that frequency gets higher and higher.
  
 So the fancy way of sayi
ng it mathematically would be there's an inverse 
relationship between frequency and sound level needed to hear the frequency 

which means the lower the frequency the higher the noise has to be. Which is 
why I put that first slide up there about 110 decibels
 being a rock band.
  
 You can see, you know, to hear a frequency of about 4 hertz, you're going to 
need a pretty loud sound similarly even at 20 hertz. The people can hear it but 
the sound has to be pretty high. Next slide.
  
 Now infrasound and hearing. Th
e noise level refers to the loudness of the 
sound necessary for it to be heard and the respective frequency. And wind 
turbine 
- the infrasound emitted from wind turbines is at a level of about 50 to 
70 decibels, sometimes higher but well below the level th
at you would need to 
have in order to hear the frequency 
- the sound of that frequency. Next slide.
   13   Are there health affects? One of the other concerns that's raised and this has to 
do quite frankly I learned a lot about this in this process as well beca
use I'm 
not an acoustic engineer. But apparently the low frequency sounds are much 

more difficult to control.
  
 Low frequency sounds have longer weight lengths and they can travel longer 
distances and they can actually get through walls and so forth. If ev
ery 
- many 
of you in college probably remember the person above you or below you used 

to blast the speakers at 3:00 am. You heard it. You 
- maybe you heard it and 
you felt it.
   So the low frequency sounds are more easily transmitted than the higher 
freque
ncy sort of the high pitched like child like bird like sounds. Next 
- there's no evidence however that we were able to glean from our literature 

review that these infrasounds or low frequency sounds at the levels generated 
by wind turbines can adversely af
fect health. Next slide.
  
 So what did we do with our literature search? As I said earlier, the first thing 
we did was just look at wind turbines and health affects. Very general. 
Sometimes you find an article and that may refer to three or four other arti
cles 
at the end of the paper. So we tried to make sure we weren't missing anything. 

And there 
- in the literature review we wanted to address peer reviewed 
studies. Remember what peer review means. I mean it's not a guarantee that 

the study is perfect but 
it just adds another level of quality control.
  
 There are actually three cross sectional studies of people that lived in the 
vicinity of wind turbines. They're primarily from Europe. If any of you have 
been through Northwestern Europe particularly Netherl
ands, Germany and so 
forth you see the wind turbines there all over the place. So there have been 
 14  studies there. So let's take a look at those studies and see what the results 
show.
  
 Now this was a study of people 
- just under 2000 people among 70,000 
eli
gible results all who lived within about two and a half kilometers. That's a 
little over a mile and a half of a wind turbine in the Netherlands. And they had 
sound level measurements and everybody that was eligible to participate 
answered a questionnaire a
nd then the questionnaires were analyzed in 
relationship to the exposure, which in this case was the sound level. Next 

slide.
  
 You can see this table. It's not as complicated as it may appear. The first row 
is just the sound level. And as you can see goin
g from left to right, those five 
decibel increments are associated with a number of people who had sound 

level measurements outside their home at that level. And then the lower row is 
who reported being annoyed. And frankly, the questionnaire is directed t
o people do you feel annoyed by the wind turbine? Why do you feel annoyed 

and so forth? And these are essentially the results that investigators reported.
  
 And as you can see, as the sound level increases from 30 to 35, only about a 
half percent reported 
being very annoyed. As you get higher, 40 to 45, more 
and more people report being annoyed. And that's' a feature that you'll see that 

comes out a lot of the studies that as the noise levels increase, there's a greater 
- a greater percentage of people who 
report being annoyed by those noise 
levels. Next slide.
   So the authors noted also when they looked at the people who reported 
annoyance, they wanted to find out why they were annoyed and what made 
them annoyed. So they found out that the percentage of pe
ople who reported 
annoyance from wind turbines it was not quite as bad as aircraft.
  15    It was between aircraft noise and shunting yards. Shunting yards are where 
railway cargo shipments and so forth not for passenger trains come in and 
there's all kinds of 
noise associated with those. So it was between those two 
features.
  
 They also noted, and this has been a recurring theme that I've seen in a lot of 
the research on wind turbines that is in other studies, of a link between a 
person's attitude towards wind 
turbines and reporting annoyance. That when 
you take the people who are annoyed however that is, then you try to find out 
why.
  
 The strongest factor of why people were annoyed is because they didn't like 
the wind turbine whether it was cosmetic or whether
 they didn't get economic 
benefit. There are a lot of different reasons reported in these studies. Next 

slide.
  
 These same investigators, these are Swedish investigators who did another 
study. This was actually in Sweden where they evaluated not quite 200
0 people as in the Dutch study but about 750. And similar methods where they 
distributed a questionnaire to people that had sound measurements. And the 
people who completed the questionnaires were between about 600 and 1000 
meters. Six hundred meters would
 be six or seven football fields for example 
just in terms of distance. Next slide.
  
 And what they found results vary similar to the Dutch is that when once you 
get to about 35 to 37 decibels, good 5% of people report being annoyed by 
those levels. And as
 you go higher, greater than 40 decibels, about 15% report 
being annoyed.
   16   This study went into a little more detail about trying to find out why people 
were annoyed frankly. And what was striking to me and a lot of others in 
looking at the results of the
 study 
-- this isn't my study; anybody else can look 
at the same study and see the same results 
-- the odds ratio which is a way of 

evaluating how significant a certain factor is in the study, that people 
- the 
odds ratio was based in attitude towards wind
 turbines and visual impact 

toward wind turbines.
  
 So this is a quote from the study those who had an unfavorable attitude 
towards wind turbines were over 13 times more likely to report being annoyed 
by it. Very significant findings. Next slide.
  
 The sam
e investigators studied just under half the same amount as the 
previous study, about 350 people in five domestic areas. The wind turbines 

were of this power generation of 660 kilowatts. They also did a frequency 
analysis that looked at low frequency sound.
 And the sound levels ranged 
from the mid 30s to about mid 40s in decibels.
  
 And remember that first slide I showed you that showed the length between 
the frequency of the sound and the sound level necessary to hear that 
frequency? Clearly just putting th
at slide next to this you'll see that these 
frequencies could not be heard. And the distances from the wind turbines 

ranged from as close as 150 meters, a little longer than two football fields, and 
1200 meters. Next slide.
  
 So among the 132 people in the
 32 to 35 decibel range at a distance of about 
500 meters, about 6% report being very annoyed in this study. And again, like 

the other two studies, a person's attitude towards wind turbines was the 
strongest factor associated with the annoyance. Next slide
.   17   So how would we summarize at least these three environmental studies? 
They're the only three that were out there that we were able to find actually. 
Based on the similarity of results of residents in the vicinity of wind turbines 
in Sweden, a number of
 conclusions can be drawn.
  
 One, certainly a small percentage of people report being very annoyed by the 
sound from wind turbines at less than 35 decibels. As the noise levels 
increase, more people report being annoyed and the perception of annoyance 
from the sound of wind is strongly related toward attitude toward the wind 
turbines. And people who are most likely to be annoyed are those who don't 

like wind turbines for some reason or another. Next slide.
  
 Also we tried to look at infrasound and low frequ
ency sound. So I want you to 
understand the structure that we tried to approach to understand this issue of 

potential health affects of wind turbines. I want to just look at the studies 
themselves, look at people who live in the vicinity of wind turbines. 
So those 
three studies that I just described is all that's out there.
  
 So then you think gee is there something about the exposure? Is there 
something about the benzenes? Is there something about the asbestos? Is there 
something about the lead that's caus
ing a different effect? Is there something 
about the noise that would be different in this situation compared to other 

studies we know about noise?
  
 So okay. Let's take a look at low frequency noise and health affects. Let's take 
a look at infrasound and 
health affects to see if there are what are called 
experimental studies.
   By experimental studies I mean exactly what the term means. You go to some 
laboratory and they have seven people sitting in a room and you test them for 
 18  symptoms they may have from 
exposure to low frequency noise or infrasound. 
In fact studies like this have been done with the old Apollo Space Program 
and I'll describe those momentarily.
  
 We weren't able to find any link between low frequency noise from wind 
turbines and health affe
cts. There wasn't anything reported. That doesn't mean 
there's nothing there. It's just there's 
- it's not a problem. It's just nothing's been 
reported.
  
 You should know for balance though the Food and Drug Association actually 
approves infrasound for the
rapeutic massage at 70 decibels. And if any of you 
have ever worked getting a medication through the Food and Drug 

Administration, it basically takes 10 years from bench to bedside.
  
 You know, if you make a new 
- invent a famous drug that's going to cure 
diabetes, it's going to be 2020 before patients start using it. So the FDA is not 

an easy organization to slip something through. They approved infrasound for 
70 decibels. Next slide.
  
 Now I wanted to go over with you 
- now these are not peer reviewed stu
dies. 
And the reason that I'm citing them is because sometimes you can get valuable 

information from non
-peer reviewed studies for all sorts of reasons; and these 
maybe government reports.
   But one of the problems in doing a report that we did is trying t
o address non
-peer reviewed studies is unlike the peer reviewed studies, there's no 

systematic way of referencing them to make sure you get everything. That 
some of these now because of the availability of the Internet, some reports are 
showing up.
   19   This 
is a Danish study done a couple of years ago where they looked at a 
whole variety of wind turbines. Wind turbines are in many different places of 
Denmark, certainly right off Copenhagen and so forth and now in the water 
area.
  
 They determined this Danish 
study that wind turbines do not emit audible 
infrasound and they said actually that other noise sources such as road traffic 
emit lower 
- low frequencies of a higher level. Actually road traffic emits 
more low frequency sound than wind turbines according t
o the Danish study.
   They also said there's an approximate 15 to 
- 5 to 15 decibel attenuation of 
noise from outdoors to indoors. Attenuation is obviously it's a reduction if it's 

80 decibels outside which is incredible but it was (55) inside. There's als
o something very interesting about the attenuation in a little anecdote.
   One of the concerns they had earlier in my career was whether women who 
were bearing children, pregnant could work in high noisy areas. Believe it or 
not there actually have been st
udies that show that the uterus can dampen the 
noise up to 30 decibels, which means that if there's an 80 decibel sound that 

the fetus or 
- yeah the fetus at that point would be experiencing about 50 
decibels.
   It's important to understand that the body s
urface does have attenuation 
properties both in terms of the sound level as well as the frequency and we'll 

get into that momentarily. Next slide.
  
 There's also a British study done about four years ago and they found just 
exactly the same what the Danes 
that the low frequency noise associated with 
road traffic was greater than the sound of the wind turbines.
   20   That the infrasound associated with modern wind turbines will not be 
imperious to the health of a wind farm neighbor. And these are conclusions 
from the authors. None of this is either the opinion of a panel or me 
personally. This is all in the actual reports themselves.
   The measurements of infrasound of modern wind farms at distances of 200 
meters were between 25 and 40 decibels. And as you rememb
er, that first 
slide people aren't going to hear this. And the authors also referred to a World 

Health Organization report that stated there's no reliable evidence that 
infrasounds below the hearing threshold produced physiological or 
psychological affects
. Next slide.
  
 In the British study the most common cause of complaint was not associated 
with low frequency noise but with the occasional audible modulation of the 
aerodynamic noise; basically the swish
-swish sound. People didn't like the 
swish
-swish sou
nd at night.
   And they reported also, again a quote from the report, of the 126 wind farms 
operating in the U.K., five reported low frequency noise problems. Therefore 
such complaints are the exception rather than the general problems for wind 
turbines. N
ext slide.
  
 And there was also a U.S.A. study. This was done in Texas and just published 
a couple of months ago actually where they evaluated about 15 wind turbines 
and the results again a third time the Danes, the British and now the 
Americans saying tha
t infrasound isn't audible.
  
 To even the most sensitive people about 300 meters, that's about three football 
fields, from the wind turbines and the low frequency sound above 40 hertz 
may be audible depending on background sound levels.
  21    The also said tha
t a maximum noise at a distance of more than 300 meters 
from the nearest residents, wind turbines do not pose a low frequency or an 

infrasound problem. At this distance the wind farms 
- I don't know if people 
know about ANSI the American National Standard 
Institute that evaluates all 
kinds of things used in industry.
  
 But according to ANSI standards, these levels below frequency sound are the 
same as what you'd need in bedrooms, classrooms and hospitals based on 
background sound levels. Next slide.
  
 Now l
ow frequency noise and health affects. You've seen a little bit of the 
summary of the British, Danish and American studies. That the health related 

effects of living in the vicinity of wind turbines and corresponding exposure to 
low frequency sound have al
so been evaluated in the Netherlands where in 
addition to annoyance they're looking at health problems.
   And the investigators in (Vandenburg) found no link between noise levels and 
risk of Diabetes, high blood pressure. Tinnitus is ringing in the ears. I
 can't 
imagine how that would be a problem from these noise levels.
   But high noise levels can certainly cause Tinnitus. Tinnitus is that ringing in 
your ears that sometimes people get from aspirin, from high noise levels, all 
sorts of reasons people get 
it. But you wouldn't expect it from the noise levels 
associated with wind turbines and no cardiovascular disease.
  
 To the contrary, the illnesses were more common at the lower sound levels 
than the higher sound levels, which really argues against the caus
e and effect 
relationship.
   22   For example, in occupational medicine when you look at a research study to 
determine whether there's a cause and effect relationship, that is that the 
asbestos caused the lung cancer, that the led caused the kidney disease, tha
t the solvents caused the asthma, you want to look at what's called a dose 

response relationship.
  
 In plain English, that the higher exposure associated with the higher risk. And 
here you have higher noise levels associated with the lower risk. If in fact
 there was some link between the noise and these health problems, you'd 

expect there to be greater problems then as the noise levels increased but the 
contrast is was just the opposite. Next slide.
  
 Just to give you a little background too, these are some
 of the experimental 
studies to which I referred earlier. And in the Apollo Space Program in the 

60s and 70s astronauts in training were evaluated for the affect of low 
frequency noise and infrasounds on them.
  
 And you could imagine the hostile environmen
t that astronauts have to 
operate in. And the Apollo Space Program the subjects were actually exposed 
to between 120 and 140 decibels low frequency noise without harmful affects. 
Remember that you're approaching the jet engine level; that's rock band level
, that's pretty high noise.
   In the U.S. Space Program, the studies indicated that 24
-hour exposures to 
120 to 130 decibels are tolerable below 20 hertz. Now granted everybody's not 

an astronaut. I realize there's a lot of individual variability among peo
ple, but 
nonetheless I think these results do, you know, provide some encouraging 
support for some of the conclusions that have been drawn in other settings.
   23   So modern wind turbines produce sound that is assessed as infrasound at 
typical levels 50 to 70 
decibels below the hearing threshold at those 
frequencies who concluded that infrasounds 
- this is by Jacobsen, another 
Scandinavian author, who concluded that infrasound from wind turbines does 

not present a health concern. Next slide.
  
 You should also k
now for balance in any study, any occupational and 
environmental study, you have to consider what are known as confounders. 
For example if someone who has lung cancer and you found out gee they 
worked at shipyards as a sheet metal worker in World War II an
d the Korean 
war now they have lung cancer; they also smoked. How do you sort out 

whether it was the asbestos or the smoking? That's called a confounder.
  
 How do you sort out somebody who has nerve damage working 15 years with 
certain 
- like n
-Hexane, the
y also have Diabetes. Diabetes is the confounder. 
So in this case there are confounders because your normal heart tones believe 

it or not are infrasounds. They're one to two hertz.
  
 So heart tones are one to two hertz and that's 
- you want them to be that
 way. 
So it's not something 
- it's not as though there's something sinister or 
potentially damaging on its face of infrasounds or low frequency sound 
because there's infrasound going right on right now in your body.
  
 Similarly with lung sounds. Lung sound
s are a little bit higher in frequency 
but certainly in the low frequency range. Lung sounds, you know, when you 
go to the physician's office and stethoscope's put on your back, take deep 
breaths and so forth, that's as you can see between 5 and 35 decibel
s at about 
150 to 600 hertz. Next slide.
   24   Now low frequency sound. Research of low frequency sounds has shown that 
an audible low frequency sound does not normally become objectionable until 
it's about 10 to 15 decibels above the hearing threshold. Hearin
g threshold 
-remember the old hearing test? You know, the frequency and you raise the 

volume until you hear it.
  
 People hear that at different levels. I mean we're different in many different 
ways. But apparently the low frequency sound does not become ob
jectionable 
according to research studies until it's much higher than the hearing threshold. 
Next slide.
  
 You should also know that there are 
- there's been a lot of variety of health 
related information has been introduced in the context of wind turbines
 and 
health affects. And I thought that I describe at least some of those to give you 
another perspective.
  
 There's been a condition described as wind turbine syndrome and there's a 
book written by a Pediatrician named Nina Pierpont who wrote a book calle
d Wind Turbine Syndrome. And if I could try to get to the heart of the chase, the 

apotheosis raised is that low frequency sound and corresponding vibration can 
adversely affect health. Remember that first table I showed you where as the 
frequency goes down
 lower and lower, the sound level needed to hear that 
frequency gets higher and higher.
  
 So one of the theories behind the so
-called wind turbine syndrome is the 
frequency goes down, there's higher vibration, it's the vibration affecting your 

health. Now 
as of at least May in a search that I did in PubMed under the term 
Wind Turbine Syndrome, nothing showed up, not one paper. And I haven't 
seen it as a recognized diagnosis in the medical community.
   25   No unique symptoms or combination. Frankly the symptoms 
that have been 
described seem to be what's been described about 30 or 40 years ago in the 
context of annoyance from noise. So it's a similar pattern when some people 
feel annoyed by noise for whatever reason, some of these symptoms have 
been reported. Next
 slide.
  
 What the view of our group was 
-- I'm trying to look at all the literature and I 
showed you what's out there at least as of a few months ago 
-- that low level 
sounds from outside the body do not cause a high enough excitation within the 
body to e
xceed normal internal body sounds and that's the confounder we 
talked about where there's other exposures of similar magnitude.
   And the similarity between symptoms of noise annoyance and those of wind 
turbines indicate this diagnosis is not, at least acc
ording to many, a 
pathological affect but an example of the stress affects of exposure to noise 

virtually any type. Next slide.
  
 So again, the Wind Turbine Syndrome appears to be to be on two hypotheses 
that the low levels of air born infrasound from wind
 turbines at one and two 
hertz directly affect the vestibular system. The vestibular system helps us with 
balance. The vestibular system for example operates 
- if you got to wash your 
face, close your eyes so you don't fall into the bowl for example. The 

vestibular system helps you know when you're about to fall to brace yourself.
  
 So one of the theories is that the low levels of airborne infrasound from wind 
turbines directly affects the balance. There's about three different types of 
balance. I mean it's
 not only the vestibular system. There's also the cerebellum 
at the back of the brain and your eyes and so forth. But at least the vestibular 

system plays a major role.
   26   So the other theory is this low level of airborne infrasound from wind turbines 
at th
ese low frequencies enter the lungs via the mouth and then vibrate the 
diaphragm, which transmits this vibration to the viscera. The viscera is the 

internal organs so the intestines, liver and so forth. Next slide.
  
 So that's how 
- bottom line is Wind Tur
bine Syndrome as described seems to 
be a variation of symptoms reported in the context of annoyance from noise. 

Vibroacoustic disease is another condition that's been raised in the context of 
potential affects of living in the proximity of wind turbines.
  
 And in the case of wind turbines and it's hypothetical relationship, we only 
have limited information that's called case series where two or three people 
seem to have a certain collection of illnesses or diseases that they think is 
related to eating micro
wave popcorn or living next to a hazardous waste site 
or whatever it might be.
   That's a case series or case report and I think case reports have certain value. 
I've certainly written case reports myself in the literature to introduce gee, 
there may be so
mething going on here between this exposure and this health 
affect.
   It's not to discount case series or case reports because they have value. They 
just have limited value in drawing causal connections. The main value of case 
reports is to raise ideas. It
 might be studies in other settings with different 
types of investigation. Next slide.
   So a review of PubMed on the term 
vibroacoustic
 disease, there were about 36 
references. And what surprised me was all of them but two originated with the 

same group f
rom Portugal. And it seemed unclear why the rest of the 
academic world does not appear to address this vibroacoustic disease concept 
 27  essentially under the domain of one particular group. Next slide. And again, 
these were case series.
  
 So how do you interp
ret the scientific literature? In the case of wind turbine 
noise and its hypothetical relationship to Wind Turbine Syndrome and 
vibroacoustic disease, there have been not case control cohort and longitudinal 
studies that have been published. In fact basica
lly the weakest type of 
scientific evidence case series is available.
   And it's with some caution that I say this but I mean there is a hierarchy 
within the scientific world in terms of the quality of studies necessary in order 
to draw causal inferences b
etween exposure to any hazard and any particular 
disease.
   These are fundamental principles that are used when you're evaluating the 
affects of smoking on health or asbestos in lung cancer. You know, whatever 
the issue may be, coal and lung disease, you'r
e always trying to look at 
equality of the scientific studies that are there. And at least from what we have 

seen that the studies that are out there are really unpublished in the peer 
reviewed literature case series. Next slide.
  
 So how 
- what conclusion
s can I make of this based on looking at the 
literature? And again I want to emphasize that 
- and anybody can do the same 
think we did, which is we tried to look at available 
- publicly available peer 
reviewed literature. You don't have to be a physician o
r a scientist to do 

PubMed. Anybody here in the room can look at the articles and determine 
your interpretation of them and then look at the experimental studies.
  
 So from this effort, I think some conclusions can be drawn. One is the noise 
from wind turb
ines does not pose a risk to hearing loss. I don't think there's 
 28  any worry about that whatsoever. I think that's a statement that can be made 
with some assurance.
  
 I mean there are 
- the lowest risk of noise induced hearing loss according to 
the National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health is in the range of 
about 82 to 83 decibels eight hour time weighted average for about four years, 
40 not 4. So you're nowhere near that with respect to wind turbines. So there's 
really no risk of hearing loss.
  
 Now there's no question that these studies support that some people are 
annoyed by wind turbine noise. And the higher the noise level goes, more and 
more people get annoyed. I think that's pretty clear based on the science that 
we've seen.
  
 And the major
 cause of concern from that noise at least based on our review 
of the literature and mine particular, is the fluctuating nature of it. It's not 

there all the time. Obviously when the wind slows down, the turbines don't 
turn. Sometimes when it's really turb
ulent, you'll 
- more will turn.
  
 The noise may be more susceptible at night than daytime when people have 
no other competing sources of noise. But there's no question that people do 
report that.
  
 And the sub audible low frequency noise and infrasound fro
m wind turbines 
based on what's out there does not present a risk to health and we're making 
these conclusions on the fact that direct measurements near homes in the 
proximity of wind turbines and also the experimental study such as I 
mentioned with the Ap
ollo Space Program.
   29   So there's two bits of reasonable scientific data that have been published to 
give some assurance that the low 
- sub audible low frequency in infrasound 
noises are not of concern. And that the Wind Turbine Syndrome is really a 

new dis
ease or an accepted medical diagnosis but the symptoms certainly 
appear very, very similar to what's been described for about 30 to 40 years in 

terms of annoyance to noise 
- environmental noise.
  
 Well thank you very much. I appreciate all your attention. 
It's been fun to try 
to give you my perspective and I really invite questions. Thank you.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Sure. (Yeah. Sure). Right now for the folks online we're collecting cards from 
the audience and we're going to read them aloud and then Dr. McCunney w
ill give a shot at answering them.
   So first question. As a doctor, how do you explain the fact that people are not 
sick prior to turbines beginning and then they get sick and when they leave 
living near turbines the illness goes away?
  
Robert McCunney:
 Well that's a good question. There obviously is something going on there. 
If people feel certain symptoms whatever they do, whether they eat something 

or they go in a certain area, air bothers them or whatever, there may be 
something going on there. Some pe
ople are affected and that's what I 
indicated there in those studies that certainly some 
- as the noise levels 
increased more and more people become annoyed.
  
Man:
 (Unintelligible).
  
Chris Powicki:
 Next question. Was Dr. Nina Pierpont's Wind Turbine Syndro
me book peer 
reviewed as requirement for publication?
   30  Robert McCunney:
 Let me try to answer the other question because I think a gentleman here 
said they were sick. I'm really reluctant; I mean first of all as a physician, I 
accept any symptom a person te
lls me that's real. I don't 
- certainly wouldn't 
want to give the impression that some people might 
- that any symptom a 
patient reports to me is real. And I think the issue is not whether the person 
has the symptoms but what the cause may be and what the 
appropriate 
treatment might be.
  
 So I really can't address the question about how people are sick because I 
obviously haven't seen them. I'm not going to do what the Senator did three or 
four ago and looked at a videotape of a woman who was in a coma for 
18 years. He looked at her for 30 minutes and made a diagnosis. I don't do that. 
Next.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Okay. Could you please speak to the health risks that arise with chronic sleep 
deprivation and are you aware that the Geneva Convention defines forced 
sleep deprivation as torture?
  
Robert McCunney:
 First I apologize for not answer the other question. I think Nina Pierpont 
before she published her book had a number of people review it for 

commentary but I don't know. All I know is that that work hasn't bee
n published. It's searchable in PubMed. I think that's the easiest way of 

explaining it.
  
 Can I please to the health risks that arise with chronic sleep deprivation? 
Yeah. Chronic sleep deprivation is a serious matter. There's no question about 
that. And 
I'm not an expert in chronic sleep deprivation but from my general 
knowledge, clearly it can increase risks of high blood pressure. It can increase 

risks of myocardial infarction. Sleep deprivation is not something you'd want 
to encourage.
  31    The 
- I'll get
 you in a second; I'm sorry do you have a question? I'm sorry. I 
apologize. I guess the rules of the discussion are you can write something 

down and I'll get to your question. Other people have done that.
  
 The 
- am I aware that the Geneva Convention defin
es poor sleep deprivation 
as torture? I'm not aware of it but it wouldn't surprise me. I wouldn't 

recommend sleep deprivation.
  
Chris Powicki:
 What's the best way to combat all of the inaccurate and misleading negative 
information that opponents are advanc
ing on wind turbines?
  
Robert McCunney:
 I can certainly tell that just by the nature of the presentation that I made 
and I really don't 
- I approach this topic honestly with no ax to grind one way 
or another. In fact I thought it was interesting to see wha
t might be out there. 
And I approach this thinking that I'm balanced but I understand because of my 

conclusions, people might think otherwise but that's the way it goes.
  
 What's the best way to combat all the inaccurate and misleading negative 
information
 the opponents are advancing? Well, I fundamentally I think 
people need to be listened to and make sure that their concerns are properly 

addressed.
  
 I think it's difficult for people who aren't familiar, and I don't 
- believe me I 
don't want to be high ha
nded about this, but I think people who 
- whatever 
you do in life if you do it everyday you're better than somebody who doesn't 
do it much at all or rarely.
   32   And people who are unfamiliar with the different types of scientific studies I 
can understand whe
re it might be confusing for some person that says this 
study says and another person says that, that study says that.
   In my view at least, and this is only my approach, I realize there are many 
reasons why people may want wind turbines and many not want
 wind 
turbines. My goal here is that if you're going to be making public policy based 

on science to try to make it on the best available interpretation of the science 
as you can.
  
 There maybe other reasons why you don't want wind turbines or there may be 
other reasons why you do want them. But at least my bias is make sure that 
you interpret the science in a proper way for public policy. And I think the 
answer to this question is by presentation of good science and being willing to 
listen to people 
- to li
sten to people. I don't know if that works but it's an 
effort.
  Chris Powicki:
 Robert Bryce's recently published a book entitled Power Hungry: the Myth of 
Green Energy and the Real Fuels of the Future states humans cannot live close 
to wind farms because o
f the low level noise caused by the massive blades. 
That noise say neighbors and critics disturbs sleep patterns and can cause 
headaches, dizziness and other health problems. How would you respond to 
that statement?
  
Robert McCunney:
 Well I think some of t
he studies have tried to look into these particular 
concerns and as I said, I have no doubt what so ever that there are people who 

are annoyed by various levels of noise associated with wind turbines. That's 
for sure. The study shows that. Makes sense to m
e but humans cannot live 
close to wind farms; I guess the operative question is what is close? I don't 
 33  want to sound like a lawyer but really what is close? Is it 100 meters? Is it 
1000?
  
 You all know enough physics to know the farther away you go from so
urce of 
noise the more it declines. In fact as you double the distance you get 1/4 of the 
noise farther out. And you all know that from high school physics. So the 
farther one is away from the wind turbines, clearly the less likely there will be 
concerns a
bout health implications or even noise annoyance.
  
 That noise say neighbors disturbs sleep patterns. I have no doubt whatsoever 
that some people may be affected in terms of their sleep by the type of noise 
depending on where they're living and how it affe
cts them. I hope that 
answers your question.
  Chris Powicki:
 What about people living a quarter to a half mile from the turbine?
  
Robert McCunney:
 You know, these are really good questions that I'm not able to answer on 
the top of my head. I mean I think e
very question has to be directed towards 
- just think of it logically. Depending on the size of the wind turbines, you 
know, how much kilowatts it's generating and so forth and how big it is and 
how much energy it generates.
  
 It's going to have a lot to d
o with the sound levels, how high they are and 
probably the types of frequencies as you go farther and farther away from the 
source. So my recommendation would be to try to reach a level of sound 
outside a person's home and I don't know what that distance 
could be. Maybe 
it's sometimes 500 feet; maybe other times its 1500 meters. I think it would 
really depend.
   34   Year there are. That's a good point. She raised a point that there's one and 
quarter mile. Each of these studies had different distances and you c
ould 
actually construct a study where you could do measurements at various 

intervals. That's very easily done. So the answer to the question is I don't 
know because I think each situation will be different as to what the noise level 
will be in terms of dis
tance from the types of wind turbines there.
  
 So rather than saying how far something should be away, I would propose that 
you say I want to keep the noise levels below this level whether it's 50 feet or 
3000 feet.
  
Chris Powicki:
 When one child yells, on
e thing happens; when five children yell, it's a whole 
other story. What happens to the noise from one turbine versus the noise of for 

or five turbines that are cited within a given distance from a certain house? 
How does that affect the noise level? What 
are the interactions between those 
turbines and the sound they're emitting?
  
Robert McCunney:
 I think the answer 
- the answer is obvious. The more wind turbines that 
you have, you're going to have higher noise. And I think each circumstance is 

going to be 
different.
  
 Now one of 
- as I understand it because of my experience in occupational 
noise exposure, one of the beauties if you will of noise in health at least in the 

occupational setting, and I'll try to get back on the wind turbines, is that noise 
indu
ced hearing loss is preventable.
  
 People don't have to get it. And the way you do it is you control noise at its 
source. You minimize generation in the noise wherever it is. There are all 
sorts of dampening procedures and so forth that can be done.
   35   Now 
I'm far from being an expert in the noise generated noise control 
measures from wind turbines. But it would seem to me that maybe the answer 
is in blade design, lint curvature, I don't know but that may be the wild card. 
Clearly it wouldn't be that hard to
 control the mechanical noise of the 
operation of the wind turbines because here you have noise at its source. 

There are all kinds of noise control products. It can be done.
  
 I don't know enough about controlling noise from the blades but it would 
seem to
 me that it might ultimately be the design. Yeah. It may not be I don't 
know.
  Chris Powicki:
 Who paid you to speak here tonight?
  
Robert McCunney:
 I don't know I don't even know. I haven't been paid so I don't know who 
pays me. But I think for disclosure 
purposes, you should know that when I 

was invited to be part of the American Wind Energy Panel, we received a 
grant. And you should also know that no one from the American Wind Energy 
Association or the Canadian Wind Energy Association I think who co
-spons
ored it has anything to do with the editorial content because I wouldn't 
have 
- I wouldn't have been involved.
  
 Moreover we're very familiar with this at MIT. When you get a grant for a 
conference, you have to maintain academic integrity and yeah I have t
o acknowledge the way white paper was funded by that organization.
   But I can also say, and you'll just have to believe me, that my editorial 
integrity in reviewing the studies or commenting on them was not 
compromised in one bit nor was the even any thre
at of it. I'm not on retainer 
by a AWEA I've made no further 
- rather no further projects with AWEA. So 
in terms of full disclosure I hope that helps.
  36   Chris Powicki:
 I will be glad to buy you a beer after tonight's discussion. Have you ever 
interviewed re
sidence of Vinalhaven, Maine who were interested in the 
turbines and for the turbines until they were actually turned on?
  
Robert McCunney:
 No. I haven't interviewed them. As I mentioned earlier I 
- my experience 
in this topic is really limited to particip
ation on the panel where we prepared 
the white paper and subsequently to that effort trying to keep abreast of 
literature that's published.
  
 My primary professional experience with noise has been implications on the 
workforce primarily nose induced hearin
g loss. And of course there are other 
adverse effects of noise. It's not only on hearing. But much, much higher 
levels than what you see with wind turbines.
  
Chris Powicki:
 How do you explain the theory that the only people who have negative 
impacts are th
ose who were opposed before construction when you consider 
the fact that toddlers and small children are waking up throughout the night 

experiencing ear pain?
  
Robert McCunney:
 The latter comment I have no experience with so I'll have to take it at face 
value. What's the first part of the question?
  Chris Powicki:
 The fact that 
- I think you answered it.
  
Robert McCunney:
 Oh how do I explain...
  
((Crosstalk))
   37  Robert McCunney:
 ...well all I can tell you 
- oh, I think the first question was how do you 
explai
n the theory 
- it's not a theory it was just from that report. That only 
people who have negative 
- it's not only people. Believe me, there are other 
people too. It's not just only people who have a negative impact.
   To refresh your memory, the study show
ed that a lot of people were annoyed 
and they tried to find out what was it about the people who reported being 

annoyed that might be of value. So the researches did this. This isn't my 
interpretation.
  
 They actually presented a table in the report. If an
ybody's interested, I can 
reference you to the article and you can look at it yourself. I don't know. I'm 

not trained in psychology or psychiatry or some of the other disciplines that 
might understand why certain people who report don't like something then
 has 
certain symptoms associated with noise. I don't know. I just presented the data 

as the investigators in the study did.
  
Chris Powicki:
 How close would you feel comfortable having a wind turbine cited near your 
home?
  
Robert McCunney:
 You know, that's 
a good question. And as I said earlier, I think the answer 
would be based on the sound level. That's what I would want to look at. And 

there have been a number of approaches that have been undertaken to try to 
figure out what the most appropriate sound lev
el is.
  
 There have been some studies that have looked at what is the sound level at 
night, you know, without wind turbines. And then if you put a wind turbine in 
that ambient background level shouldn't increase by a certain level; everything 
from five dec
ibels to ten decibels up to tossed about.
   38   And I'm not an expert on all these regulatory initiatives. My focus is limited to 
what I presented tonight. I can tell you that I live in Cohasset, which is right 
across from the Hull wind turbine, and I can see 
it from my house and it never 
occurred to me to be worried about it even before I got more involved in this 
particular topic.
  
 Now based on what I know, what I would do is I would go through and 
tabulate all the studies because you see some of the informa
tion there and put 
out the sound levels versus distance and try to get some interpretation of okay 

at a distance of 500 feet the sound levels are 40, 1000 feet they're 35.
  
 But its still going to be limited by the type of wind turbines you have and how 
many of them you have. But to try to answer the question directly I think, you 
know, keep it below 35 decibels; something along those lines; maybe 40. I'll 

have to be honest with you I don't know.
  
 I haven't given careful enough thought to this question to 
give you a good 
answer. But I would approach answering your question by tabulating the 
results that I just described that I haven't tabulated yet to try to make sense of 
it.  
Chris Powicki:
 What is the recommended decibel level for an average person to rem
ain asleep 
and how does it compare to wind turbine decibel levels?
  Robert McCunney:
 That's a good question and I don't know the answer to it. I don't know how 
low noise has to be or the sound has to be to promote healthy sleeping. I can 

tell you that sudd
en impulse like sounds are more disturbing than chronic 
humming sounds like the humming of a motor is less objectionable than say a 
sudden sound associated with a car honking or a explosion or lightning and 
thunder or 
- obviously you wouldn't hear lighting
; but thunder for example.
  39    And in occupational studies that's described as impulse noise. There's either 
continuous noise from the operations of motors and so forth and then there's 
impulse noise, which is 
- and clearly impulse noise is much more troubli
ng to 
most people.
  Chris Powicki:
 Some of the studies you reported looks at turbines of varying sizes. Are larger 
turbines potentially noisier and louder? How does size influence sound 
production?
  
Robert McCunney:
 Yeah a very good question and I really d
on't have enough background to 
give you a good answer. I know fundamentally that as a wind turbine gets 

larger, there's going to be more noise. But as I said, some of the mechanical 
operations can be controlled at its source.
  
 I've also heard that there's
 better and better design of wind turbines. And 
again, I'm not an engineer. I'm not really familiar with some of the nuances. 

But from what I've been told at least that the newer turbines tend to be less 
noisy whether that's the case I don't know.
  
Chris P
owicki:
 There are several questions that address turbines in local communities. Here's 
one and I think I'm generally going to talk these out because my guess is that 
the doctor's not familiar with the details but here's an example. The town of 
Bourne for M
ass Military Academy has a turbine in Buzzards Bay.
  
 All of Taylor's Points, the neighborhoods surrounding the turbine, can hear it. 
No matter where you're located you can hear it. Have you heard concerns 
about that project and why were no studies done an
d discussed relative to 
local turbines?
   40  Robert McCunney:
 I'm sympathetic to the person who posed that question but I just don't 
know enough detail to really give you a really good answer actually. I think 
one way of knowing is before a wind turbines cited
 is get some measurements 
of noise that they're relatively straightforward to do with sound level meters 
and even frequency distribution's not complicated to do anymore. That'd be 
one approach and you could have a pre and post evaluation.
  
 Part of the pro
blem with some of these studies, and even the studies that I 
talked about, is that there's no pre and post assessment. I mean that'd be one 

way of checking whether there's a link between the symptoms people have 
described and the wind turbines is you could
 have a pre and post study. 
Another way would be to look at a control group where you evaluate residents 
who don't live near a wind turbine.
  
 Now that can be tricky because everything else has to be the same, you know, 
no power plants, no (unintelligible)
 there are a lot of different confounding 
factors that I talked about earlier that would need to be addressed.
  Chris Powicki:
 How many studies have been done on the turbines that are within 1000 feet of 
homes, not one and a half miles or up to five miles 
as in the AWEA, 
CANWEA report?
  
Robert McCunney:
 So since the CANWEA, AWEA report these other studies I described in 
more detail particularly the American study of Texas there were about 15 

wind turbines in Texas. So there have been additional studies that
 have tried to 
look at the noise levels.
   Now to answer your question specifically, I can't answer that off the top of my 
head. I'd have to go back to the individual studies as I tried to answer to an 
 41  earlier question and just tabulate what the distances 
are. I mean I could even 
see it right now.
  
 You'd have one column would be the power generation. Another column 
would be the distance. Another column would be the sound level associated 
with that distance and the frequency weighting. And you'd start to ge
t your 
answer and then you could create a curve out of that.
   And you could start making some decisions about what's too high and what's 
not too high. I don't know the answer off the top of my head but that's how I 
would go about answering that question.
  
Chris Powicki:
 I live in Falmouth, Massachusetts and unfortunately I do not live in a uterus. 
For those of us who are deeply annoyed with the sound at 40 to 45 decibels or 
greater, how are we to get a sound sleep when living within a half mile of the 
wind
 turbine.
  
Robert McCunney:
 Well, I'm sympathetic to the person who posed that question. You may 
have seen there is a dampening affect that you get from closing your windows. 

You can reduce the decibel level. Believe it or not, I mean that may not be 
somet
hing that's acceptable to people. I mean but you asked me a question. 
That's the first (idea). We have an expression keep it simple stupid. Do the 

first thing 
- do the easiest thing first. So the first thing would be close the 
windows.
   You may not be abl
e to close the windows when its 98 degrees and 95% 
humidity and you don't have air conditioning. I don't know because you're 

going to get sound transmitted through the windows.
   42   There are also better insulation techniques if people do renovations. I'm not
 saying that should be done but a lot of the good insulation material that's 
available now also has noise dampening properties, but really that maybe too 
little too late.
  
 Frankly that's about the only thing I could think of off the top of my head. 
Again,
 I'm not an expert in that but I'm just trying to apply what I know in 
other settings.
  Chris Powicki:
 Do you know what turbines the NRC, National Research Council, used to 
determine the 35 to 45 decibels at 300 meters?
  
Robert McCunney:
 No. But I 
- no but if the person is seriously interested, I'll get you the 
reference for the answer to that question. But I don't know it off the top of my 

head.
  
Chris Powicki:
 What do you say to the comment that those with other physiological, 
anthropological research tra
ditions would disagree with your assertion that 
statistical large sample results are of higher quality than case studies?
  Robert McCunney:
 Well, first of all, this isn't my opinion. If people 
- I would advise not 
necessarily listening to me in terms of in
terpreting scientific literature. All of 
- many of you here (I don't want to sound flippant), but the U.S. Government 
supports the National Cancer Institute. That's our National Cancer Institute.
  
 We support the World Health Organization. We provide about
 30 to 35% of 
the World Health Organization's budget. Within the World Health 

Organization there's the International Agency for Research on Cancer or as 
well call it IR.
   43   And if anybody's interested in understanding in how the International 
Community of S
cientists interpret studies to affect 
- to determine causality or 
cause and effect, I could refer you to the monograph of the International 

Agency on Research on Cancer where it lays out the value of various types of 
studies prospective longitudinal studie
s, retrospective, cross sectional case 
control, case series and so forth in terms of the impact and drawing causal 

inferences from the results of those studies.
  
 If people want, you could look at the Web site IR 
- iarc.fr for France. It's 
located in Franc
e and look into the guidelines for interpreting research studies. 
So that these really aren't my policies. These are really international 
guidelines for interpreting scientific evidence for determining causality.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Some of the studies you quo
ted, you (distance from) turbines one from 
Sweden people lived one and a quarter miles from turbines. Based on your 
research, what is an appropriate set back and distance for industrial scale wind 
turbines or would you use another measure for set back?
  
Robert McCunney:
 You know, that's a good question. It's a frequently asked question is how 
far you should be from a wind turbine and the direct answer is it depends. And 

I'm not trying to evade a good question because it really depends on the type 
of wind tu
rbine that's there. Obviously terrain has a lot to do with how sound 
is transmitted. Flat terrain noise is going to be more readily transmitted than 
say hilly terrain.
  
 And these are questions that can be answered. I mean there should be enough 
engineerin
g data out there that a lot of these answers to these questions can be 
modeled so you can get reasonable ideas about how far to situate wind 

turbines from homes so that people aren't adversely affected.
   44   There ought to be a compromise in all this. I mean 
I think in many things in 
life a little bit of give and take and try to find out what's best for everybody 
concerned because it's not in everybody's 
- it's not in anybody's interest; the 
developers have people concerned about health implications. It's not 
in the 

person who is experiencing these health related issues.
  
Chris Powicki:
 How do turbines affect our pets?
  
Robert McCunney:
 I'm sorry?
  
Chris Powicki:
 How do turbines affect our pets?
  
Robert McCunney:
 Again these are good questions. This forum is sh
owing me how little I 
know about a lot of simple things. But it's fascinating, you know, and now 

you're asking me about pets. The direct answer is I don't know. But you know 
what's really interesting about pets; many of you may know this. Do you 
know how m
any animals dies in the Tsunami in Indonesia? Very, very, very 
few. In fact none they sensed the vibration.
   So I think animals have 
- well obviously they have different sense. I mean 
people know how dogs can smell. Their olfactory nerve is much better th
an a 

lot of ours. So I don't know. Maybe the vibration affects them. I don't know 
and I don't know. I'm not sophisticated enough or had a study to answer that 
question.
  
Chris Powicki:
 If it's not low frequency noise that's annoying people, why talk about 
it? Talk 
about aerodynamic modulation, the swish
-noise that annoys people at night.
  
Robert McCunney:
 Good point about low frequency noise. The reason that we brought up the 
low frequency noise is there had been people that had advanced the theory 
 45  that low
 frequency noise in the corresponding vibration associated with the 
low frequency noise is adversely affecting human health. So that's why the 
topic was addressed head on. The second part of that question?
  
Chris Powicki:
 About swish
-swish (unintelligible)
.  
Robert McCunney:
 Yeah. You're absolutely right. From what I've read and from speaking to 
people it's the swish
-swish sound that most bothers people. Also the 
infrequency of it. I mean it's not like a continuous sound that you're going to 
hear so the int
ermittent nature of the sound and the swish
-swish sound.
  
 Now remember the swish
-swish sound has been evaluated. That's about 500 to 
1000 hertz; clearly a lot higher than that low frequency sound.
  Man:
 (Unintelligible).
  
Robert McCunney:
 The swish
-swish?
  
Man:
 (Unintelligible).
  
Robert McCunney:
 Yeah that's a $64,000 question. It certainly can be annoying. And I think 
annoyance can have a whole range of effects where it could be certainly 

troubling to a person. If affects their sleep. It could be 
- annoya
nce could be 
standing too long in a line at the post office or being stuck in traffic. There's a 

lot of different types of annoyance. I'm not trying to minimize it but 
annoyance means different things to different people.
  
 And I've found to try and unders
tand this whole issue is it's hard to get an 
objective definition of what annoyance means in terms of the health 

implications. A lot of people have struggled with it. There have been these 
 46  debates about whether it's a health affect or not even not even goi
ng in there. 
Just describing what annoyance means to maybe you or to me or to other 
people in the audience this is not an easy exercise. In fact I haven't seen it 
vigorously addressed yet unless somebody else has.
  
Man:
 (Unintelligible).
  
Robert McCunney:
 I'm sorry.
  
Man:
 (Unintelligible).
  
Robert McCunney:
 Maybe, maybe not. It depends. I mean that's the only honest answer 
- only 
way to honestly answer your question. I mean it really depends some people 
- everybody knows people that everything rolls off the
ir back and their never 
bothered by anything...
  ((Crosstalk))
  
Robert McCunney:
 I'm sorry?
  
Woman:
 (Unintelligible)
  
Robert McCunney:
 Right.
  
Man:
 (Unintelligible).
  
Robert McCunney:
 Right.
  
((Crosstalk))
   47  Robert McCunney:
 Sure.
  Man:
 (Unintelligible).
  
Robert McCunney:
 Well, as I said earlier 
- as I said earlier, I think annoyance there's a whole 
range of affects and clearly on one extreme annoyance can get to the point that 

it bothers people; maybe upsets their stomach, makes them feel that they have 
a headache, difficulty sleeping. There's no question annoyance at extreme can 
cause symptoms and I've acknowledged that on a number of occasions in 

tonight's presentation.
  
 But what might annoy one person to have the affects that I just described 
might not b
e sufficient to cause the same problems for somebody else. There's 
such a variability, individual variability in how people respond to annoyance, 

which made it 
- makes it so difficult to arrive at a definition that everybody 
agrees on.
  Chris Powicki:
 We'r
e going to not take statements from the audience. I'm going to move on. 
Here is another question on annoyance though. Compare the noise annoyance 

from nearby road traffic say 200 feet away particularly trucks to that of a wind 
turbine 1000 feet away at a r
esidence. If the A weighted measurement from 
the turbine at the house is less than 10 dBA of above the ambient, should the 

wind turbine be denied? Should the truck traffic be rerouted?
  
Robert McCunney:
 Well, these are public policy questions and I'm no ex
pert in public policy. 
Let me try to answer 
- is this the one? Compare the noise annoyance from 
nearby road traffic 200 feet to that of a wind turbine 1000 feet away.
  
 Some of the studies tried to do that and I think the answer is it depends. If the 
A wei
ghted 
- as to whether road traffic is worse than wind turbines or vice 
 48  versa. I think you can find circumstances where either one maybe more 
annoying than the other depending on the local circumstances.
  
 If the A weighted measurement from the turbine at t
he house is less than 10 
dBA scale above the ambient should the wind turbine be denied? Well again, 

I'm not an expert on public policy. But I've seen proposals just like the one 
that's been indicated here that as long as after the wind turbines installed i
t's 
not greater than ten decibels above background. I've seen other proposals that 

say it shouldn't be above five. I don't know enough right now to answer that 
question. (Noise level)...
  
Jason Gifford:
 I just wanted to comment briefly that we held a Webin
ar on Tuesday which 
included a panel on which appeared two acoustic engineers and many of the 

technical questions that are being asked tonight may be answered in their 
presentation and in the audio and the 
- our posting of that will also include all 
of the
 questions and associated answers.
   So those will be posted on the New England Wind Forum. If you could 
Google New England Wind Forum, you'll be able to find it. Since the Webinar 
was only yesterday, it will take us until the 27th to have all the informat
ion 
posted. But again Q&As, presentation, and audio will all be there and I'm 
happy to direct anyone to that afterwards.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Thanks Jason. How does the fluctuation in wind speed affect sound levels 
from the wind turbine?
  
Robert McCunney:
 As th
e blade increases its velocity, there's more noise. Whether there will 
be further ambient noise I don't know whether there's studies out there that 

have looked at it. I'm not aware of them. Where you'd measure the velocity of 
the turbines and the correspon
ding noise at different distances.
  49    This young lady over here asked me about two to three hours of sleep. Only a 
fool would say two to three hours of sleep is healthy. I mean I've gone through 
a lot different friends. I think I've had one friend who could
 get by on four or 
five hours of sleep. So I'm sympathetic. If you're only getting two to three 
hours of sleep, that is health problem. I don't know what the cause of it is but I 
mean it's certainly 
- something needs to be addressed.
  
Woman:
 (Unintelligibl
e).
  
Chris Powicki:
 Did the studies you reported report the ages of those in the study and whether 
age level affected their annoyance level?
  
Robert McCunney:
 I don't think so. That's called age stratification. You can do that in research 
studies but I don
't think they've looked at percentage of people at various age 
increments who've reported health concerns.
  
Chris Powicki:
 How would you define a malfunctioning turbine by noise standards?
  
Robert McCunney:
 I don't know that those definitions are out there
. I mean as far as I'm 
aware. I mean I 
- if you want a rule of thumb, it shouldn't be greater 
- at the 
very 
- no more than ten decibels higher than background outside your house. 
Some people think five; some people think non; there shouldn't be higher than
 
background at all. So there are a lot of different opinions on this topic.
  
Chris Powicki:
 In the (Henderson) 2000 study I wanted to understand whether the odds ratio 
was screened for causality? We're people opposed to wind and therefore more 
annoyed or w
ere they more opposed to wind because they were annoyed?
   50  Robert McCunney:
 As I understand what the investigators did they sent out a questionnaire to 
people who lived in proximity of wind turbines. There were a whole series of 
questions that were asked. A
nd because they tried to find out, I mean, they 
tried to find out why people were annoyed and why the reported annoyance.
   And there were four or five different factors that they looked at including 
proximity to the wind turbine. You would think theoretic
ally that the closer 
you were, you would have a greater percentage of people annoyed. That 

would be a logical thought. And then you'd go to sound level and a lot of other 
parameters. And the one that jumped out at with highest risk was the attitude 
towards
 wind turbines.
  
 Now it was a cross sectional study, which means at one point in time 
- cross 
section studies we do let's say a cholesterol level of everybody here in the 

audience. That's a cross sectional study. Longitudinal studies we do it today. 
We do
 it next month.
  
 Like the (unintelligible) study do it a year from now and three years and look 
for trends. These studies are cross sectional. What that means is you don't 
know whether the chicken came before the egg or the egg came before the 
chicken.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Given the low number of people involved in the European noise study and the 
high standards for statistical significance, should public health policy only be 
based on statistical significance or might there be non significantly 
- non significa
nt affects that are still a potential concern.
  Robert McCunney:
 First of all, statistical significance is not the major hurdle in terms of 
interpreting the results of a scientific study. Certainly statistical significance 

adds weight to the results but th
ere are many, many factors that need to be 
 51  addressed from a scientific point of view to draw causal inferences that is to 
draw a connection that A caused B. Statistical significance as the author 
indicated there's only one element of it.
  
 Quite frankly if
 you see a number of studies and you see patterns emerging, 
even if they may not be statistically significant, they maybe persuasive enough 

to warrant attention. So I agree. I don't think over emphasis should be placed 
on statistical significance.
  
Chris P
owicki:
 Do you believe that the noise problem can be real. Last month in Vermont I 
believe you told Dr. (Neisembaum) that you believe noise problems can be 
real. Is this true?
  
Robert McCunney:
 Yeah. I stand by what I said in Vermont and I'll say the same 
thing 
tonight. There's no question that there are people who are troubled by the 

noise levels associated with wind turbines.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Noise vibration signatures are usually taken on something rotating equipment. 
When the levels increase, it's usuall
y a sign of a problem developing; (glaring) 
failures are an example. Can you comment on that?
  Robert McCunney:
 You know, I think it's a good point. I'm just not familiar with that science. 
I'm not an acoustic engineer but it certainly makes sense to me th
at if 
something mechanical is not operating properly, it's going to generate noise. 
Probably a lot higher than it would otherwise. Think about mufflers and so 
forth.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Have you done or seen any comparative research on the affects of sound on 
people who are living near other power generation facilities such as power 
plants, both fossil and nuclear?
  52   Robert McCunney:
 There are environmental studies that have looked at those sources of noise. 
I'm just not familiar with them frankly. There have be
en studies of people 
living near airports, people living near waste reclamation plants and so forth. 
So those studies are out there.
  
 And we just focused on the studies associated with wind turbines and as you 
can tell, some of the studies tried to compar
e the affect of the noise of wind 
turbines to other environmental sources of noise like road traffic and railroad 

car, and airplanes and so forth. But I'm not familiar with that literature.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Could you describe in more detail how road noise a
nd conversations can be 
louder than turbine noise?
  Robert McCunney:
 Well remember the diagram I showed earlier with the noise levels 
associated with certain activities? Normal conversation may be about 50 to 70 

decibels. Clearly if someone's shouting, it'
s going to be higher. Road noise 
from the tables out there about 50 to 60 decibels. So I think that's one of the 

reasons I put that table up there at the beginning so you could see comparative 
noise levels.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Have you read Dr. Pierpont's book
 or studies and are you aware she's an MD 
and PhD in population biology behavior ecology for Princeton?
  
Robert McCunney:
 I've read Dr. Pierpont's book and I've looked into case series of ten 
families. I think it represents about 39 people.
  Chris Powicki:
 If U.S. law says that you cannot sleep deprive prisoners, why then are turbines 
allowed to make noise that keep people awake at night?
   53  Robert McCunney:
 Of course sleep deprivation is inappropriate from a lot of different points 
of view. And I don't know 
that I can answer that question any better than I 
tried earlier. Ideally wind turbine development should be such that people 
don't suffer adverse health affects.
  
 That's one of the reasons I went into occupational medicine in the first place is 
I wanted t
o make sure that people who work didn't have to get sick and have 
risk of cancer from work whatever that may be. And I think there should be 

balance between environmental initiatives and human health. So the people 
don't suffer adverse health affects.
  
Chr
is Powicki:
 You said that in the Tsunami no animals died. They heard the vibration and 
left the area. Is this what would happen to our wildlife?
  
Robert McCunney:
 I don't know.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Have you treated people with health complaints like sleep depri
vation due to 
wind turbines, wind turbine syndrome or any other types of diseases or is your 

opinion based on reading other studies?
  
Robert McCunney:
 I've had experience with sleep deprivation with a number of conditions. 
One is obstructive sleep apnea. I
 don't know if people have heard of 
obstructive sleep apnea where people may need to sleep with the CPAP.
  
 I've had experience with shift workers particularly interstate truck drivers who 
are plagued with sleep deprivation. And it may seem exotic but even
 senior 
executives who are troubled with jet lag who have to fly 12, 14 hours have 
meetings in Asia, Africa and so forth. So I have some experience with sleep 
deprivation as a clinician independent of the sleep deprivation that's been 
reported in the conte
xt of wind turbines.
  54   Chris Powicki:
 Since amplitude aerodynamic modulation seem to be the source of annoyance, 
would you agree perhaps that absolute and relative sound regulations are the 
wrong way to approach noise issues and if vast degrees of amplitude
 modulation are perhaps a better area of focus?
  Robert McCunney:
 That may very well be the case. Amplitude modification. But I think that 
the way when the situation's been approached as far as I'm aware is by 

measuring sound levels and more recently frequ
ency distribution of the sound.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Do they manufactures of turbines supply a standard noise profile of their 
models or does the public have to define them when developments are 
proposed?
  
Robert McCunney:
 Man I don't know. These are excellent 
questions. If you guys are putting 
together how can you ding the speaker, you've done a good job. I don't know 

the answer to that question because as just think again of the wind turbine. 
You have a mechanical box, which generates noise. That can be contro
lled at 
its source. I'm not so sure about the blades.
   My sense is it's really in the engineering design. And some questions posed to 
me is why are there three blades? Why not four, five, why not two? I don't 
know. But I ultimately think that the control 
of that noise is going to have to 
be in blade design as well as distance from source.
  
Chris Powicki:
 How do you explain Spain's new laws relating to turbines that they can not be 
operated within a mile from homes?
  
Robert McCunney:
 I don't know the basis 
of Spain's regulation. My sense is it probably has to 
do with the noise level that they may have measured in the proximity of 
 55  homes. The World Health Organization has tried to address ambient noise 
levels in the proximity of homes and you've seen levels th
rown out as 35, less 
than 35, less than 40, less than 45 because (in fact) and there are a lot of points 
of view on that.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Have you read the recent article in Audiology Today documenting the impact 
wind turbines have on health?
  
Robert McCun
ney:
 I haven't seen that paper.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Okay. If not would you do so and let us know at a later date if you change 
your opinion (unintelligible).
  
Robert McCunney:
 I've been in science long enough to know if new information comes you 
better be open
 to looking at it and if you need to you change your opinion. I'm 
very open to changing my opinion about anything persuasive.
  
Chris Powicki:
 How would you view the Hippocratic oath and in light of wind turbines and 
health issues?
  
Robert McCunney:
 Well th
ere's a fancy word out there primum non nocere, which means first 
don't do any harm. It's part of the Hippocratic oath. I think the first approach is 

make sure that there's good science and I understand science. And that's what 
I tried to do. I didn't make
 any of this up.
  
 Anybody here in the audience who wanted to put the time and effort in it 
could have done the same thing to see what's out there and see what's 
published. Try to look at what the authors conclude themselves and don't 
change the author's i
nterpretation.
   56  (Woman):
 (Unintelligible).
  Robert McCunney:
 Well I think people should be heard. Certainly as a physician, I believe my 
patients and again I'm not an expert on public policy but there are public 

forums for where you should be able to speak
 your mind if you feel a certain 
way. I would fully support you speaking your mind. I mean I don't know what 

- any gag orders I know nothings about that.
  
 So I told my involvement with the American Wind Energy Association was 
they asked me to be part of a
 panel, look at the literature and write it up and 
that's it.
   So I don't know anything about gag orders. But I would encourage anybody to 
speak their mind whether it's verbally, whether you want to write and op ed 
piece, letter to be editor, write your o
wn article. You should have your 
perspective heard. This is a democracy and people should be able to present 

their point of view.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Aren't there a lot of reasons for sleep deprivation that have nothing to do with 
turbines even when you're liv
ing under them or near them?
  
Robert McCunney:
 Yes of course. But I say this with some caution because certainly in a 
forum like this if I say this that is all the confounding causes 
- remember not 
all lung cancer is due to asbestos. Some is simply cigaret
te smoking.
  
 There's a lot of reasons why people have sleep deprivation. Maybe it's noise, 
maybe it's not. People get sleep deprivation for medications, medication 
problems, alcohol abuse, substance abuse, GERD, gastroesophageal reflux 
disease; when they 
lie flat, they start aspirating, obstructive sleep apnea, 
stress.
  57    The rule of thumb we learned in medical school if you have trouble falling 
asleep, its anxiety. If you wake up in the middle of sleep, it's often depression. 
So clearly there are many, man
y reasons for sleep deprivation. Food, the type 
of food you eat; you have a cup of coffee before you jump in bed; there's 

many, many reasons why people have sleep deprivation. Certainly noise is 
one of them.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Based on all the studies you've 
read, do you have an opinion as to why 
annoyance from wind turbines noise maybe reported at levels of 40 dBA and 

less whereas other sources such as road traffic have not generally generated 
complaints as such levels?
  
Robert McCunney:
 It seems to me that i
t's that swish
-swish sound that we've talked about a 
number of times tonight; at least that's how I looked at the literature.
  Chris Powicki:
 Do you have knowledge first hand of people suffering wind turbine syndrome 
or even sleep deprivation from turbine 
noise?
  
Robert McCunney:
 No. No one's come in to see me about that that's actually raised a concern. 
I mean I'm not 
- not yet.
  Chris Powicki:
 How can you support the conclusion in your report that states adverse health 
affects alleged to be associated wit
h wind turbines are insufficient to advocate 
for funding for further study?
  Robert McCunney:
 Well, first of all at the risk of sounding horribly glib, anybody like myself 
who's in an academic setting and publishes, there's always room for more 

research. T
here's always room 
- believe it or not people are still studying 
smoking and health affects. They're still studying asbestos.
  58    They're 
- and I don't mean to be glib by saying that. There's always room to do 
more. I think the intent of that comment, and th
at was really a committee 

comment, was that the information that's available does not appear to justify 
more intensive study than is already out there; that reasonable conclusions can 
be drawn from the information that's available.
  
 That's not to say you 
can't always do more. Yu can always do more to help 
understand. Some of the great questions that have been posed tonight, how far 

away should a dwelling be; the answer is based on the noise. Maybe noise 
levels could be done frequency distributions measurem
ents and so forth.
  
Chris Powicki:
 And this is going to be our last question. Can we whisper sweet nothings in 
your ear at 35 dBA?
  
Robert McCunney:
 Depends on who's doing the whispering. Thank you very much.
  
Chris Powicki:
 Thank you. Thanks very much for
 your attendance tonight. On behalf of Cape 
& Islands Renewable Energy Collaborative and the New England Wind 

Energy Education Project, we appreciate your attention, all your questions and 
your interest in a sustainable energy future. Thank you.
  
 END
  1  On-Line Participant Questions During the 
simulcasts question and answer session, 
on-line participants entered their questions 
into a chat box. The questi
ons below were copied as they were submitted.
 The 
answers to these 
questions ca
n be found in the transcript
 above, though, many 
of the answers were in response to questio
ns 
posed by the audience rather than through the on
-line question form
.  Bob Grace
 Asked
: Question: In Pederson 2007 study, I wanted to understand whether the od
ds 
ratio was screened for causa
lity. Were people opposed to wind and ther
efore more annoyed, or 
were they more opposed
 to wind bec
ause they were annoyed? Thanks you.
  suzanne sayer
 Asked: 
You mentioned a Dr.
 Pierpont. What research has she done and where?
  Milton Fistel
 Asked: 
Milton Fistel Consultant Engineer from Swam
pscott MA. When will 
Dr.McCunne
y be available on th
e NEWEEP web site?
  Peter Skrzypczak
 Changes Question To: 
Have other species [than humans] been studied for 
effects of Infrasound and VLF and ULF [frequencies], i.e., sound pressure waves? For example, 
African bull elephants are known to communicate for h
undreds of miles using infrasound in their 

herds. Other species also use such communication. Are there any reported changes in beahviors, 

populations, habits, or habitats for non
-human species of life [insects, plants, animals, microbes] 
? [Peter from Marl
borough]
  Milton Fistel
 Changes Question To: 
Milton Fistel Consultant Engineer from Swampscott MA. 
When will Dr.McCunnery be available on the NEWEEP web site? Is there a run of thumb for the 
the minuimal distance that the noise does not annoy people.
  Peter Skrzypczak
 Changes Question To: 
Have other species [than humans] been studied for 
effects of Infrasound and VLF and ULF [frequencies], i.e., sound pressure waves? For example, 

African bull elephants are known to communicate for hundreds of miles using 
infrasound in their 

herds [at levels that are not audible to humans], ostensibly due to the ability for it to travel long 

distances . Other species also use such infrasound communication. Are there any reported 

changes in behaviors, populations, habits, or
 habitats for non
-human species of life [insects, 
plants, animals, microbes] ? [Peter from Marlborough]
   2  Blossom Hoag
 Asked: 
It would be interesting to know how blade design contributes to noise and 
if different companies' blades or turbines comtribute mo
re or less noise.
  cheryl l
 Asked: 
Have you read the recent article in Audiology Today, documenting the impact 
wind turbines have on health? If not, would you do so and let us know at a later date if you have 
   cheryl l
 Asked: 
Have you read the recent a
rticle in Audiology Today, documenting the impact 
wind turbines have on health? If not, would you do so and let us know at a later date if you have 
changed your opinions you have provided tonight?
  Christopher Menge
 Asked: 
Based on all the studies you've 
read, do you have an opinion as to 
why annoyance from wind tubine noise may be reported at levels of 40 dBA and less, whereas 

other sources such as road traffic have not generally generated complaints at such levels?
 