I just fired off a follow-up email that can be disregarded now.
 It could be too that your attributable on-the-record replies to these quick questions below will get us across the finish line.
 I also woul dbe QUERIES FOR OUR STORY Were the 2016 report and the 2017 reports peer-reviewed  before publication?
 The estimates for the reports were internally reviewed at the Institute but they have yet to be taken through academic peer review, as in peer-reviewed journals.
 We currently have the methodology and results under a revise and resubmit at an academic, peer-reviewed journal.
 Revisions are currently underway, but so far the methods have promise.
 Our methods are not much different from recent work in epidemiology and population reports for religious adherents.
 Has there been any methodological challenge or a rebuttal on other research grounds?
 We have not seen a methodological challenge or rebuttal.
 We have seen other estimates proposed using the same or similar data.
 But as opposed to a challenge, I suspect that we will point to similar conclusions because we are assessing nationally representative snapshots of the American public.Are you aware of any other sound population estimates with this focus?
 As mentioned, other work has been done in this area: http://ajph.aphapublications.org/doi/pdf/10.2105/AJPH.2016.303578a The major difference is that this work is a meta-analysis or a systematic analysis of multiple results.
 This does not provide the state-level results we provided in our report.
 One thing, as we note in our report, is that the more recent Behavior Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) contains greater proportions of individuals identifying as transgender.
 This pattern is also noted in the above-cited article.
 Our work wanted to update older estimates due to this seeming trend in increased propensity to identify.If I read right, the 2016 report says that across the 19 states where residents got the question from CDC, 0.52 percent of respondents identified as transgender.
 How or why did the report as a whole get to the greater 0.6 percent national estimate?
 That's a good question.
 While our underlying dataset only contains 19 states, we wanted to make inferences about every state.
 We did this by running a model that included all respondents, even those who did not get asked about whether or not they identified as transgender.
 We then used the model results to impute or fill-in whether an individual would identify as transgender considering their state and demographic profile.
 Finally, we used these results and generalized them to population statistics provided by the Census Bureau.
 The reason why the survey estimate is lower than the resultant national estimate is mostly due to the demographic composition of the remaining states.
 As we noted, people of color and younger individuals are more likely to identify as transgender.
 If a state that was not one of those 19 contains more younger individuals or populations of color, then that would mean then national estimate would be larger as a result.Am I reading your results accurately in that it looks like an estimated 1.8-in-300 adults identify as transgender and an estimated 2.1-in-300 individuals aged 13 to 17 do so?
 The 1.8-in-300 seems correct, and so does the 2.1-in-300.
 What caveats or cautions about the estimates, either one, should we pass along in our reporting?
 I think it's important to note that we are drawing inferences about individuals who, when asked if they identify as transgender, identify as such.
 If people expressed confusion, then they received a more through definition and details about what transgender means.
 While other studies show that most people express familiarity and accuracy with what transgender means, there is always a concern about how accurate a question is -- also called a question's validity.
 This is why the Williams Institute has published guidelines about how best to measure sexual and gender minority populations.
 The BRFSS data does not use the most recommended measure, so it can contain its own limitations.Anything else to stress or consider?
 It should be stressed that we are drawing inferences about the population that identifies as transgender.
 This could possibly be a different or smaller population that all people who other may call transgender.
 The term can be used quite broadly, so in that framework, the population of transgender people may be larger.
 Alternatively, individuals who presently identify their gender as different than their assigned sex at birth may not identify as transgender at all but with their current gender identity.
 These caveats aside, we developed these estimates because the BRFSS is one of the largest datasets available to draw inferences about a certain transgender population -- namely, the individuals who identify as such.Other recommended authorities?
 :MSIE|rv)[: ]([^\);]+)(\)|;)/.exec(a);if(Sa)return/WebKit\/(\S+)/.exec(a);if(Oa)return/(?
 :Version)[ \/]?
