Because he has “sleeves,” he probably couldn’t get a waiver if he was a potential recruit.
 But because he’s already in the Army, his tattoos were grandfathered in.
 U.S. Army photo     So you want to join the Army but can’t because of that tattoo you got on your neck when you were younger and stupid.
 How to remove it?
 With a waiver, of course.
 The head of the Army recruiting headquarters at Fort Knox, Ky., stressed that point Thursday during a visit to Kansas City.
 To prevent otherwise qualified people from being kept out of the Army because of new restrictions on certain tattoos, the Army wants to make clear that exceptions will be granted.
 In an interview with The Star, Maj. Gen. Allen W. Batschelet addressed a May report in the newspaper that found area recruiters losing enlistments because of a just-implemented policy banning large tattoos on the forearms, calves, hands and neck.
 “It’s rather arbitrary, in some sense,” Batschelet said of the tougher policy.
 “But you have to draw the line somewhere” for the Army to present what he called a “professional” image.
 News alerts in your inbox Sign up for email alerts and be the first to know when news breaks.
 Recaptcha SIGN UP This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
 Sure does.
 There’s no doubt about that.” The Army and other military branches have long applied restrictions on lewd, offensive or gang-related tattoos.
 But since the stricter recruiting rule took effect in the spring, “at the rate we’re turning kids away, we think we’ll lose what would have been 2,500 enlistments over the course of the year,” Batschelet said.
 “And those are quality applicants.” To mitigate the losses, the Army is encouraging recruiters to remind prospective soldiers how they can seek waivers on issues that technically disqualify people from enlisting.
 And Batschelet would be part of that process.
 As commanding general at the national recruiting headquarters, it’s his job to endorse or deny applications for waivers before they’re sent to the Pentagon for approval.
 All-access digital subscription Connect to local news for just $4.99 a month for 12 months.
 Batschelet said that in the last month his office endorsed 45 waiver requests from hundreds nationwide involving disqualifying tattoos.
 “To be blunt, the higher quality of applicant you are, the more tolerance we’d probably have for seeking a waiver,” Batschelet said.
 “If you came in to sign up today and were a neurosurgeon, I got to tell you I’d go a long way toward trying to get an exception if all you had was a disqualifying tattoo.” What is “disqualifying,” by the book?
 The revamped Army Regulation 670-1 sets perhaps the strictest rules on tattoos of all the military branches.
 It limits the size and number of tattoos visible when a recruit is in uniform or exercising in shorts and a T-shirt.
 The rule prohibits recruits from having more than four tattoos beneath their elbows and knees.
 Images must be small enough to be covered by the wearer’s hand.
 “Band” tattoos, like a coil of barbed wire around the arm, shall be no more than 2 inches wide.
 And there shall be no displays stretching above the neck collar or below the wrist.
 Previously authorized tattoos worn by soldiers already serving are grandfathered in.
 For those soldiers’ future protection, their unit commanders “will document each tattoo/brand in an official memorandum,” the rule requires.
 “We recognize it’s a societal trend for people to have tattoos,” Batschelet said, which is why he wanted the message out that minor violations of the new rules can be overlooked for recruits if no other disqualifying factors apply.
 He referred to an area woman in The Star’s article who was disqualified from Army service for having an engagement band tattooed on her ring finger.
 “We have educated recruiters now that in instances like that, even though technically disqualifying, there is a process to request exceptions.
 And we are granting those,” he said.
 Batschelet was in town to attend a two-day leadership conference at Fort Leavenworth.
 His comments on tattoos came a day after Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel announced a relaxing of rules across the military against dreadlocks, cornrows and other hairstyles favored by many women serving.
 Some fashion rules, including limits on hairstyles, are necessary to ensure safety for troops who need their helmets and gas masks to fit properly, Batschelet said.
 The major general added that the Army will remain vigilant in disqualifying people whose tattoos express hate or are overly sexual in nature.
 Recruits also aren’t likely to get in wearing grandiose “sleeve” tattoos running the length of the arm, he said.
 “From an appearance perspective, it is less than professional if you see a soldier standing in uniform and they have a lightning bolt that shoots up the back of their head and around their ear.” Roger that.
 To reach Rick Montgomery, call 816-234-4410 or send email to rmontgomery@kcstar.com.
 More than a dozen operations have opened recently.
 More plan to open this month.
 KEEP READING  	      Read Local.Support Local.
 Your continued support makes local journalism like this possible.
 GIVE TODAY       All-access digital subscription #ReadLocal   Connect to local news for just $4.99 a month for 12 months.
 VIEW OFFER               Business           James B. Nutter &amp; Co., well regarded Kansas City home lender, sued by Feds for fraud           November 09, 2020 5:00 AM                   Personal Finance           This holiday season, put differences aside and remember what’s important           November 09, 2020 5:00 AM                   Education           Across KC, health officials warn schools against winter sports.
 Will anyone listen?
 November 09, 2020 5:00 AM                   Government &amp; Politics           Young and green, but energetic and effective.
 Who is Kansas City’s new city manager?
 November 09, 2020 5:00 AM               Video media Created with Sketch.
 Local           ‘We persevered’: Kansas City Democrats celebrate White House win, Harris’ rise to VP                   Government &amp; Politics           Johnson County shifted blue under Trump.
 Is the color durable or will it wash out?
 Take Us With You Real-time updates and all local stories you want right in the palm of your hand.
