Governor Cooper’s Executive Order No.
 121 takes effect on Monday, March 30 at 5:00 PM and reduces the size of gatherings to 10 people.
 The Order provides for essential businesses to continue to operate while prioritizing social distancing measures.
 The Order has the force of law and will be enforced in all 100 counties statewide.
 “To continue our aggressive battle against COVID-19, I have signed a Stay at Home Order for the entire state of North Carolina.
 Though it is difficult we must do this to slow the disease spread,” said Governor Cooper.
 “We need our medical system to be able to care for the friends and family we know will become seriously ill from the virus.” The Governor noted today that three North Carolinians have died due to COVID-19 and the state has 763 confirmed cases of the virus in 60 counties.
 He called on all North Carolinians to protect themselves by staying home and following social distancing guidelines.
 North Carolina is now considered to have widespread transmission of the virus, which means people who have tested positive cannot trace where they were exposed to the virus.
 The Order directs people to stay at home except to visit essential businesses, to exercise outdoors or to help a family member.
 Specifically, the order bans gatherings of more than 10 people and directs everyone to physically stay at least six feet apart from others.
 “I know this order may lead to even more hardship and heartache.
 Although we are physically apart, we must take this step together in spirit,” Governor Cooper said.
 Read the full Order.
 Unless noted in the order, previous closures and orders stand as written as do local government orders in cities and counties.
 Read FAQs about the order.
 If you do not think your business is included in the essential services list, and you think it should be, you may apply online at the NC Department of Revenue to be designated essential.
 Until your exemption is reviewed, you may operate as long as your business can accommodate social distancing in your workplace.
 For more information about health recommendations and who is designated at high risk for becoming seriously ill, please visit the CDC’s website at www.cdc.gov/coronavirus and NCDHHS’ website at www.ncdhhs.gov/coronavirus.
 This press release is related to:COVID-19Public Health                Share this page:     Facebook      Twitter            Back to top              Get Email Alerts Stay up to date with us.
 Get email alerts on latest news and upcoming events.
