Economy  Cover Stories Economic Activity Entrepreneurship Government  Hot Topics  Coronavirus Pension Reform The PawSox Weekly Hot Topic   Natural Resources  Nonprofit  Philanthropy Calendar   Real Estate    Industries  Business Services  Capital Goods   Manufacturing  Stuff     Financial Services Health Services Hospitality &amp; Tourism Technology    People  Education PBN Award Winners Personnel Workplace    Commentary  Advice Editorials Executive Poll In Their Own Words Letters to the Editor One Last Thing Op-Ed This Week’s Poll    Events  PBN Annual Events Philanthropy Calendar Community Event Calendar Submit an Event PBN Event Photos / Videos / Special Sections    Lists  This Weeks Lists Book Of Lists All Lists    PBN Connect  About PBN Connect Branded Content People on the Move Press Releases PBN Storefront    SUBSCRIBE  Print + Digital All Access + Data Newsletters            Sign in        Welcome!Log into your account   your username   your password    Forgot your password?
 Create an account  Privacy Policy       Sign up       Welcome!Register for an account    your email   your username   A password will be e-mailed to you.
 Privacy Policy       Password recovery   Recover your password   your email                Search                     71.8 F   Providence    
 
     Monday, November 9, 2020
       Coronavirus Coverage Digital Edition Log In 0 items$0.00         Sign in Welcome!
 Log into your account   your username   your password   Forgot your password?
 Get help Create an account Privacy Policy   Create an account Welcome!
 Register for an account   your email   your username   A password will be e-mailed to you.
 Privacy Policy   Password recovery Recover your password   your email   A password will be e-mailed to you.
 For a larger version of this image, CLICK HERE.
 /"/&gt;RHODE ISLAND HAS the highest percentage of uninsured adults in New England, according to data released by the CDC.
 For a larger version of this image, CLICK HERE.
 /    ATLANTA – Rhode Island has the highest percentage of uninsured adults in New England, according to the 2009 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System released by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 The agency released a map of uninsured adults in its Vital Signs’ Access to Health Care report this week, noting that new 2010…   Want More?
 Subscribe or register with Providence Business News to keep reading.
 REGISTERfor 2 more stories Subscribe now for $1 for 4 weeks Already a Subscriber?
 Login now   Want to share this story?
 Click Here to purchase a link that allows anyone to read it on any device whether or not they are a subscriber.
 Who would that be?
 Healthy adults who do NOT have any chronic illnesses (mostly because they eat right and stay fit – I’m not talking genetic factors here) and who choose not to buy insurance other than catastrophic care — that is, with a deductible of $5K, $10K, or whatever one wants.
 When monthly premiums cost $350 – $500 for an individual, it’s pretty easy to save that money instead — and make one’s OWN decisions about the health care one wants or needs – rather than leaving it to someone in an insurance company who does NOT have a medical degree.
 Let’s be real.
 There was no health insurance when many of us were kids, and health care was in many ways better THEN.
 The first example that comes to mind?
 There was no issue with infection-resistant antibiotics — because people didn’t run to the doctor every time they or their kids got sick — and demand an instant cure.
 In addition, the US does not practice evidence-based medicine.
 In the past year, the NY Times has had several articles on this issue.
 Here’s one: doctors in Europe stopped prescribing/installing certain knee and hip replacement appliances after just a few months on the market, after their patients experienced ongoing pain and infection that required new surgery and removal/replacement.
 They have a system that tracks the use and efficacy of such appliances.
 Meanwhile, the US has continued to use them – if not any longer (given the article), then for years after European doctors stopped.
 Another example: people who were candidates for knee surgery were offered intensive physical therapy for an extended period (far more than what would generally be paid for by health insurers) in place of knee replacement.
 Guess what?
 The ones who had PT versus knee replacement surgery did BETTER overall in terms of experiencing/managing pain, flexibility, knee strength/use, etc.
 So why isn’t PT recommended by doctors and paid for by our insurance industry – versus expensive, painful, and not always effective surgery?
 I’d guess it’s because we also have a system that is driven by profit.
 National studies have found that as much as 30% of our health care dollars go to pay “administrative overhead”.
 That’s the salaries of the health insurance industry, and of high-priced hospital CEOs — and $$ that is redirected from YOUR health care and your doctor’s wallet for providing it to you.
 And Democrats wonder how Obamacare helped bring them down?
 Single payer was the only rational option.
 Even then, the costs will continue to drain the middle class.
 Can anyone explain to me how I should pay high health insurance costs for US citizens who now are reported to eat 1 out of every 7 meals at McDonalds?
 Did anyone see “Supersize Me?” Hello?
 It’s NOT going to happen!
 Subscribe     By submitting your information you are agreeing to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use               Upcoming PBN Events      				Wed			 18    2020 Business Excellence Awards   November 18 @ 4:00 pm - 5:00 pm  Join us and celebrate 'The Best of The Best'!
 Dec			 10    2020 Diversity &amp; Inclusion Summit and Awards Program   December 10 @ 9:00 am - 10:30 am  Winners announced!
 All Rights Reserved.
 Subscribe today to enjoy unlimited access to premium content for only $1 for 4 weeks.
 Subscribe with Providence Business News to keep reading.
 Fortunately, if you register now you can keep reading with limited access or for unlimited access subscribe for $1 for 4 weeks.
 We’re glad you are enjoying PBN.
 It is not written by and does not reflect the views of Providence Business News.
