You can view today&apos;s paper or previous issues.
 Want full access?
 Jim Bohl cross-examined more than a dozen people who opposed his proposal to immediately stop fluoridating Milwaukee's drinking water.
 "Do you have any evidence to refute the health-related concerns of ingesting a toxin?"
 Bohl asked Warren LeMay, chief dental officer for the Wisconsin Department of Health Services.
 LeMay testified during the seven-hour Steering and Rules Committee meeting that fluoride should be kept in drinking water to help reduce tooth decay.
 When LeMay disagreed with Bohl's characterization of fluoride in water as a toxin, Bohl asked if LeMay disputed that the Environmental Protection Agency classified fluoride as a Class 1 toxin.
 "Fluoride distributed in the water system is not a toxin," LeMay responded.
 "Would I drink it straight?
 I would not .
 .
 .
 .
 Low-dose fluoride is beneficial.
 At a high dose, it is toxic."
 In the end, the committee voted 5-2 to hold Bohl's proposal for further consideration, with Bohl and Ald.
 Anthony Zielinski voting against the hold.
 Bohl said he may file a new proposal to reduce the city's level of water fluoridation, as the federal government is expected to recommend a reduction because fluoride is abundant in other sources, including toothpaste, mouthwash, food and beverages.
 A reduction would cut in half the city's $540,000 annual cost of fluoridating water, according to Water Works Director Carrie Lewis.
 Bohl has proposed diverting fluoridation money to create an oral health program for medically underserved children.
 Lewis said she would be comfortable reducing the city's water fluoridation if directed, though the state Department of Natural Resources has the final say on fluoridation levels.
 Racine already has cut its level in anticipation of the new recommendation, Lewis said.
 What constitutes good science is at the heart of the city's water fluoridation debate.
 Both sides Thursday agreed that science evolves, and practices should evolve with it.
 But they remained far apart on the science of fluoride's safety and effectiveness in drinking water.
 "You assume we're going to accept the established wisdom," Ald.
 Robert Bauman told pro-fluoride advocates, indicating he could support ending fluoridation.
 Bohl and others called into question whether federal agencies should have the final word on what is safe, and whether fluoride should be "forced" on the public without informed consent.
 The FDA regulates fluoridated consumer products, including toothpaste, but does not regulate fluoride being added to drinking water.
 That's the job of the Environmental Protection Agency.
 Milwaukee has fluoridated its water since 1953.
 Bohl earlier this week said he doesn't drink city water because he questions its safety.
 He said he began exploring the issue at the urging of his wife, a registered nurse, and that he felt compelled to call for an end to fluoridation because the more he researched it, "the more alarmed I became."
 Among Bohl's supporters was chemist Paul Connett, executive director of the Fluoride Action Network and co-author of the book, "The Case Against Fluoride: How Hazardous Waste Ended Up in Our Drinking Water and the Bad Science and Powerful Politics that Keep It There."
 "This is a very bad medical practice that never should have been started," Connett said during a Thursday morning news conference.
 About Karen Herzog Karen Herzog covers higher education.
 She also has covered public health and was part of a national award-winning team that took on Milwaukee's infant mortality crisis.
 But what about next year?
