Recall elections awash in outside spending By Tom Tolan of the Journal Sentinel Published on: 7/29/2011  With 10 days still to go before the hard-fought election between Alberta Darling and Sandy Pasch, well over $2 million has already been spent on TV advertising in the Milwaukee area, according to records kept at four TV stations, and overall campaign spending in the race is expected to easily set a record.The bulk of that massive amount of TV money is being spent by third-party groups whose ads have been flooding the small screen in recent weeks.
 But spending by the two candidates' campaign committees is also substantial, with Pasch, a Democratic state representative from Whitefish Bay, so far well outspending Darling, a Republican senator from River Hills who was targeted for recall.The Journal Sentinel's spending figures include ads bought at the Milwaukee market's four network affiliates, which are required to keep records of campaign advertising buys and make them available to the public.Mike McCabe, executive director of the Wisconsin Democracy Campaign, a nonprofit group that tracks political campaigns, said TV ads are only part of the overall campaign picture, with other costs including direct mail, radio ads and staff expenses.
 He expects the total spending in the 8th Senate District to easily top $4 million, well over the $3 million record set in 2000 in a tough race in the 10th District of Sen. Sheila Harsdorf (R-River Falls).In all, eight incumbent state senators face recall elections - six Republicans on Aug. 9 and two Democrats on Aug. 16.
 One Democrat has already survived recall.The recalls were launched during the turmoil in Madison over Gov.
 Scott Walker's proposal, ultimately successful, to sharply curtail collective bargaining by most public employees.Vast amounts of money are being spent on the races, which have become a national battleground for Republicans and Democrats maneuvering for the upper hand in the run-up to the 2012 elections.Estimates of total spending in all the races have reached $25 million, in a release Friday from Common Cause, and even $30 million, in an Associated Press story Friday.
 McCabe said Friday that he figures the spending in the Darling-Pasch race will be the most in the state, both because of the high cost of television advertising in the Milwaukee market and the huge campaign funds of both candidates.In a report covering just through June 30, Darling reported nearly $1 million raised, more than any other candidate in the state.
 Pasch had raised more than $400,000, the most of any Democrat.
 Those numbers are likely to soar on Monday, the next deadline for filing campaign finance statements to the state Government Accountability Board.Both McCabe and Jay Heck, executive director of Common Cause in Wisconsin, expect the race between Harsdorf and Democrat Shelly Moore to also break the old $3 million record, and McCabe said he thought the western Wisconsin race between Sen. Dan Kapanke (R-La Crosse) and Rep. Jennifer Shilling (D-La Crosse) could do so as well.
 Common Cause is a self-described "citizens lobby" concerned with campaign ethics, lobbying and open-government issues.Biggest spendersIn the Milwaukee market, the biggest spender is We Are Wisconsin, a coalition of union groups with a huge amount of national union money to spend on the recall races.
 Journal Sentinel calculations put the group's spending at $1,028,935 - a figure the group's spokesman, Kelly Steele, confirmed as "a damn good estimate.
 "Not all that money was spent on the Darling-Pasch race.
 We Are Wisconsin has been running ads attacking Jonathan Steitz, the Republican lawyer challenging Sen. Robert Wirch (D-Pleasant Prairie), and those account for $100,000 to $200,000 of the group's Milwaukee market spending.The Journal Sentinel's TV ad spending figures don't include spending on cable television, smaller Milwaukee stations or radio.
 Records were not equally well-organized at every station, so there may be minor discrepancies in some of the figures.Besides We Are Wisconsin, other major players in the latest round of TV advertising include Club for Growth Wisconsin, which booked about $800,000 in spending in the 8th District, and American Federation for Children, which booked about $235,000.Club for Growth Wisconsin is a conservative group with a key adviser, R.J. Johnson, who also advised Walker's campaign for governor last year.
 The American Federation for Children is a group that backs school choice and includes on its roster Scott Jensen, the Republican former Assembly speaker.
 Between them, the two groups outspent the union group.As for the candidates themselves, Pasch booked nearly $360,000 in advertising, though David Kreisman, Pasch's campaign manager, thought that number sounded a little low.
 Pasch has been advertising on TV since the end of May, Kreisman said.Darling's campaign had only about $93,000 of TV ads booked, but Andrew Davis, her campaign manager, said that figure will "more than double when it's all said and done.
 "Other outside groups listed as spending money on the race include Wisconsin Manufacturers &amp; Commerce, a state business group that generally supports Republicans; the liberal Greater Wisconsin Political Fund; and the League of Conservation Voters, an environmental advocacy group.
 All these other groups booked less than $100,000 in ads each, though WMC may be slightly over that figure - records of its spending couldn't be found at one of the stations.Other groups may also join the fray, including the Republican National Committee, which announced it was "all-in" for the Wisconsin recalls.That brought a bitter response from state Senate President Mike Ellis (R-Neenah), who said he was concerned any help from the RNC would come too late because of weeks of heavy spending by unions and others backing Democrats.
 "Maybe the cavalry should have gotten here before they stormed the fort, plundered the arsenal, poisoned the well and put us in the stockade," Ellis said.He said the money pouring into races is helping - or hurting - both sides and has left the candidates as bystanders in their own campaigns.
 "For the first time in the history of Wisconsin politics - and you can print this - candidates are now almost irrelevant to campaigns," he said.
 "They have hijacked these elections - both sides.
 And the candidates have nothing to do with it.
 "Patrick Marley of the Journal Sentinel staff, reporting from Madison, contributed to this report.
