SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexNew YorkToday’s PaperNew York|REPUTED MOB LEADER AMONG 15 INDICTED ON RACKETEERING COUNTShttps://nyti.ms/29vJZx7AdvertisementContinue reading the main storySupported byContinue reading the main storyREPUTED MOB LEADER AMONG 15 INDICTED ON RACKETEERING COUNTSBy Arnold H. Lubasch March 22, 1986Credit...The New York Times ArchivesSee the article in its original context from March 22, 1986, Section 1, Page 1Buy ReprintsView on timesmachineTimesMachine is an exclusive benefit for home delivery and digital subscribers.About the ArchiveThis is a digitized version of an article from The Times’s print archive, before the start of online publication in 1996.
 To preserve these articles as they originally appeared, The Times does not alter, edit or update them.Occasionally the digitization process introduces transcription errors or other problems; we are continuing to work to improve these archived versions.A reputed Mafia boss and 14 men described as associates were named yesterday in a Federal indictment charging extensive labor racketeering, construction bid-rigging, extortion, gambling and murder conspiracies.The principal defendant, Anthony Salerno, was described in the indictment as the boss of ''the Genovese organized crime family of La Cosa Nostra.''
 The highly detailed, 88-page indictment was unsealed after Mr. Salerno and several others were arrested on the charges.The other defendants were identified as some of Mr. Salerno's top Genovese associates, three members of other crime families and four New York business executives, including Edward J. Halloran, former owner of the Halloran House hotel, at 525 Lexington Avenue near 49th Street.Role in Teamsters VoteRudolph W. Giuliani, the United States Attorney in Manhattan, announced the charges in a news conference at his office.
 He said the bid-rigging charged in the indictment had added many millions of dollars to the cost of major construction projects in Manhattan.According to the 29-count indictment, the Genovese group infiltrated concrete companies to control the construction of high-rise buildings in Manhattan, including Trump Plaza.The indictment also charged that the Genovese group and other Mafia families had helped elect Roy L. Williams in 1981 as president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.The extortion charges said the Genovese group had demanded and received kickbacks to permit a food company, Marathon Enterprises of East Rutherford, N.J., to distribute bread, meat and hot dogs to supermarkets, sports arenas and street vendors.
 Payments were purportedly made to Mr. Salerno's wife, Margaret, as sham brokerage fees.In the gambling accusations, the indictment said the Genovese group conducted a numbers game, or illegal lottery, throughout the metropolitan area and nationwide sports betting that involved millions of dollars.
 Efforts to murder two men who ''posed a threat'' to the group's operations were also cited in the indictment.The head of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York, John L. Hogan, said the indictment was part of a nationwide drive that would continue until ''we bring organized crime to their knees.''Mr.
 Salerno is one of the main defendants in a pending trial involving charges that he and several others operated a ruling ''commission'' of Mafia leaders.
 That trial is now scheduled for Sept. 8 in Federal District Court in Manhattan.Defense lawyers denied the charges in yesterday's indictment.
 Frederick P. Hafetz, the lawyer for Mr. Halloran, said he would ''vigorously contest'' the charges, adding that his client was ''confident of being vindicated.''Mr.
 Salerno, who is 74 years old and lives in Rhinebeck, N.Y., pleaded not guilty and was held without bail after his arraignment in Federal District Court in Manhattan.
 Several others also pleaded not guilty.Mr.
 Halloran, 45, of Pelham, N.Y., was identified as the operator of several companies, including the Transit-Mix Concrete Corporation.
 He pleaded not guilty and was released on $500,000 bail.In March 1982, in a series of articles about organized-crime influence on the city's construction industry, The New York Times reported that Mr. Halloran had secretly acquired control of Manhattan's only three concrete supply companies.The defendants included three men identified as captains in the Genevose group.
 They were Vincent Cafaro, 53, of the Bronx; Vincent DiNapoli, 49, of Pelham Manor, N.Y., and Giuseppe Sabato, 78, of Fort Lee, N.J.Three others identified as Genovese members were Louis DiNapoli, 47, of Scarsdale; Carmine Della Cava, 32, of the Bronx, and Thomas Cafaro, 28, of Englewood Cliffs, N.J.Besides Mr. Halloran, the businessmen were identified as Nicholas Auletta, 53, of Pelham Manor, president of S &amp; A Concrete Company; Alvin O. Chattin, 57, of Dix Hills, L.I., vice president of Transit-Mix, and Richard Costa, 49, of Scarsdale, an officer of Marathon Enterprises.The four other defendants were identified as John Tronolone, 75, of Miami Beach, called a Cleveland crime-family member; Milton Rockman, 73, of Cleveland, an associate; Alphonse Mosca, 51, of Garden City, L.I., called a Gambino ''family'' member, and Neil Migliore, 52, of South Oyster Bay Cove, L.I., called a Lucchese crime group member.
 The four were also described as ''associates of the Genovese family.
 ''All the defendants, except Mr. Rockman, were charged with racketeering and other counts.
 Mr. Rockman was charged solely with fraud.
 The racketeering charge carries a maximum sentence of 20 years, with the other counts carrying sentences of 5 to 20 years.Buildings where bid-rigging was said to have occurred, besides Trump Plaza, at 167 East 61st Street, included several other luxury apartment buildings and residences for Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, all in Manhattan.
 ''The Genovese Family and its co-racketeers'' sought to defraud real-estate developers and construction managers, the indictment said, ''by rigging the bids on subcontracts for the concrete superstructure work on high-rise buildings.
 ''The indictment said the group allocated the concrete work to selected companies, rigged the bids so that a selected company would win a specific contract and threatened to stop the concrete supply.
 ''Regarding the election of Mr. Williams, the indictment said his selection as president of the teamsters' international had been approved by Mr. Salerno and Mafia leaders in Cleveland and Chicago in a scheme to ''control and influence'' his decisions as head of the powerful union.Mr.
 Williams was convicted in 1982 of trying to bribe Howard W. Cannon, who was a Senator from Nevada.Some of the bid-rigging practices have also been described in the continuing Manhattan trial of reputed leaders of the Colombo crime family.
 The principal defendant, Anthony Salerno, was described in the indictment as the boss of ''the Genovese organized crime family of La Cosa Nostra.''
 The highly detailed, 88-page indictment was unsealed after Mr. Salerno and several others were arrested on the charges.
 The other defendants were identified as some of Mr. Salerno's top Genovese associates, three members of other crime families and four New York business executives, including Edward J. Halloran, former owner of the Halloran House hotel, at 525 Lexington Avenue near 49th Street.
 The highly detailed, 88-page indictment was unsealed after Mr. Salerno and several others were arrested on the charges.
 He said the bid-rigging charged in the indictment had added many millions of dollars to the cost of major construction projects in Manhattan.
 Payments were purportedly made to Mr. Salerno's wife, Margaret, as sham brokerage fees.
 Efforts to murder two men who ''posed a threat'' to the group's operations were also cited in the indictment.
 Salerno is one of the main defendants in a pending trial involving charges that he and several others operated a ruling ''commission'' of Mafia leaders.
 That trial is now scheduled for Sept. 8 in Federal District Court in Manhattan.
 Salerno, who is 74 years old and lives in Rhinebeck, N.Y., pleaded not guilty and was held without bail after his arraignment in Federal District Court in Manhattan.
 Halloran, 45, of Pelham, N.Y., was identified as the operator of several companies, including the Transit-Mix Concrete Corporation.
 He pleaded not guilty and was released on $500,000 bail.
 The four were also described as ''associates of the Genovese family.
 Mr. Rockman was charged solely with fraud.
 The racketeering charge carries a maximum sentence of 20 years, with the other counts carrying sentences of 5 to 20 years.
 Williams was convicted in 1982 of trying to bribe Howard W. Cannon, who was a Senator from Nevada.
 Some of the accusations involving the teamsters' union came to light in earlier cases, including a recent organized-crime trial in Kansas City, Mo.
