August 2011
For example, disease in the lungs can be associated with a cough, and gastrointestinal disease can cause abdominal 
pain and diarrhea. If untreated, a person can die of the disease. 
How is 
M. bovis 
treated in people?
M. bovis
 is treated similarly to 
M. tuberculosis
. In fact, healthcare providers might not know that a person has 
M. bovis
 instead of 
M. tuberculosis
. M. bovis
 is usually resistant to one of the antibiotics, pyrazinamide, typically used to treat 
TB disease.  However, resistance to just pyrazinamide does not usually cause problems with treatment, because 
TB disease is treated with a combination of several antibiotics. Latent infection without disease is not treated with 
pyrazinamide.
Are all cattle infected with
 M. bovis?
No. The Cooperative State-Federal Tuberculosis Eradication Program, including the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
state animal health agencies, and U.S. livestock producers, has nearly eliminated 
M. bovis 
infection from cattle in 
the United States. Inspectors test more than one million animals a year for TB and have taken steps to eradicate the 
disease.  However,
 M. bovis 
can be found in wild animals such as bison, elk, and deer; uninfected cattle that come into 
contact with these wild animals can become infected.
Cattle outside the United States, particularly in developing countries, might not have the same level of inspection for 
M. bovis
 infection.  Be cautious when consuming imported dairy products and ensure that the products have been 
properly pasteurized.
How can
 M. bovis
 infection be prevented?
The most commonly reported source of 
M. bovis
 infection in people is the consumption 
of unpasteurized dairy products.  Unpasteurized dairy products, such as milk or 
cheese, should not be consumed:  although 
M. bovis
 infection in U.S. domestic cattle is 
substantially reduced compared to the past, unpasteurized dairy product consumption 
still carries health risks. To make sure that dairy products are pasteurized, check the label 
and ingredients list and make sure that the word ﬁpasteurizedﬂ is listed.  Use caution 
when purchasing homemade dairy products such as cheeses or products that are sold 
without complete labeling of the ingredients.
People at risk for contact with body fluids or tissue from a wild bison or cervid (e.g., deer or elk) into a wound, such as 
hunters, should promptly seek medical attention and inform their healthcare providers about the exposure to a wild 
animal that might carry 
M. bovis.
People who spend extended periods in close contact with cattle or other animals that might carry
 M. bovis, 
such as dairy workers, should promptly seek medical attention for any illness with symptoms of TB disease as described above 
and ensure that their health care providers are aware that they work in close contact with animals.
Additional Information 
 U.S. Department of Agriculture Bovine Tuberculosis fact sheet                                                                                                      
 http://www.aphis.usda.gov/publications/animal_health/content/printable_version/faq_bovine_tb_.pdf
 State TB Control O˜ces 
http://www.cdc.gov/tb/links/tbo˜ces.htm
 Signs and Symptoms of TB Disease 
http://www.cdc.gov/tb/topic/basics/signsandsymptoms.htm 
Division of Tuberculosis Elimination: 
http://www.cdc.gov/tb
