Get the latest public health information from CDC: https://www.coronavirus.gov
  Get the latest research information from NIH: https://www.nih.gov/coronavirus    Home » Publications » Brochures and Fact Sheets » Underage Drinking    Print version Underage Drinking  Underage drinking is a serious public health problem in the United States.
 Alcohol is the most widely used substance of abuse among America’s youth, and drinking by young people poses enormous health and safety risks.
 The consequences of underage drinking can affect everyone—regardless of age or drinking status.
 We all feel the effects of the aggressive behavior, property damage, injuries, violence, and deaths that can result from underage drinking.
 This is not simply a problem for some families—it is a nationwide concern.
 Underage Drinking Statistics  How much is a drink?
 Although the “standard” drink amounts are helpful for following health guidelines, they may not reflect customary serving sizes.
 A large cup of beer, an overpoured glass of wine, or a single mixed drink could contain much more alcohol than a standard drink.
 Many young people drink alcohol   By age 15, about 33 percent of teens have had 
   at least 1 drink.1  By age 18, about 60 percent of teens have had at least 1 drink.1 In 2015, 7.7 million young people ages 12–20 reported that they drank alcohol beyond “just a few sips” in the past month.2  
  Youth ages 12 to 20 often binge drink 
  People ages 12 through 20 drink 11 percent of all alcohol consumed in the United States.3 Although youth drink less often than adults do, when they do drink, they drink more.
 That is because young people consume more than 90 percent of their alcohol by binge drinking.
 Binge drinking is consuming many drinks on an occasion (see box).
 Drinking alcohol and binge drinking become more prevalent as young people get older.
 5.1 million young people reported binge drinking (for males 5 or more drinks and for females 4 or more drinks on the same occasion within a few hours) at least once in the past month.2 1.3 million young people reported binge drinking on 5 or more days over the past month.2   More adolescents use alcohol than cigarettes or marijuana   SOURCE: Johnston, L.D.
 ; Miech, R.A.; O’Malley, P.M.; et al.
 Monitoring the Future National Survey: Trends in 30-Day Prevalence of Use of Various Drugs in Grades 8, 10, and 12, 2015.
 Ann Arbor, MI: Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan, 2016.
 Available at: http://monitoringthefuture.org/data/16data/16drtbl3.pdf.
 Accessed 1/10/17.
 Prevalence of drinking by boys and girls is similar, although among older adolescents, boys binge more than girls.
