He does not expect that his advanced ideas will be readily taken up... His duty is to lay the foundation for those who are to come, and point the way.
 Nikola Tesla (10 July 1856 – 7 January 1943) was a Serbian-American physicist, inventor, and electrical engineer.
 An ethnic Serbian born in the Military Frontier (present-day Croatia), he was a subject of the Austrian Empire who later became an American citizen.
 Contents  1 Quotes  1.1 The Problem of Increasing Human Energy (1900) 1.2 A Means for Furthering Peace (1905) 1.3 Man's Greatest Achievement (1908; 1930) 1.4 My Inventions (1919) 1.5 Mr. Tesla Explains Why He Will Never Marry (1924) 1.6 A Machine to End War (1937)   2 Attributed to Tesla 3 Disputed 4 Misattributed 5 Quotes about Tesla 6 External links   Quotes[edit]  A point of great importance would be first to know: what is the capacity of the earth?
 And what charge does it contain if electrified?
 Throughout space there is energy.
 … it is a mere question of time when men will succeed in attaching their machinery to the very wheelwork of nature.
 This planet, with all its appalling immensity, is to electric currents virtually no more than a small metal ball.
 All my money has been invested into experiments with which I have made new discoveries enabling mankind to have a little easier life.
 NikolaThe mind is sharper and keener in seclusion and uninterrupted solitude.
 No big laboratory is needed in which to think.
 Originality thrives in seclusion free of outside influences beating upon us to cripple the creative mind.
 Be alone, that is the secret of invention; be alone, that is when ideas are born.
 Quoted in Nikola Tesla's Life &amp; Work by István G. Kocsis, (2015).
 A point of great importance would be first to know: what is the capacity of the earth?
 And what charge does it contain if electrified?
 Though we have no positive evidence of a charged body existing in space without other oppositely electrified bodies being near, there is a fair probability that the earth is such a body, for by whatever process it was separated from other bodies — and this is the accepted view of its origin — it must have retained a charge, as occurs in all processes of mechanical separation.
 "Experiments With Alternating Currents of Very High Frequency, and Their Application to Methods of Artificial Illumination" (20 May 1891)  Alternate currents, especially of high frequencies, pass with astonishing freedom through even slightly rarefied gases... Alternate currents, especially of high frequencies, pass with astonishing freedom through even slightly rarefied gases.
 The upper strata of the air are rarefied.
 To reach a number of miles out into space requires the overcoming of difficulties of a merely mechanical nature.
 "Experiments With Alternate Currents Of High Potential And High Frequency" an address to the Institution of Electrical Engineers, London (February 1892) Ere many generations pass, our machinery will be driven by a power obtainable at any point of the universe.
 This idea is not novel.
 Men have been led to it long ago by instinct or reason; it has been expressed in many ways, and in many places, in the history of old and new.
 We find it in the delightful myth of Antaeus, who derives power from the earth; we find it among the subtle speculations of one of your splendid mathematicians and in many hints and statements of thinkers of the present time.
 Throughout space there is energy.
 Is this energy static or kinetic!
 If static our hopes are in vain; if kinetic — and this we know it is, for certain — then it is a mere question of time when men will succeed in attaching their machinery to the very wheelwork of nature.
 "Experiments With Alternate Currents Of High Potential And High Frequency" (February 1892) Ere long intelligence—transmitted without wires—will throb through the earth like a pulse through a living organism.
 The wonder is that, with the present state of knowledge and the experiences gained, no attempt is being made to disturb the electrostatic or magnetic condition of the earth, and transmit, if nothing else, intelligence.
 Electrical Engineer, (24 Jun 1892), 11‎, 609.
 There is something within me that might be illusion as it is often case with young delighted people, but if I would be fortunate to achieve some of my ideals, it would be on the behalf of the whole of humanity.
 If those hopes would become fulfilled, the most exciting thought would be that it is a deed of a Serb.
 Address at the Belgrade train station (1 June 1892) Nature may reach the same result in many ways.
 Like a wave in the physical world, in the infinite ocean of the medium which pervades all, so in the world of organisms, in life, an impulse started proceeds onward, at times, may be, with the speed of light, at times, again, so slowly that for ages and ages it seems to stay, passing through processes of a complexity inconceivable to men, but in all its forms, in all its stages, its energy ever and ever integrally present.
 A single ray of light from a distant star falling upon the eye of a tyrant in bygone times may have altered the course of his life, may have changed the destiny of nations, may have transformed the surface of the globe, so intricate, so inconceivably complex are the processes in Nature.
 In no way can we get such an overwhelming idea of the grandeur of Nature than when we consider, that in accordance with the law of the conservation of energy, throughout the Infinite, the forces are in a perfect balance, and hence the energy of a single thought may determine the motion of a universe.
 "On Light And Other High Frequency Phenomena" A lecture delivered before the Franklin Institute, Philadelphia (24 February 1893), and before the National Electric Light Association, St. Louis (1 March 1893), published in The Electrical review (9 June 1893), p. Page 683; also in The Inventions, Researches And Writings of Nikola Tesla (1894) There is an influence which is getting strong and stronger day by day, which shows itself more and more in all departments of human activity, and influence most fruitful and beneficial—the influence of the artist.
 It was a happy day for the mass of humanity when the artist felt the desire of becoming a physician, an electrician, an engineer or mechanician or—whatnot—a mathematician or a financier; for it was he who wrought all these wonders and grandeur we are witnessing.
 It was he who abolished that small, pedantic, narrow-grooved school teaching which made of an aspiring student a galley-slave, and he who allowed freedom in the choice of subject of study according to one's pleasure and inclination, and so facilitated development.
 "Roentgen Rays or Streams", Electrical Review (12 Aug 1896).
 Reprinted in The Nikola Tesla Treasury (2007), 307.
 By Nikola Tesla Our virtues and our failings are inseparable, like force and matter.
 When they separate, man is no more.
 "The Problem of Increasing Human Energy", Century Illustrated Magazine (June 1900) In a crystal we have the clear evidence of the existence of a formative life-principle, and though we cannot understand the life of a crystal, it is none the less a living being.
 In 'The Problem of Increasing Human Energy: With Special Reference to the Harnessing of the Sun’s Energy', Century Illustrated Magazine (Jun 1900), 60, No.
 2, 180.
 When the great truth accidentally revealed and experimentally confirmed is fully recognized, that this planet, with all its appalling immensity, is to electric currents virtually no more than a small metal ball and that by this fact many possibilities, each baffling imagination and of incalculable consequence, are rendered absolutely sure of accomplishment; when the first plant is inaugurated and it is shown that a telegraphic message, almost as secret and non-interferable as a thought, can be transmitted to any terrestrial distance, the sound of the human voice, with all its intonations and inflections, faithfully and instantly reproduced at any other point of the globe, the energy of a waterfall made available for supplying light, heat or motive power, anywhere — on sea, or land, or high in the air — humanity will be like an ant heap stirred up with a stick: See the excitement coming!
 "The Transmission of Electric Energy Without Wires" in Electrical World and Engineer (5 March 1904) Smatram svojom dužnošću da kao rođeni sin svoje zemlje pomognem gradu Zagrebu u svakom pogledu savjetom i činom "As a son of this country [Croatia], I consider it my duty to help the City of Zagreb in every way, either through counsel or through action".
 City Counsel Zagreb, 24th May 1892; as quoted in Milčec, Zvonimir (1991) (in Croatian).
 Nečastivi na kotačima: Civilizacijske novosti iz starog Zagreba.
 Zagreb: Bookovac.
 pp.
 25.
 OCLC 439099360.
 Of all the frictional resistances, the one that most retards human movement is ignorance, what Buddha called 'the greatest evil in the world.'
 The friction which results from ignorance ... can be reduced only by the spread of knowledge and the unification of the heterogeneous elements of humanity.
 No effort could be better spent.
 "The Problem of Increasing Human Energy", The Century (Jun 1900), 211.
 Collected in The Century (1900), Vol.
 60, 211 As soon as it is completed, it will be possible for a business man in New York to dictate instructions, and have them instantly appear in type at his office in London or elsewhere.
 He will be able to call up, from his desk, and talk to any telephone subscriber on the globe, without any change whatever in the existing equipment.
 An inexpensive instrument, not bigger than a watch, will enable its bearer to hear anywhere, on sea or land, music or song, the speech of a political leader, the address of an eminent man of science, or the sermon of an eloquent clergyman, delivered in some other place, however distant.
 In the same manner any picture, character, drawing, or print can be transferred from one to another place.
 Millions of such instruments can be operated from but one plant of this kind.
 More important than all of this, however, will be the transmission of power, without wires, which will be shown on a scale large enough to carry conviction.
 On the Wardenclyffe Tower, in "The Future of the Wireless Art" in Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony (1908)  Let the future tell the truth and evaluate each one according to his work and accomplishments.
 The present is theirs; the future, for which I really worked, is mine.
 Money does not represent such a value as men have placed upon it.
 All my money has been invested into experiments with which I have made new discoveries enabling mankind to have a little easier life.
 As quoted in "A Visit to Nikola Tesla" by Dragislav L. Petković in Politika (April 1927); also in Tesla, Master of Lightning (1999) by Margaret Cheney, Robert Uth, and Jim Glenn, p. 82 Let the future tell the truth and evaluate each one according to his work and accomplishments.
 The present is theirs; the future, for which I really worked, is mine.
 On patent controversies regarding the invention of Radio and other things, as quoted in "A Visit to Nikola Tesla" by Dragislav L. Petković in Politika (April 1927); as quoted in Tesla, Master of Lightning (1999) by Margaret Cheney, Robert Uth, and Jim Glenn, p. 73 ISBN 0760710058  ; also in Tesla: Man Out of Time (2001) by Margaret Cheney, p. 230 ISBN 0743215362  The idea of atomic energy is illusionary but it has taken so powerful a hold on the minds, that although I have preached against it for twenty-five years, there are still some who believe it to be realizable.
 Quoted in 'Tesla, 75, Predicts New Power Source', New York Times (5 Jul 1931), Section 2, 1.
 To say that in the presence of large bodies space becomes curved is equivalent to stating that something can act upon nothing.
 I, for one, refuse to subscribe to such a view.
 I have harnessed the cosmic rays and caused them to operate a motive device.
 Brooklyn Eagle (10 July 1931) If Edison had a needle to find in a haystack, he would proceed at once with the diligence of the bee to examine straw after straw until he found the object of his search.
 … I was a sorry witness of such doings, knowing that a little theory and calculation would have saved him ninety per cent of his labor.
 New York Times (19 October 1931) Edison was by far the most successful and, probably, the last exponent of the purely empirical method of investigation.
 Everything he achieved was the result of persistent trials and experiments often performed at random but always attesting extraordinary vigor and resource.
 Starting from a few known elements, he would make their combinations and permutations, tabulate them and run through the whole list, completing test after test with incredible rapidity until he obtained a clue.
 His mind was dominated by one idea, to leave no stone unturned, to exhaust every possibility.
 I came from Paris in the Spring of 1884, and was brought in intimate contact with him [Thomas Edison].
 We experimented day and night, holidays not excepted.
 His existence was made up of alternate periods of work and sleep in the laboratory.
 He had no hobby, cared for no sport or amusement of any kind and lived in utter disregard of the most elementary rules of hygiene.
 There can be no doubt that, if he had not married later a woman of exceptional intelligence, who made it the one object of her life to preserve him, he would have died many years ago from consequences of sheer neglect.
 So great and uncontrollable was his passion for work.
 As quoted in "Tesla Says Edison Was an Empiricist", The New York Times (19 Oct 1931), 25.
 I hold that space cannot be curved, for the simple reason that it can have no properties.
 It might as well be said that God has properties.
 He has not, but only attributes and these are of our own making.
 Of properties we can only speak when dealing with matter filling the space.
 To say that in the presence of large bodies space becomes curved is equivalent to stating that something can act upon nothing.
 I, for one, refuse to subscribe to such a view.
 New York Herald Tribune (11 September 1932) The scientific man does not aim at an immediate result.
 He does not expect that his advanced ideas will be readily taken up.
 His work is like that of the planter — for the future.
 His duty is to lay the foundation for those who are to come, and point the way.
 He lives and labors and hopes.
 "Radio Power Will Revolutionize the World" in Modern Mechanics and Inventions (July 1934) When wireless is perfectly applied the whole earth will be converted into a huge brain, which in fact it is, all things being particles of a real and rhythmic whole.
 We shall be able to communicate with one another instantly, irrespective of distance.
 Not only this, but through television and telephony we shall see and hear one another as perfectly as though we were face to face, despite intervening distances of thousands of miles; and the instruments through which we shall be able to do this will be amazingly simple compared with our present telephone.
 A man will be able to carry one in his vest pocket.
 "When woman is boss", Colliers, January 30, 1926 But the female mind has demonstrated a capacity for all the mental acquirements and achievements of men, and as generations ensue that capacity will be expanded; the average woman will be as well educated as the average man, and then better educated, for the dormant faculties of her brain will be stimulated to an activity that will be all the more intense and powerful because of centuries of repose.
 Woman will ignore precedent and startle civilization with their progress.
 "When woman is boss", Colliers, January 30, 1926 I have satisfied myself that the [cosmic] rays are not generated by the formation of new matter in space, a process which would be like water running up a hill.
 Nor do they come to any appreciable amount from the stars.
 According to my investigations the sun emits a radiation of such penetrative power that it is virtually impossible to absorb it in lead or other substances.
 ...
 This ray, which I call the primary solar ray, gives rise to a secondary radiation by impact against the cosmic dust scattered through space.
 It is the secondary radiation which now is commonly called the cosmic ray, and comes, of course, equally from all directions in space.
 [The article continues: The phenomena of radioactivity are not the result of forces within the radioactive substances but are caused by this ray emitted by the sun.
 If radium could be screened effectively against this ray it would cease to be radioactive, he said.]
 Quoted in 'Tesla, 75, Predicts New Power Source', New York Times (5 Jul 1931), Section 2, 1.
 Today's scientists have substituted mathematics for experiments, and they wander off through equation after equation, and eventually build a structure which has no relation to reality.
 "Radio Power Will Revolutionize the World" in Modern Mechanics and Inventions (July 1934) The scientists from Franklin to Morse were clear thinkers and did not produce erroneous theories.
 The scientists of today think deeply instead of clearly.
 One must be sane to think clearly, but one can think deeply and be quite insane.
 "Radio Power Will Revolutionize the World" in Modern Mechanics and Inventions (July 1934) Much has been said about Yugoslavia and its people, but many Americans may be under a wrong impression for political enemies and agitators have spread the idea that its inhabitants belong to different nations animated by mutual hate and held together against their will, by a tyrannical power.
 The fact is that all Yugoslavs — Serbians, Slavonians, Bosnians, Herzegovinians, Dalmations, Montenagrins, Croatians and Slovenes — are of the same race, speak the same language and have common national ideals and traditions.
 At the termination of the World War, Alexander brought about a political union creating a powerful and resourceful State.
 This was hailed with joy by all the Slavs of the Balkans, but it took time before the people found themselves in the new conditions.
 I was born in Croatia.
 The Croatians and Slovenes were never in a position to fight for their independence.
 It was the Serbians who fought the battles for freedom and the price of liberty was paid in Serbian blood.
 All true Croatians and Slovenes remember that gratefully.
 They also know that the Serbians have an unequaled aptitude and experience in warfare and are best qualified to direct the forces of the country in a crisis.
 Ever since united Yugoslavia came into being through Alexander's efforts, political enemies have done all they could to disrupt it by sowing seeds of discord and disseminating malicious reports.
 … The death of the King has shaken the country to its very foundations, but the enemies who say that it means the disruption of Yugoslavia will hope in vain, for the noble blood of the great man has only served to cement its parts more firmly and strengthen the national structure.
 Alexander will live long in the memory of his people, a heroic figure of imposing stature, both the Washington and Lincoln of the Yugoslavs; like Washington an able and intrepid general who freed his country from oppression; like Lincoln a wise and patriotic leader who suffered martyrdom.
 Tribute to King Alexander, to the editor of The New York Times (19 October 1934), also at Heroes of Serbia Einstein's relativity work is a magnificent mathematical garb which fascinates, dazzles and makes people blind to the underlying errors.
 The theory is like a beggar clothed in purple whom ignorant people take for a king... its exponents are brilliant men but they are metaphysicists rather than scientists.
 New York Times (11 July 1935), p. 23, c.8 I am equally proud of my Serbian origin and Croatian homeland.
 In response telegram to the President of HSS (Croatian Peasant Party), Vladko Maček (June 1936) Marconi is a good fellow.
 Let him continue.
 He is using seventeen of my patents.
 On being informed that Marconi was transmitting wireless messages across the Atlantic Ocean, as quoted in "Who Invented Radio?"
 at PBS.org, and in Tesla : The Modern Sorcerer (1999) by Daniel Blair Stewart, p. 371 I do not think there is any thrill that can go through the human heart like that felt by the inventor as he sees some creation of the brain unfolding to success … Such emotions make a man forget food, sleep, friends, love, everything.
 Quoted in Marconi and Tesla: Pioneers of Radio Communication (2008) by Tim O'Shei, ISBN 159845076X , p. 5 These creatures were remarkably efficient, for once they were started they had no sense to stop and continued whirling for hours and hours.... All went well until a strange boy came to the place.
 He was the son of a retired officer in the Austrian Army.
 That urchin ate May-bugs alive and enjoyed them as tho they were the finest blue-point oysters.
 That disgusting site terminated my endeavors in this promising field and I have never since been able to touch a May-bug or any other insect for that matter.
 My Inventions by Nikola Tesla, ISBN 978-1614270843 , p. 45 The Problem of Increasing Human Energy (1900)[edit]  Though free to think and act, we are held together, like the stars in the firmament, with ties inseparable.
 These ties cannot be seen, but we can feel them.
 We are all one.
 The individual is ephemeral, races and nations come and pass away, but man remains.
 "The Problem of Increasing Human Energy with Special References to the Harnessing of the Sun's Energy" in Century Illustrated Magazine (June 1900) When we speak of man, we have a conception of humanity as a whole, and before applying scientific methods to the investigation of his movement we must accept this as a physical fact.
 But can anyone doubt to-day that all the millions of individuals and all the innumerable types and characters constitute an entity, a unit?
 Though free to think and act, we are held together, like the stars in the firmament, with ties inseparable.
 These ties cannot be seen, but we can feel them.
 I cut myself in the finger, and it pains me: this finger is a part of me.
 I see a friend hurt, and it hurts me, too: my friend and I are one.
 And now I see stricken down an enemy, a lump of matter which, of all the lumps of matter in the universe, I care least for, and it still grieves me.
 Does this not prove that each of us is only part of a whole?
 For ages this idea has been proclaimed in the consummately wise teachings of religion, probably not alone as a means of insuring peace and harmony among men, but as a deeply founded truth.
 The Buddhist expresses it in one way, the Christian in another, but both say the same: We are all one.
 Metaphysical proofs are, however, not the only ones which we are able to bring forth in support of this idea.
 Science, too, recognizes this connectedness of separate individuals, though not quite in the same sense as it admits that the suns, planets, and moons of a constellation are one body, and there can be no doubt that it will be experimentally confirmed in times to come, when our means and methods for investigating psychical and other states and phenomena shall have been brought to great perfection.
 Still more: this one human being lives on and on.
 The individual is ephemeral, races and nations come and pass away, but man remains.
 Therein lies the profound difference between the individual and the whole.
 For every person who perishes from the effects of a stimulant, at least a thousand die from the consequences of drinking impure water.
 This precious fluid, which daily infuses new life into us, is likewise the chief vehicle through which disease and death enter our bodies.
 The germs of destruction it conveys are enemies all the more terrible as they perform their fatal work unperceived.
 They seal our doom while we live and enjoy.
 The majority of people are so ignorant or careless in drinking water, and the consequences of this are so disastrous, that a philanthropist can scarcely use his efforts better than by endeavoring to enlighten those who are thus injuring themselves.
 By systematic purification and sterilization of the drinking water the human mass would be very considerably increased.
 It should be made a rigid rule which might be enforced by law to boil or to sterilize otherwise the drinking water in every household and public place.
 The mere filtering does not afford sufficient security against infection.
 All ice for internal uses should be artificially prepared from water thoroughly sterilized.
 The importance of eliminating germs of disease from the city water is generally recognized, but little is being done to improve the existing conditions, as no satisfactory method of sterilizing great quantities of water has yet been brought forward.
 By improved electrical appliances we are now enabled to produce ozone cheaply and in large amounts, and this ideal disinfectant seems to offer a happy solution of the important question.
 The production of artificial food as a means for causing an increase of the human mass naturally suggests itself, but a direct attempt of this kind to provide nourishment does not appear to me rational, at least not for the present.
 Whether we could thrive on such food is very doubtful.
 We are the result of ages of continuous adaptation, and we cannot radically change without unforeseen and, in all probability, disastrous consequences.
 So uncertain an experiment should not be tried.
 By far the best way, it seems to me, to meet the ravages of the evil, would be to find ways of increasing the productivity of the soil.
 With this object the preservation of forests is of an importance which cannot be overestimated, and in this connection, also, the utilization of water-power for purposes of electrical transmission, dispensing in many ways with the necessity of burning wood, and tending thereby to forest preservation, is to be strongly advocated.
 But there are limits in the improvement to be effected in this and similar ways.
 To increase materially the productivity of the soil, it must be more effectively fertilized by artificial means.
 The question of food-production resolves itself, then, into the question how best to fertilize the soil.
 What it is that made the soil is still a mystery.
 To explain its origin is probably equivalent to explaining the origin of life itself.
 The rocks, disintegrated by moisture and heat and wind and weather, were in themselves not capable of maintaining life.
 Some unexplained condition arose, and some new principle came into effect, and the first layer capable of sustaining low organisms, like mosses was formed.
 These, by their life and death, added more of the life sustaining quality to the soil, and higher organisms could then subsist, and so on and on, until at last highly developed plant and animal life could flourish.
 But though the theories are, even now, not in agreement as to how fertilization is effected, it is a fact, only too well ascertained, that the soil cannot indefinitely sustain life, and some way must be found to supply it with the substances which have been abstracted from it by the plants.
 The chief and most valuable among these substances are compounds of nitrogen, and the cheap production of these is, therefore, the key for the solution of the all-important food problem.
 Our atmosphere contains an inexhaustible amount of nitrogen, and could we but oxidize it and produce these compounds, an incalculable benefit for mankind would follow.
 Long ago this idea took a powerful hold on the imagination of scientific men, but an efficient means for accomplishing this result could not be devised.
 The problem was rendered extremely difficult by the extraordinary inertness of the nitrogen, which refuses to combine even with oxygen.
 But here electricity comes to our aid: the dormant affinities of the element are awakened by an electric current of the proper quality.
 As a lump of coal which has been in contact with oxygen for centuries without burning will combine with it when once ignited, so nitrogen, excited by electricity, will burn.
 I did not succeed, however, in producing electrical discharges exciting very effectively the atmospheric nitrogen until a comparatively recent date, although I showed, in May, 1891, in a scientific lecture, a novel form of discharge or electrical flame named "St. Elmo's hotfire," which, besides being capable of generating ozone in abundance, also possessed, as I pointed out on that occasion, distinctly the quality of exciting chemical affinities.
 This discharge or flame was then only three or four inches long, its chemical action was likewise very feeble, and consequently the process of oxidation of nitrogen was wasteful.
 How to intensify this action was the question.
 Evidently electric currents of a peculiar kind had to be produced in order to render the process of nitrogen combustion more efficient.
 There can be no doubt that, of all the frictional resistances, the one that most retards human movement is ignorance.
 Not without reason said that man of wisdom, Buddha: "Ignorance is the greatest evil in the world."
 The friction which results from ignorance, and which is greatly increased owing to the numerous languages and nationalities, can be reduced only by the spread of knowledge and the unification of the heterogeneous elements of humanity.
 No effort could be better spent.
 But however ignorance may have retarded the onward movement of man in times past, it is certain that, nowadays, negative forces have become of greater importance.
 Among these there is one of far greater moment than any other.
 It is called organized warfare.
 When we consider the millions of individuals, often the ablest in mind and body, the flower of humanity, who are compelled to a life of inactivity and unproductiveness, the immense sums of money daily required for the maintenance of armies and war apparatus, representing ever so much of human energy, all the effort uselessly spent in the production of arms and implements of destruction, the loss of life and the fostering of a barbarous spirit, we are appalled at the inestimable loss to mankind which the existence of these deplorable conditions must involve.
 What can we do to combat best this great evil?
 It has been argued that the perfection of guns of great destructive power will stop warfare.
 So I myself thought for a long time, but now I believe this to be a profound mistake.
 Such developments will greatly modify, but not arrest it.
 On the contrary, I think that every new arm that is invented, every new departure that is made in this direction, merely invites new talent and skill, engages new effort, offers new incentive, and so only gives a fresh impetus to further development.
 Think of the discovery of gun-powder.
 Can we conceive of any more radical departure than was effected by this innovation?
 Let us imagine ourselves living in that period: would we not have thought then that warfare was at an end, when the armor of the knight became an object of ridicule, when bodily strength and skill, meaning so much before, became of comparatively little value?
 Yet gunpowder did not stop warfare: quite the opposite it acted as a most powerful incentive.
 As regards the security of a country against foreign invasion, it is interesting to note that it depends only on the relative, and not the absolute, number of the individuals or magnitude of the forces, and that, if every country should reduce the war-force in the same ratio, the security would remain unaltered.
 An international agreement with the object of reducing to a minimum the war-force which, in view of the present still imperfect education of the masses, is absolutely indispensable, would, therefore, seem to be the first rational step to take toward diminishing the force retarding human movement.
 So we find that the three possible solutions of the great problem of increasing human energy are answered by the three words: food, peace, work.
 Many a year I have thought and pondered, lost myself in speculations and theories, considering man as a mass moved by a force, viewing his inexplicable movement in the light of a mechanical one, and applying the simple principles of mechanics to the analysis of the same until I arrived at these solutions, only to realize that they were taught to me in my early childhood.
 These three words sound the key-notes of the Christian religion.
 Their scientific meaning and purpose now clear to me: food to increase the mass, peace to diminish the retarding force, and work to increase the force accelerating human movement.
 These are the only three solutions which are possible of that great problem, and all of them have one object, one end, namely, to increase human energy.
 When we recognize this, we cannot help wondering how profoundly wise and scientific and how immensely practical the Christian religion is, and in what a marked contrast it stands in this respect to other religions.
 It is unmistakably the result of practical experiment and scientific observation which have extended through the ages, while other religions seem to be the outcome of merely abstract reasoning.
 Work, untiring effort, useful and accumulative, with periods of rest and recuperation aiming at higher efficiency, is its chief and ever-recurring command.
 Thus we are inspired both by Christianity and Science to do our utmost toward increasing the performance of mankind.
 This most important of human problems I shall now specifically consider.
 The ultimate results of development in these three directions are: first, the burning of coal by a cold process in a battery; second, the efficient utilization of the energy of the ambient medium; and, third the transmission without wires of electrical energy to any distance.
 In whatever way these results may be arrived at, their practical application will necessarily involve an extensive use of iron, and this invaluable metal will undoubtedly be an essential element in the further development along these three lines.
 If we succeed in burning coal by a cold process and thus obtain electrical energy in an efficient and inexpensive manner, we shall require in many practical uses of this energy electric motors that is, iron.
 If we are successful in deriving energy from the ambient medium, we shall need, both in the obtainment and utilization of the energy, machinery again, iron.
 If we realize the transmission of electrical energy without wires on an industrial scale, we shall be compelled to use extensively electric generators once more, iron.
 Whatever we may do, iron will probably be the chief means of accomplishment in the near future, possibly more so than in the past.
 How long its reign will last is difficult to tell, for even now aluminium is looming up as a threatening competitor.
 But for the time being, next to providing new resources of energy, it is of the greatest importance to making improvements in the manufacture and utilization of iron.
 Great advances are possible in these latter directions, which, if brought about, would enormously increase the useful performance of mankind.
 Iron is by far the most important factor in modern progress.
 It contributes more than any other industrial product to the force accelerating human movement.
 So general is the use of this metal, and so intimately is it connected with all that concerns our life, that it has become as indispensable to us as the very air we breathe.
 Its name is synonymous with usefulness.
 But, however great the influence of iron may be on the present human development, it does not add to the force urging man onward nearly as much as it might.
 First of all, its manufacture as now carried on is connected with an appalling waste of fuel that is, waste of energy.
 Then, again, only a part of all the iron produced is applied for useful purposes.
 A good part of it goes to create frictional resistances, while still another large part is the means of developing negative forces greatly retarding human movement.
 Thus the negative force of war is almost wholly represented in iron.
 Aluminium, however, will not stop at downing copper.
 Before many years have passed it will be engaged in a fierce struggle with iron, and in the latter it will find an adversary not easy to conquer.
 The issue of the contest will largely depend on whether iron shall be indispensable in electric machinery.
 This the future alone can decide.
 The magnetism as exhibited in iron is an isolated phenomenon in nature.
 What it is that makes this metal behave so radically different from all other materials in this respect has not yet been ascertained, though many theories have been suggested.
 Evidently some disturbing influence exists in nature which causes each molecule, like such a beam, to tilt either one or the other way.
 If the molecules are tilted one way, the body is magnetic; if they are tilted the other way, the body is non-magnetic; but both positions are stable, as they would be in the case of the hollow beam, owing to the rush of the fluid to the lower end.
 Now, the wonderful thing is that the molecules of all known bodies went one way, while those of iron went the other way.
 This metal, it would seem, has an origin entirely different from that of the rest of the globe.
 It is highly improbable that we shall discover some other and cheaper material which will equal or surpass iron in magnetic qualities.
 A far better way, however, to obtain power would be to avail ourselves of the sun's rays, which beat the earth incessantly and supply energy at a maximum rate of over four million horsepower per square mile.
 Although the average energy received per square mile in any locality during the year is only a small fraction of that amount, yet an inexhaustible source of power would be opened up by the discovery of some efficient method of utilizing the energy of the rays.
 The only rational way known to me at the time when I began the study of this subject was to employ some kind of heat- or thermodynamic-engine, driven by a volatile fluid evaporate in a boiler by the heat of the rays.
 But closer investigation of this method, and calculation, showed that, notwithstanding the apparently vast amount of energy received from the sun's rays, only a small fraction of that energy could be actually utilized in this manner.
 Furthermore, the energy supplied through the sun's radiations is periodical, and the same limitations as in the use of the windmill I found to exist here also.
 After a long study of this mode of obtaining motive power from the sun, taking into account the necessarily large bulk of the boiler, the low efficiency of the heat-engine, the additional cost of storing the energy and other drawbacks, I came to the conclusion that the "solar engine," a few instances excepted, could not be industrially exploited with success.
 Another way of getting motive power from the medium without consuming any material would be to utilize the heat contained in the earth, the water, or the air for driving an engine.
 It is a well-known fact that the interior portions of the globe are very hot, the temperature rising, as observations show, with the approach to the center at the rate of approximately 1 degree C. for every hundred feet of depth.
 The difficulties of sinking shafts and placing boilers at depths of, say, twelve thousand feet, corresponding to an increase in temperature of about 120 degrees C., are not insuperable, and we could certainly avail ourselves in this way of the internal heat of the globe.
 In fact, it would not be necessary to go to any depth at all in order to derive energy from the stored terrestrial heat.
 The superficial layers of the earth and the air strata close to the same are at a temperature sufficiently high to evaporate some extremely volatile substances, which we might use in our boilers instead of water.
 There is no doubt that a vessel might be propelled on the ocean by an engine driven by such a volatile fluid, no other energy being used but the heat abstracted from the water.
 But the amount of power which could be obtained in this manner would be, without further provision, very small.
 Electricity produced by natural causes is another source of energy which might be rendered available.
 Lightning discharges involve great amounts of electrical energy, which we could utilize by transforming and storing it.
 Some years ago I made known a method of electrical transformation which renders the first part of this task easy, but the storing of the energy of lightning discharges will be difficult to accomplish.
 When I advanced this system of telegraphy, my mind was dominated by the idea of effecting communication to any distance through the earth or environing medium, the practical consummation of which I considered of transcendent importance, chiefly on account of the moral effect which it could not fail to produce universally.
 As the first effort to this end I proposed at that time, to employ relay-stations with tuned circuits, in the hope of making thus practicable signaling over vast distances, even with apparatus of very moderate power then at my command.
 I was confident, however, that with properly designed machinery signals could be transmitted to any point of the globe, no matter what the distance, without the necessity of using such intermediate stations.
 I gained this conviction through the discovery of a singular electrical phenomenon, which I described early in 1892, in lectures I delivered before some scientific societies abroad, and which I have called a "rotating brush."
 This is a bundle of light which is formed, under certain conditions, in a vacuum-bulb, and which is of a sensitiveness to magnetic and electric influences bordering, so to speak, on the supernatural.
 This light-bundle is rapidly rotated by the earth's magnetism as many as twenty thousand times pre second, the rotation in these parts being opposite to what it would be in the southern hemisphere, while in the region of the magnetic equator it should not rotate at all.
 In its most sensitive state, which is difficult to obtain, it is responsive to electric or magnetic influences to an incredible degree.
 The mere stiffening of the muscles of the arm and consequent slight electrical change in the body of an observer standing at some distance from it, will perceptibly affect it.
 When in this highly sensitive state it is capable of indicating the slightest magnetic and electric changes taking place in the earth.
 The observation of this wonderful phenomenon impressed me strongly that communication at any distance could be easily effected by its means, provided that apparatus could be perfected capable of producing an electric or magnetic change of state, however small, in the terrestrial globe or environing medium.
 Another of these reasons was that I was led to recognize the transmission of electrical energy to any distance through the media as by far the best solution of the great problem of harnessing the sun's energy for the uses of man.
 For a long time I was convinced that such a transmission on an industrial scale, could never be realized, but a discovery which I made changed my view.
 I observed that under certain conditions the atmosphere, which is normally a high insulator, assumes conducting properties, and so becomes capable of conveying any amount of electrical energy.
 But the difficulties in the way of a practical utilization of this discovery for the purpose of transmitting electrical energy without wires were seemingly insuperable.
 Electrical pressures of many millions of volts had to be produced and handled; generating apparatus of a novel kind, capable of withstanding the immense electrical stresses, had to be invented and perfected, and a complete safety against the dangers of the high-tension currents had to be attained in the system before its practical introduction could be even thought of.
 All this could not be done in a few weeks or months, or even years.
 The work required patience and constant application, but the improvements came, though slowly.
 Other valuable results were, however, arrived at in the course of this long-continued work, of which I shall endeavor to give a brief account, enumerating the chief advances as they were successively effected.
 The discovery of the conducting properties of the air, though unexpected, was only a natural result of experiments in a special field which I had carried on for some years before.
 It was, I believe, during 1889 that certain possibilities offered by extremely rapid electrical oscillations determined me to design a number of special machines adapted for their investigation.
 Owing to the peculiar requirements, the construction of these machines was very difficult, and consumed much time and effort; but my work on them was generously rewarded, for I reached by their means several novel and important results.
 One of the earliest observations I made with these new machines was that electrical oscillations of an extremely high rate act in an extraordinary manner upon the human organism.
 Thus, for instance, I demonstrated that powerful electrical discharges of several hundred thousand volts, which at that time were considered absolutely deadly, could be passed through the body without inconvenience or hurtful consequences.
 These oscillations produced other specific physiological effects, which, upon my announcement, were eagerly taken up by skilled physicians and further investigated.
 This new field has proved itself fruitful beyond expectation, and in the few years which have passed since, it has been developed to such an extent that it now forms a legitimate and important department of medical science.
 Many results, thought impossible at that time, are now readily obtainable with these oscillations, and many experiments undreamed of then can now be readily performed by their means.
 I still remember with pleasure how, nine years ago, I passed the discharge of a powerful induction-coil through my body to demonstrate before a scientific society the comparative harmlessness of very rapidly vibrating electric currents, and I can still recall the astonishment of my audience.
 I would now undertake, with much less apprehension that I had in that experiment, to transmit through my body with such currents the entire electrical energy of the dynamos now working at Niagara forty or fifty thousand horse-power.
 I have produced electrical oscillations which were of such intensity that when circulating through my arms and chest they have melted wires which joined my hands, and still I felt no inconvenience.
 I have energized with such oscillations a loop of heavy copper wire so powerfully that masses of metal, and even objects of an electrical resistance specifically greater than that of human tissue brought close to or placed within the loop, were heated to a high temperature and melted, often with the violence of an explosion, and yet into this very space in which this terribly-destructive turmoil was going on I have repeatedly thrust my head without feeling anything or experiencing injurious after-effects.
 Another observation was that by means of such oscillations light could be produced in a novel and more economical manner, which promised to lead to an ideal system of electric illumination by vacuum-tubes, dispensing with the necessity of renewal of lamps or incandescent filaments, and possibly also with the use of wires in the interior of buildings.
 The efficiency of this light increases in proportion to the rate of the oscillations, and its commercial success is, therefore, dependent on the economical production of electrical vibrations of transcending rates.
 In this direction I have met with gratifying success of late, and the practical introduction of this new system of illumination is not far off.
 The investigations led to many other valuable observations and results, one of the more important of which was the demonstration of the practicability of supplying electrical energy through one wire without return.
 At first I was able to transmit in this novel manner only very small amounts of electrical energy, but in this line also my efforts have been rewarded with similar success.
 The photograph shown in Fig.
 3 illustrates, as its title explains, an actual transmission of this kind effected with apparatus used in other experiments here described.
 To what a degree the appliances have been perfected since my first demonstrations early in 1891 before a scientific society, when my apparatus was barely capable of lighting one lamp (which result was considered wonderful), will appear when I state that I have now no difficulty in lighting in this manner four or five hundred lamps, and could light many more.
 In fact, there is no limit to the amount of energy which may in this way be supplied to operate any kind of electrical device.
 After demonstrating the practicability of this method of transmission, the thought naturally occurred to me to use the earth as a conductor, thus dispensing with all wires.
 Whatever electricity may be, it is a fact that it behaves like an incompressible fluid, and the earth may be looked upon as an immense reservoir of electricity, which, I thought, could be disturbed effectively by a properly designed electrical machine.
 Accordingly, my next efforts were directed toward perfecting a special apparatus which would be highly effective in creating a disturbance of electricity in the earth.
 However extraordinary the results shown may appear, they are but trifling compared with those which are attainable by apparatus designed on these same principles.
 I have produced electrical discharges the actual path of which, from end to end, was probably more than one hundred feet long; but it would not be difficult to reach lengths one hundred times as great.
 I have produced electrical movements occurring at the rate of approximately one hundred thousand horse-power, but rates of one, five, or ten million horse-power are easily practicable.
 In these experiments effects were developed incomparably greater than any ever produced by human agencies, and yet these results are but an embryo of what is to be.
 That communication without wires to any point of the globe is practicable with such apparatus would need no demonstration, but through a discovery which I made I obtained absolute certitude.
 Popularly explained, it is exactly this: When we raise the voice and hear an echo in reply, we know that the sound of the voice must have reached a distant wall, or boundary, and must have been reflected from the same.
 Exactly as the sound, so an electrical wave is reflected, and the same evidence which is afforded by an echo is offered by an electrical phenomenon known as a "stationary" wave that is, a wave with fixed nodal and ventral regions.
 Instead of sending sound-vibrations toward a distant wall, I have sent electrical vibrations toward the remote boundaries of the earth, and instead of the wall the earth has replied.
 In place of an echo I have obtained a stationary electrical wave, a wave reflected from afar.
 Stationary waves in the earth mean something more than mere telegraphy without wires to any distance.
 They will enable us to attain many important specific results impossible otherwise.
 For instance, by their use we may produce at will, from a sending-station, an electrical effect in any particular region of the globe; we may determine the relative position or course of a moving object, such as a vessel at sea, the distance traversed by the same, or its speed; or we may send over the earth a wave of electricity traveling at any rate we desire, from the pace of a turtle up to lightning speed.
 With these developments we have every reason to anticipate that in a time not very distant most telegraphic messages across the oceans will be transmitted without cables.
 For short distances we need a "wireless" telephone, which requires no expert operators.
 The greater the spaces to be bridged, the more rational becomes communication without wires.
 The cable is not only an easily damaged and costly instrument, but it limits us in the speed of transmission by reason of a certain electrical property inseparable from its construction.
 A properly designed plant for effecting communication without wires ought to have many times the working capacity of a cable, while it will involve incomparably less expense.
 Not a long time will pass, I believe, before communication by cable will become obsolete, for not only will signaling by this new method be quicker and cheaper, but also much safer.
 By using some new means for isolating the messages which I have contrived, an almost perfect privacy can be secured.
 I have observed the above effects so far only up to a limited distance of about six hundred miles, but inasmuch as there is virtually no limit to the power of the vibrations producible with such an oscillator, I feel quite confident of the success of such a plant for effecting transoceanic communication.
 Nor is this all.
 My measurements and calculations have shown that it is perfectly practicable to produce on our globe, by the use of these principles, an electrical movement of such magnitude that, without the slightest doubt, its effect will be perceptible on some of our nearer planets, as Venus and Mars.
 Thus from mere possibility interplanetary communication has entered the stage of probability.
 In fact, that we can produce a distinct effect on one of these planets in this novel manner, namely, by disturbing the electrical condition of the earth, is beyond any doubt.
 This way of effecting such communication is, however, essentially different from all others which have so far been proposed by scientific men.
 In all the previous instances only a minute fraction of the total energy reaching the planetï¿½as much as it would be possible to concentrate in a reflector could be utilized by the supposed observer in his instrument.
 But by the means I have developed he would be enabled to concentrate the larger portion of the entire energy transmitted to the planet in his instrument, and the chances of affecting the latter are thereby increased many millionfold.
 Besides machinery for producing vibrations of the required power, we must have delicate means capable of revealing the effects of feeble influences exerted upon the earth.
 For such purposes, too, I have perfected new methods.
 By their use we shall likewise be able, among other things, to detect at considerable distance the presence of an iceberg or other object at sea.
 By their use, also, I have discovered some terrestrial phenomena still unexplained.
 That we can send a message to a planet is certain, that we can get an answer is probable: man is not the only being in the Infinite gifted with a mind.
 While I have not, as yet, actually effected a transmission of a considerable amount of energy, such as would be of industrial importance, to a great distance by this new method, I have operated several model plants under exactly the same conditions which will exist in a large plant of this kind, and the practicability of the system is thoroughly demonstrated.
 The experiments have shown conclusively that, with two terminals maintained at an elevation of not more than thirty thousand to thirty-five thousand feet above sea-level, and with an electrical pressure of fifteen to twenty million volts, the energy of thousands of horse-power can be transmitted over distances which may be hundreds and, if necessary, thousands of miles.
 I am hopeful, however, that I may be able to reduce very considerably the elevation of the terminals now required, and with this object I am following up an idea which promises such a realization.
 There is, of course, a popular prejudice against using an electrical pressure of millions of volts, which may cause sparks to fly at distances of hundreds of feet, but, paradoxical as it may seem, the system, as I have described it in a technical publication, offers greater personal safety than most of the ordinary distribution circuits now used in the cities.
 This is, in a measure, borne out by the fact that, although I have carried on such experiments for a number of years, no injury has been sustained either by me or any of my assistants.
 It is probable that we shall soon have a self-acting heat-engine capable of deriving moderate amounts of energy from the ambient medium.
 There is also a possibilityï¿½though a small oneï¿½that we may obtain electrical energy direct from the sun.
 This might be the case if the Maxwellian theory is true, according to which electrical vibrations of all rates should emanate from the sun.
 I am still investigating this subject.
 Sir William Crookes has shown in his beautiful invention known as the "radiometer" that rays may produce by impact a mechanical effect, and this may lead to some important revelation as to the utilization of the sun's rays in novel ways.
 Other sources of energy may be opened up, and new methods of deriving energy from the sun discovered, but none of these or similar achievements would equal in importance the transmission of power to any distance through the medium.
 It would be the best means of increasing the force accelerating the human mass.
 The mere moral influence of such a radical departure would be incalculable.
 On the other hand if at any point of the globe energy can be obtained in limited quantities from the ambient medium by means of a self-acting heat-engine or otherwise, the conditions will remain the same as before.
 Human performance will be increased, but men will remain strangers as they were.
 Universal Peace, assuming it to be in the fullest sense realizable, might not require eons for its accomplishment, however probable this may appear... A Means for Furthering Peace (1905)[edit] "The Transmission of Electrical Energy Without Wires as a Means for Furthering Peace" in Electrical World and Engineer (7 January 1905)  Universal Peace, assuming it to be in the fullest sense realizable, might not require eons for its accomplishment, however probable this may appear, judging from the imperceptibly slow growth of all great reformatory ideas of the past.
 … Our accepted estimates of the duration of natural metamorphoses, or changes in general, have been thrown in doubt of late.
 The very foundations of science have been shaken.
 A state of human life vaguely defined by the term "Universal Peace," while a result of cumulative effort through centuries past, might come into existence quickly, not unlike a crystal suddenly forms in a solution which has been slowly prepared.
 A state of human life vaguely defined by the term "Universal Peace," while a result of cumulative effort through centuries past, might come into existence quickly, not unlike a crystal suddenly forms in a solution which has been slowly prepared.
 But just as no effect can precede its cause, so this state can never be brought on by any pact between nations, however solemn.
 Experience is made before the law is formulated, both are related like cause and effect.
 So long as we are clearly conscious of the expectation, that peace is to result from such a parliamentary decision, so long have we a conclusive evidence that we are not fit for peace.
 Only then when we shall feel that such international meetings are mere formal procedures, unnecessary except in so far as they might serve to give definite expression to a common desire, will peace be assured.To judge from current events we must be, as yet, very distant from that blissful goal.
 It is true that we are proceeding towards it rapidly.
 There are abundant signs of this progress everywhere.
 The race enmities and prejudices are decidedly waning.
 We begin to think cosmically... We begin to think cosmically.
 Our sympathetic feelers reach out into the dim distance.
 The bacteria of the "Weltschmerz," are upon us.
 So far, however, universal harmony has been attained only in a single sphere of international relationship.
 That is the postal service.
 Its mechanism is working satisfactorily, but — how remote are we still from that scrupulous respect of the sanctity of the mail bag!
 And how much farther again is the next milestone on the road to peace — an international judicial service equally reliable as the postal!
 General disarmament being for the present entirely out of question, a proportionate reduction might be recommended.
 The safety of any country and of the world's commerce depending not on the absolute, but relative amount of war material, this would be evidently the first reasonable step to take towards universal economy and peace.
 But it would be a hopeless task to establish an equitable basis of adjustment.
 Population, naval strength, force of army, commercial importance, water-power, or any other natural resource, actual or prospective, are equally unsatisfactory standards to consider.
 To conquer by sheer force is becoming harder and harder every day.
 Defensive is getting continuously the advantage of offensive, as we progress in the satanic science of destruction.
 The new art of controlling electrically the movements and operations of individualized automata at a distance without wires, will soon enable any country to render its coasts impregnable against all naval attacks.
 The distance at which it can strike, and the destructive power of such a quasi-intelligent machine being for all practical purposes unlimited, the gun, the armor of the battleship and the wall of the fortress, lose their import and significance.
 One can prophesy with a Daniel's confidence that skilled electricians will settle the battles of the near future.
 But this is the least.
 In its effect upon war and peace, electricity offers still much greater and more wonderful possibilities.
 To stop war by the perfection of engines of destruction alone, might consume centuries and centuries.
 Other means must be employed to hasten the end.
 Misunderstandings are always caused by the inability of appreciating one another's point of view.
 This again is due to the ignorance of those concerned, not so much in their own, as in their mutual fields.
 The peril of a clash is aggravated by a more or less predominant sense of combativeness, posed by every human being.
 To resist this inherent fighting tendency the best way is to dispel ignorance of the doings of others by a systematic spread of general knowledge.
 With this object in view, it is most important to aid exchange of thought and intercourse.
 Our senses enable us to perceive only a minute portion of the outside world.
 Mutual understanding would be immensely facilitated by the use of one universal tongue.
 But which shall it be, is the great question.
 At present it looks as if the English might be adopted as such, though it must be admitted that it is not the most suitable.
 Each language, of course, excels in some feature.... A practical answer to that momentous question must perforce be found in times to come, for it is manifest that by adopting one common language the onward march of man would be prodigiously quickened.
 I do not believe that an artificial concoction, like Volapuk, will ever find universal acceptance, however time-saving it might be.
 That would be contrary to human nature.
 Languages have grown into our hearts.
 Our senses enable us to perceive only a minute portion of the outside world.
 Our hearing extends to a small distance.
 Our sight is impeded by intervening bodies and shadows.
 To know each other we must reach beyond the sphere of our sense perceptions.
 We must transmit our intelligence, travel, transport the materials and transfer the energies necessary for our existence.
 Following this thought we now realize, forcibly enough to dispense with argument, that of all other conquests of man, without exception, that which is most desirable, which would be most helpful in the establishment of universal peaceful relations is — the complete ANNIHILATION OF DISTANCE.
 To achieve this wonder, electricity is the one and only means.
 Inestimable good has already been done by the use of this all powerful agent, the nature of which is still a mystery.
 Our astonishment at what has been accomplished would be uncontrollable were it not held in check by the expectation of greater miracles to come.
 That one, the greatest of all, can be viewed in three aspects: Dissemination of intelligence, transportation, and transmission of power.
 Within a few years a simple and inexpensive device, readily carried about, will enable one to receive on land or sea the principal news, to hear a speech, a lecture, a song or play of a musical instrument, conveyed from any other region of the globe.
 Within a few years a simple and inexpensive device, readily carried about, will enable one to receive on land or sea the principal news, to hear a speech, a lecture, a song or play of a musical instrument, conveyed from any other region of the globe.
 The invention will also meet the crying need for cheap transmission to great distances, more especially over the oceans.
 The small working capacity of the cables and the excessive cost of messages are now fatal impediments in the dissemination of intelligence which can only be removed by transmission without wires.
 The ideal solution of the problem of transportation will be arrived at only when the complete annihilation of distance in the transmission of power in large amounts shall have become a commercial reality.
 That day we shall invade the domain of the bird.
 When the vexing problem of aerial navigation, which has defied his attempts for ages, is solved, man will advance with giant strides.
 That electrical energy can be economically transmitted without wires to any terrestrial distance, I have unmistakably established in numerous observations, experiments and measurements, qualitative and quantitative.
 These have demonstrated that is practicable to distribute power from a central plant in unlimited amounts, with a loss not exceeding a small fraction of one per cent, in the transmission, even to the greatest distance, twelve thousand miles — to the opposite end of the globe.
 Whatever the future may bring, the universal application of these great principles is fully assured, though it may be long in coming.
 I have obtained... spark discharges extending through more than one hundred feet and carrying currents of one thousand amperes, electromotive forces approximating twenty million volts, chemically active streamers covering areas of several thousand square feet, and electrical disturbances in the natural media surpassing those caused by lightning, in intensity.
 Whatever the future may bring, the universal application of these great principles is fully assured, though it may be long in coming.
 With the opening of the first power plant, incredulity will give way to wonderment, and this to ingratitude, as ever before.
 It should be borne in mind that electrical energy obtained by harnessing a waterfall is probably fifty times more effective than fuel energy.
 Since this is the most perfect way of rendering the sun's energy available, the direction of the future material development of man is clearly indicated.
 Electric current, after passing into the earth travels to the diametrically opposite region of the same and rebounding from there, returns to its point of departure with virtually undiminished force.
 The outgoing and returning currents clash and form nodes and loops similar to those observable on a vibrating cord.
 To traverse the entire distance of about twenty-five thousand miles, equal to the circumference of the globe, the current requires a certain time interval, which I have approximately ascertained.
 In yielding this knowledge, nature has revealed one of its most precious secrets, of inestimable consequence to man.
 So astounding are the facts in this connection, that it would seem as though the Creator, himself, had electrically designed this planet just for the purpose of enabling us to achieve wonders which, before my discovery, could not have been conceived by the wildest imagination.
 All that was great in the past was ridiculed, condemned, combated, suppressed — only to emerge all the more powerfully, all the more triumphantly from the struggle.
 The economic transmission of power without wires is of all-surpassing importance to man.
 By its means he will gain complete mastery of the air, the sea and the desert.
 It will enable him to dispense with the necessity of mining, pumping, transporting and burning fuel, and so do away with innumerable causes of sinful waste.
 By its means, he will obtain at any place and in any desired amount, the energy of remote waterfalls — to drive his machinery, to construct his canals, tunnels and highways, to manufacture the materials of his want, his clothing and food, to heat and light his home — year in, year out, ever and ever, by day and by night.
 It will make the living glorious sun his obedient, toiling slave.
 It will bring peace and harmony on earth.
 It is not a dream, it is a simple feat of scientific electrical engineering, only expensive — blind, faint-hearted, doubting world!
 .
 .
 .
 Humanity is not yet sufficiently advanced to be willingly led by the discover's keen searching sense.
 But who knows?
 Perhaps it is better in this present world of ours that a revolutionary idea or invention instead of being helped and patted, be hampered and ill-treated in its adolescence — by want of means, by selfish interest, pedantry, stupidity and ignorance; that it be attacked and stifled; that it pass through bitter trials and tribulations, through the heartless strife of commercial existence.
 So do we get our light.
 So all that was great in the past was ridiculed, condemned, combated, suppressed — only to emerge all the more powerfully, all the more triumphantly from the struggle.
 Man's Greatest Achievement (1908; 1930)[edit]  What has the future in store for this strange being, born of a breath, of perishable tissue, yet Immortal, with his powers fearful and Divine?
 Variant 1: An early version of this essay as quoted by Tesla in a letter (dated 19 April 1908) published in The New York Times (21 April 1908)   What magic will be wrought by him in the end?
 What is to be his greatest deed, his crowning achievement?
 To create and to annihilate material substance, cause it to aggregate in forms according to his desire, would be the supreme manifestation of the power of Man's mind, his most complete triumph over the physical world...
 According to an adopted theory, every ponderable atom is differentiated from a tenuous fluid, filling all space merely by spinning motion, as a whirl of water in a calm lake.
 By being set in movement this fluid, the ether, becomes gross matter.
 Its movement arrested, the primary substance reverts to its normal state.
 It appears, then, possible for man through harnessed energy of the medium and suitable agencies for starting and stopping ether whirls to cause matter to form and disappear.
 At his command, almost without effort on his part, old worlds would vanish and new ones would spring into being.
 He could alter the size of this planet, control its seasons, adjust its distance from the sun, guide it on its eternal journey along any path he might choose, through the depths of the universe.
 He could make planets collide and produce his suns and stars, his heat and light; he could originate life in all its infinite forms.
 To cause at will the birth and death of matter would be man's grandest deed, which would give him the mastery of physical creation, make him fulfill his ultimate destiny.
 Variant 2: New York American (6 July 1930)  When a child is born its sense-organs are brought in contact with the outer world.
 The waves of sound, heat, and light beat upon its feeble body, its sensitive nerve-fibres quiver, the muscles contract and relax in obedience: a gasp, a breath, and in this act a marvelous little engine, of inconceivable delicacy and complexity of construction, unlike any on earth, is hitched to the wheel-work of the Universe.
 The little engine labors and grows, performs more and more involved operations, becomes sensitive to ever subtler influences and now there manifests itself in the fully developed being — Man — a desire mysterious, inscrutable and irresistible: to imitate nature, to create, to work himself the wonders he perceives.
 Inspired to this task he searches, discovers and invents, designs and constructs, and covers with monuments of beauty, grandeur and awe, the star of his birth.
 He descends into the bowels of the globe to bring forth its hidden treasures and to unlock its immense imprisoned energies for his use.
 He invades the dark depths of the ocean and the azure regions of the sky.
 He peers in the innermost nooks and recesses of molecular structure and lays bare to his gaze worlds infinitely remote.
 He subdues and puts to his service the fierce, devastating spark of Prometheus, the titanic forces of the waterfall, the wind and the tide.
 He tames the thundering bolt of Jove and annihilates time and space.
 He makes the great Sun itself his obedient toiling slave.
 Such is his power and might that the heavens reverberate and the whole earth trembles by the mere sound of his voice.
 What has the future in store for this strange being, born of a breath, of perishable tissue, yet Immortal, with his powers fearful and Divine?
 What magic will be wrought by him in the end?
 What is to be his greatest deed, his crowning achievement?
 Long ago he recognized that all perceptible matter comes from a primary substance, or a tenuity beyond conception, filling all space, the Akasha or luminiferous ether, which is acted upon by the life-giving Prana or Creative Force, calling into existence, in never ending cycles, all things and phenomena.
 The primary substance, thrown into infinitesimal whirls of prodigious velocity, becomes gross matter; the force subsiding, the motion ceases and matter disappears, reverting to the primary substance.Can man control this grandest, most awe-inspiring of all processes in nature?
 Can he harness her inexhaustible energies to perform all their functions at his bidding?
 more still cause them to operate simply by the force of his will?If he could do this, he would have powers almost unlimited and supernatural.
 At his command, with but a slight effort on his part, old worlds would disappear and new ones of his planning would spring into being.
 He could fix, solidify and preserve the ethereal shapes of his imagining, the fleeting visions of his dreams.
 He could express all the creations of his mind on any scale, in forms concrete and imperishable.
 He could alter the size of this planet, control its seasons, guide it along any path he might choose through the depths of the Universe.
 He could cause planets to collide and produce his suns and stars, his heat and light.
 He could originate and develop life in all its infinite forms.
 To create and to annihilate material substance, cause it to aggregate in forms according to his desire, would be the supreme manifestation of the power of Man's mind, his most complete triumph over the physical world, his crowning achievement, which would place him beside his Creator, make him fulfill his Ultimate Destiny.
 My Inventions (1919)[edit] "My Inventions" first published in Electrical Experimenter magazine (1919); republished as My Inventions : The Autobiography of Nikola Tesla (1983)  I am credited with being one of the hardest workers and perhaps I am, if thought is the equivalent of labour, for I have devoted to it almost all of my waking hours … Chapter 1 : Early Life  The progressive development of man is vitally dependent on invention.
 It is the most important product of his creative brain.
 Its ultimate purpose is the complete mastery of mind over the material world, the harnessing of the forces of nature to human needs.
 This is the difficult task of the inventor who is often misunderstood and unrewarded.
 But he finds ample compensation in the pleasing exercises of his powers and in the knowledge of being one of that exceptionally privileged class without whom the race would have long ago perished in the bitter struggle against pitiless elements.
 Speaking for myself, I have already had more than my full measure of this exquisite enjoyment; so much, that for many years my life was little short of continuous rapture.
 I am credited with being one of the hardest workers and perhaps I am, if thought is the equivalent of labour, for I have devoted to it almost all of my waking hours.
 But if work is interpreted to be a definite performance in a specified time according to a rigid rule, then I may be the worst of idlers.
 Every effort under compulsion demands a sacrifice of life-energy.
 I never paid such a price.
 On the contrary, I have thrived on my thoughts.
 Our first endeavors are purely instinctive prompting of an imagination vivid and undisciplined.
 As we grow older reason asserts itself and we become more and more systematic and designing.
 But those early impulses, though not immediately productive, are of the greatest moment and may shape our very destinies.
 Indeed, I feel now that had I understood and cultivated instead of suppressing them, I would have added substantial value to my bequest to the world.
 But not until I had attained manhood did I realize that I was an inventor.
 The moment one constructs a device to carry into practice a crude idea, he finds himself unavoidably engrossed with the details of the apparatus.
 As he goes on improving and reconstructing, his force of concentration diminishes and he loses sight of the great underlying principle.… I do not rush into actual work.
 When I get an idea, I start at once building it up in my imagination.
 I change the construction, make improvements and operate the device in my mind.
 It is absolutely immaterial to me whether I run my turbine in thought or test it in my shop.
 I even note if it is out of balance.
 Of all things I liked books best.
 My father had a large library and whenever I could manage I tried to satisfy my passion for reading.
 He did not permit it and would fly in a rage when he caught me in the act.
 He hid the candles when he found that I was reading in secret.
 He did not want me to spoil my eyes.
 But I obtained tallow, made the wicking and cast the sticks into tin forms, and every night I would bush the keyhole and the cracks and read, often till dawn.
 Chapter 2 : Extraordinary Experiences   I feel convinced that my preservation was not altogether accidental, but was indeed the work of divine power.
 From childhood I was compelled to concentrate attention upon myself.
 This caused me much suffering, but to my present view, it was a blessing in disguise for it has taught me to appreciate the inestimable value of introspection in the preservation of life, as well as a means of achievement.
 The pressure of occupation and the incessant stream of impressions pouring into our consciousness through all the gateways of knowledge make modern existence hazardous in many ways.
 Most persons are so absorbed in the contemplation of the outside world that they are wholly oblivious to what is passing on within themselves.
 The premature death of millions is primarily traceable to this cause.
 Even among those who exercise care, it is a common mistake to avoid imaginary, and ignore the real dangers.
 And what is true of an individual also applies, more or less, to a people as a whole.
 I feel convinced that my preservation was not altogether accidental, but was indeed the work of divine power.
 An inventor's endeavor is essentially life saving.
 Whether he harnesses forces, improves devices, or provides new comforts and conveniences, he is adding to the safety of our existence.
 He is also better qualified than the average individual to protect himself in peril, for he is observant and resourceful.
 One day I went alone to the river to enjoy myself as usual.
 When I was a short distance from the masonry, however, I was horrified to observe that the water had risen and was carrying me along swiftly.… The pressure against my chest was great and I was barely able to keep my head above the surface.… Slowly and gradually I became exhausted and unable to withstand the strain longer.
 Just as I was about to let go, to be dashed against the rocks below, I saw in a flash of light a familiar diagram illustrating the hydraulic principle that the pressure of a fluid in motion is proportionate to the area exposed and automatically I turned on my left side.
 As if by magic, the pressure was reduced.
 Chapter 3 : The Rotary Magnetic Field  In one of the sinking spells [due to Cholera] which was thought to be the last, my father rushed into the room.
 I still see his pallid face as he tried to cheer me in tones belying his assurance.
 "Perhaps," I said, "I may get well if you will let me study engineering."
 "You will go to the best technical institution in the world," he solemnly replied, and I knew that he meant it.
 A heavy weight was lifted from my mind.… I came to life like Lazarus to the utter amazement of everybody.
 He declared that it could not be done and did me the honor of delivering a lecture on the subject, at the conclusion he remarked, "Mr. Tesla may accomplish great things, but he certainly will never do this.
 It would be equivalent to converting a steadily pulling force, like that of gravity into a rotary effort.
 It is a perpetual motion scheme, an impossible idea."
 But instinct is something which transcends knowledge.
 We have, undoubtedly, certain finer fibers that enable us to perceive truths when logical deduction, or any other willful effort of the brain, is futile.
 When I understood the task, it was not with a resolve such as men often make.
 With me it was a sacred vow, a question of life and death.
 I knew that I would perish if I failed.
 Now I felt that the battle was won.
 Back in the deep recesses of the brain was the solution, but I could net yet give it outward expression.
 A thousand secrets of nature which I might have stumbled upon accidentally, I would have given for that one which I had wrested from her against all odds and at the peril of my existence…  The idea came like a flash of lightning and in an instant the truth was revealed … One afternoon, which is ever present in my recollection, I was enjoying a walk with my friend in the city park and reciting poetry.
 At that age I knew entire books by heart, word for word.
 One of these was Goethe's Faust.
 The sun was just setting and reminded me of a glorious passage: Sie rückt und weicht, der Tag ist überlebt, Dort eilt sie hin und fördert neues Leben.
 O!
 daß kein Flügel mich vom Boden hebt, Ihr nach und immer nach zu streben!
 Ein schöner Traum, indessen sie entweicht.
 Ach!
 zu des Geistes Flügeln wird so leicht Kein körperlicher Flügel sich gesellen!
 [The glow retreats, done is the day of toil; It yonder hastes, new fields of life exploring; Ah, that no wing can lift me from the soil Upon its track to follow, follow soaring!
 A glorious dream!
 though now the glories fade.
 Alas!
 the wings that lift the mind no aid Of wings to lift the body can bequeath me.
 (tr.
 Bayard Taylor) As I uttered these inspiring words the idea came like a flash of lightning and in an instant the truth was revealed.
 I drew with a stick on the sand the diagram shown six years later in my address before the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, and my companion understood them perfectly.
 The images I saw were wonderfully sharp and clear and had the solidity of metal and stone, so much so that I told him, "See my motor here; watch me reverse it."
 I cannot begin to describe my emotions.
 Pygmalion seeing his statue come to life could not have been more deeply moved.
 A thousand secrets of nature which I might have stumbled upon accidentally, I would have given for that one which I had wrested from her against all odds and at the peril of my existence … On the Invention of the Induction Motor Chapter 4 : Tesla Coil and Transformer  For a while I gave myself up entirely to the intense enjoyment of picturing machines and devising new forms.
 It was a mental state of happiness about as complete as I have ever known in life.
 … When natural inclination develops into a passionate desire, one advances towards his goal in seven−league boots.
 In less than two months I evolved virtually all the types of motors and modifications of the system which are now identified with my name, and which are used under many other names all over the world.
 It was, perhaps, providential that the necessities of existence commanded a temporary halt to this consuming activity of the mind.
 The last line is about having to take up a job Chapter 5 : The Influences That Shape Our Destiny  Up to that time I never realized that I possessed any particular gift of discovery, but Lord Rayleigh, whom I always considered as an ideal man of science, had said so and if that was the case, I felt that I should concentrate on some big idea.
 After Lord Rayleigh's praise of Tesla at the Royal Institution, London, 1892 One day, as I was roaming the mountains, I sought shelter from an approaching storm.
 The sky became overhung with heavy clouds, but somehow the rain was delayed until, all of a sudden, there was a lightening flash and a few moments after, a deluge.
 This observation set me thinking.
 It was manifest that the two phenomena were closely related, as cause and effect, and a little reflection led me to the conclusion that the electrical energy involved in the precipitation of the water was inconsiderable, the function of the lightening being much like that of a sensitive trigger.
 Here was a stupendous possibility of achievement.
 If we could produce electric effects of the required quality, this whole planet and the conditions of existence on it could be transformed.
 The sun raises the water of the oceans and winds drive it to distant regions where it remains in a state of most delicate balance.
 If it were in our power to upset it when and wherever desired, this might life sustaining stream could be at will controlled.
 We could irrigate arid deserts, create lakes and rivers, and provide motive power in unlimited amounts.
 This would be the most efficient way of harnessing the sun to the uses of man.
 The consummation depended on our ability to develop electric forces of the order of those in nature.
 He had the highest regard for my attainments and gave me every evidence of his complete faith in my ability to ultimately achieve what I had set out to do.
 I am unwilling to accord to some small−minded and jealous individuals the satisfaction of having thwarted my efforts.
 These men are to me nothing more than microbes of a nasty disease.
 My project was retarded by laws of nature.
 The world was not prepared for it.
 It was too far ahead of time, but the same laws will prevail in the end and make it a triumphal success.
 About the role of J. Pierpont Morgan, and the failure of Tesla's "World System" project  What we now want most is closer contact and better understanding between individuals and communities all over the earth and the elimination of that fanatic devotion to exalted ideals of national egoism and pride, which is always prone to plunge the world into primeval barbarism and strife.
 Chapter 6 : The Magnifying Transmitter  It would be calamitous, indeed, if at this time when the art is in its infancy and the vast majority, not excepting even experts, have no conception of its ultimate possibilities, a measure would be rushed through the legislature making it a government monopoly.
 …universal evidence unmistakably shows that the best results are always obtained in healthful commercial competition.
 While I have not lost faith in its potentialities, my views have changed since.
 War can not be avoided until the physical cause for its recurrence is removed and this, in the last analysis, is the vast extent of the planet on which we live.
 Only though annihilation of distance in every respect, as the conveyance of intelligence, transport of passengers and supplies and transmission of energy will conditions be brought about some day, insuring permanency of friendly relations.
 What we now want most is closer contact and better understanding between individuals and communities all over the earth and the elimination of that fanatic devotion to exalted ideals of national egoism and pride, which is always prone to plunge the world into primeval barbarism and strife.
 No league or parliamentary act of any kind will ever prevent such a calamity.
 These are only new devices for putting the weak at the mercy of the strong.
 This mental activity, at first involuntary under the pressure of illness and suffering, gradually became second nature and led me finally to recognize that I was but an automaton devoid of free will in thought and action and merely responsible to the forces of the environment.
 Our bodies are of such complexity of structure, the motions we perform are so numerous and involved and the external impressions on our sense organs to such a degree delicate and elusive, that it is hard for the average person to grasp this fact.
 Yet nothing is more convincing to the trained investigator than the mechanistic theory of life which had been, in a measure, understood and propounded by Descartes three hundred years ago.
 At present, many of the ablest minds are trying to devise expedients for preventing a repetition of the awful conflict which is only theoretically ended and the duration and main issues of which I have correctly predicted in an article printed in the Sun of December 20, 1914.
 The proposed League is not a remedy but, on the contrary, in the opinion of a number of competent men, may bring about results just the opposite.
 It is particularly regrettable that a punitive policy was adopted in framing the terms of peace, because a few years hence, it will be possible for nations to fight without armies, ships or guns, by weapons far more terrible, to the destructive action and range of which there is virtually no limit.
 Any city, at a distance, whatsoever, from the enemy, can be destroyed by him and no power on earth can stop him from doing so.
 We crave for new sensations but soon become indifferent to them.
 The wonders of yesterday are today common occurrences.
 To me, the universe is simply a great machine which never came into being and never will end.
 The human being is no exception to the natural order.
 Man, like the universe, is a machine.
 Nothing enters our minds or determines our actions which is not directly or indirectly a response to stimuli beating upon our sense organs from without.
 Mr. Tesla Explains Why He Will Never Marry (1924)[edit] "An Engineer's Aspect" in Galveston Daily August 10, 1924 This growing tendency of women to overshadow the masculine is a sign of a deteriorating civilization.
 Woman's determined competition with man in the business world is breaking down some of the best traditions Perhaps the male in human society is useless.
 I am frank to admit that I don't know.
 If women are beginning to feel this way about it--and there is striking evidence at hand that they do--then we are entering upon the cruelest period of the world's history.
 The tendency of women to push aside man, supplanting the old spirit of cooperation with him in all the affairs of life, is very disappointing to me.
 A Machine to End War (1937)[edit] "Machine to End War by Nikola Tesla as told to George Sylvester Viereck" in Liberty (February 1937) While I am not a believer in the orthodox sense, I commend religion, first, because every individual should have some ideal — religious, artistic, scientific, or humanitarian — to give significance to his life.
 Second, because all the great religions contain wise prescriptions relating to the conduct of life, which hold good now as they did when they were promulgated.
 There is no conflict between the ideal of religion and the ideal of science, but science is opposed to theological dogmas because science is founded on fact.
 To me, the universe is simply a great machine which never came into being and never will end.
 The human being is no exception to the natural order.
 Man, like the universe, is a machine.
 Nothing enters our minds or determines our actions which is not directly or indirectly a response to stimuli beating upon our sense organs from without.
 Owing to the similarity of our construction and the sameness of our environment, we respond in like manner to similar stimuli, and from the concordance of our reactions, understanding is born.
 In the course of ages, mechanisms of infinite complexity are developed, but what we call "soul " or "spirit," is nothing more than the sum of the functionings of the body.
 When this functioning ceases, the "soul" or the "spirit" ceases likewise.
 In past ages, the law governing the survival of the fittest roughly weeded out the less desirable strains.
 Then man's new sense of pity began to interfere with the ruthless workings of nature.
 ...
 The only method compatible with our notions of civilization and the race is to prevent the breeding of the unfit by sterilization and the deliberate guidance of the mating instinct.
 ...
 The trend of opinion among eugenists is that we must make marriage more difficult.
 Certainly no one who is not a desirable parent should be permitted to produce progeny.
 A century from now it will no more occur to a normal person to mate with a person eugenically unfit than to marry a habitual criminal.
 Attributed to Tesla[edit] My brain is only a receiver.
 In the universe there is a core from which we obtain knowledge, strength, inspiration.
 I have not penetrated into the secrets of this core, but I know that it exists.
 Disputed[edit] If you want to find the secrets of the universe, think in terms of energy, frequency and vibration.
 First attibution is to Ralph Bergstresser who claims to have heard this from Tesla in a conversation "following an experience with the Maharaja's son"[1].
 Misattributed[edit] Anti-Semitism is nothing but the antagonistic attitude produced in non-Jews by the Jewish group.
 This is a normal social reaction.
 20 February 2019 Stephan Williams of SouthFront attributed this to Tesla, however it was Albert Einstein who wrote that, not Tesla  Quotes about Tesla[edit]  He'll be a child of the storm.
 The world, I think, will wait a long time for Nikola Tesla's equal in achievement and imagination.
 ~ Edwin Howard Armstrong  He did dream and his dreams came true, he did have visions but they were of a real future, not an imaginary one.
 ~ John Stone Stone  What we at one time were inclined, through a species of intellectual myopia, to regard as the fascinating but fantastical speculations of a man whom we are now compelled, in the light of modern experience and knowledge, to admit was a prophet.
 ~ J. S. Stone  Tesla was no mere lecturer and prophet.
 He saw to the fulfillment of his prophesies… J. S. Stone He'll be a child of the storm.
 Comment by the midwife who assisted his birth, "at the stroke of midnight" while lightning was striking during a thunderstorm.
 His mother replied, "No, of light.
 ", as quoted in the Tesla Universe Timeline We think of his contribution much oftener than that of Ampere and Ohm … the induction motor and our power system are enduring monuments to Nikola Tesla.
 Dr. E. F. W. Alexanderson[citation needed] The world, I think, will wait a long time for Nikola Tesla's equal in achievement and imagination.
 Edwin Howard Armstrong, as quoted in the The Tesla Museum exhibition in Belgrade, and by the Tesla Memorial Society of New York Nikola Tesla is proof that real greatness surpasses national borders and differences.
 George W. Bush in a message to Stjepan Mesić, quoted in "Nikola Tesla's anniversary and ancestry" in The New Generation (24 December 2006) Tesla is entitled to the enduring gratitude of mankind.
 Arthur Compton[citation needed] As an eminent pioneer in the realm of high frequency currents...
 I congratulate you on the great successes of your life's work.
 Albert Einstein in a letter to Tesla for his 75th birthday (1931) Tesla has done great things that will take the rest of us a long time to fully exploit.
 Lets just hope we exploit them for the right reasons!
 Kevin R. Hutson[citation needed] Nikola Tesla is the true unsung prophet of the electronic age; without whom our radio, auto ignition, telephone, alternating current power generation and transmission, radio and television would all have been impossible.
 Ben Johnston in the "Introduction" to My Inventions : The Autobiography of Nikola Tesla (1983).
 The invention of the wheel was perhaps rather obvious; but the invention of an invisible wheel, made of nothing but a magnetic field, was far from obvious, and that is what we owe to Nikola Tesla.
 Reginald Kapp (1956)[citation needed] Tesla has contributed more to electrical science than any man up to his time.
 Lord Kelvin, in a statement of 1896, as quoted in Prodigal Genius : The Life of Nikola Tesla (2007) by James J. O'Neill I am sending [Dr. Tesla]... my gratitude and my respect in overflowing measure.
 Robert Millikan[citation needed] All scientific men will be delighted to extend their warmest congratulations to Tesla and to express their appreciation of his great contributions to science.
 Ernest Rutherford[citation needed] Nikola Tesla's achievements in electrical science are monuments that symbolize America as a land of freedom and opportunity … Tesla's mind was a human dynamo that whirled to benefit mankind.
 David Sarnoff[citation needed] The evolution of electric power from the discovery of Faraday to the initial great installation of the Tesla polyphase system in 1896 is undoubtedly the most tremendous event in all engineering history.
 Charles F. Scott[citation needed] I misunderstood Tesla.
 I think we all misunderstood Tesla.
 We thought he was a dreamer and visionary.
 He did dream and his dreams came true, he did have visions but they were of a real future, not an imaginary one.
 Tesla was the first man to lift his eyes high enough to see that the rarified stratum of atmosphere above our earth was destined to play an important role in the radio telegraphy of the future, a fact which had to obtrude itself on the attention of most of us before we saw it.
 But Tesla also perceived what many of us did not in those days, namely, the currents which flowed way from the base of the antenna over the surface of the earth and in the earth itself.
 John Stone Stone in "John Stone Stone on Nikola Tesla's Priority in Radio and Continuous-Wave Radiofrequency Apparatus" (1915) Tesla, with his almost preternatural insight into alternating current phenomenon that had enabled him some years before to revolutionize the art of electric power transmission through the invention of the rotary field motor, knew how to make resonance serve, not merely the role of a microscope to make visible the electric oscillations, as Hertz had done, but he made it serve the role of a stereopticon to render spectacular to large audiences the phenomena of electric oscillations and high frequency currents....He did more to excite interest and create an intelligent understanding of these phenomena in the years 1891–1893 than anyone else, and the more we learn about high frequency phenomena, resonance, and radiation today, the nearer we find ourselves approaching what we at one time were inclined, through a species of intellectual myopia, to regard as the fascinating but fantastical speculations of a man whom we are now compelled, in the light of modern experience and knowledge, to admit was a prophet.
 But Tesla was no mere lecturer and prophet.
 He saw to the fulfillment of his prophesies and it has been difficult to make any but unimportant improvements in the art of radio-telegraphy without traveling part of the way at least, along a trail blazed by this pioneer who, though eminently ingenious, practical, and successful in the apparatus he devised and constructed, was so far ahead of his time that the best of us then mistook him for a dreamer.
 I never came anywhere near having an appreciation of what Mr. Tesla had done in this art until a very late date... John Stone Stone in "John Stone Stone on Nikola Tesla's Priority in Radio and Continuous-Wave Radiofrequency Apparatus" (1915) [Dr. Tesla's] lectures opened a new physical world to me... [He was] one of the kindest men I've ever encountered.
 The hours which I was permitted to spend together with [him] will always be among the fondest memories of my life.
 Jonathan Zenneck[citation needed] External links[edit]     Articles on this topic in other Wikimedia projects can be found at: Wikimedia Commons Nikola Tesla     Wikipedia has an article about: Nikola Tesla     Wikisource has original works written by or about: Nikola Tesla   Martin Thomas C., The Inventions, Researches and Writings of Nikola Tesla: With Special Reference to His Work in Polyphase Currents and High Potential Lighting, New York: The Electrical Engineer, 1894 (2nd Ed.)
 "Nikola Tesla Museum" (Belgrade, Serbia) "Tesla: Master of Lightning" (PBS) 21st Century Books: Tesla information resource collection of scientific papers and articles by Tesla and others about Tesla's work Tesla Universe: Articles The Tesla Collection The Complete Tesla Brief biography My Hero project Tribute page Nikola Tesla - PESWiki  ↑ Coments From The Inventor of the Purple Harmony Plates.
 Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply.
 By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
