It takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain.
 If you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a Sustaining Patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch.
 Your support really matters.
 MONTHLY DONATION  ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month  START NOW ONE-TIME DONATION You can also become a Spontaneous Supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: GIVE NOW BITCOIN DONATION    Partial to Bitcoin?
 You can beam some bit-love my way: 197usDS6AsL9wDKxtGM6xaWjmR5ejgqem7  Need to cancel a recurring donation?
 Go here.
 Archives       browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects BrainPickings.tags(); surprise me    Sunday newsletter Brain Pickings has a free Sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning.
 Here's an example.
 Like?
 Claim yours:                midweek newsletter Also: Because Brain Pickings is in its fourteenth year and because I write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, I have decided to plunge into my vast archive every Wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring.
 Subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard Sunday digest of new pieces:                ABOUT CONTACT  SUPPORT  SUBSCRIBE  Newsletter RSS CONNECT Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr  AlsoartsoundsbitesbookshelfThe Universe in VerseFiguringA Velocity of BeingFavorite ReadsSingularity: Marie Howe’s Ode to Stephen Hawking, Our Cosmic Belonging, and the Meaning of Home, in a Stunning Animated Short FilmThe Cosmic Miracle of Trees: Astronaut Leland Melvin Reads Pablo Neruda’s Love Letter to Earth’s ForestsThe Best of Brain Pickings 2019Favorite Books of 2019Favorite Children’s Books of 2019How Kepler Invented Science Fiction and Defended His Mother in a Witchcraft Trial While Revolutionizing Our Understanding of the Universe13 Life-Learnings from 13 Years of Brain PickingsEmily Dickinson’s Electric Love Letters to Susan GilbertRebecca Solnit’s Lovely Letter to Children About How Books Solace, Empower, and Transform UsFixed vs. Growth: The Two Basic Mindsets That Shape Our LivesIn Praise of the Telescopic Perspective: A Reflection on Living Through Turbulent TimesA Stoic’s Key to Peace of Mind: Seneca on the Antidote to AnxietyThe Courage to Be Yourself: E.E.
 Cummings on Art, Life, and Being Unafraid to FeelThe Writing of “Silent Spring”: Rachel Carson and the Culture-Shifting Courage to Speak Inconvenient Truth to PowerTimeless Advice on Writing: The Collected Wisdom of Great WritersA Rap on Race: Margaret Mead and James Baldwin’s Rare Conversation on Forgiveness and the Difference Between Guilt and ResponsibilityThe Science of Stress and How Our Emotions Affect Our Susceptibility to Burnout and DiseaseMary Oliver on What Attention Really Means and Her Moving Elegy for Her Soul MateRebecca Solnit on Hope in Dark Times, Resisting the Defeatism of Easy Despair, and What Victory Really Means for Movements of Social ChangeThe Lonely City: Adventures in the Art of Being Alonesee moreRelated ReadsThe Intelligence of Emotions: Philosopher Martha Nussbaum on How Storytelling Rewires Us and Why Befriending Our Neediness Is Essential for HappinessWhat Is an Emotion?
 William James’s Revolutionary 1884 Theory of How Our Bodies Affect Our FeelingsThe Secret Life of Pronouns: Computational Linguistics and What Our Word Choices Reveal About Us  Labors of Love Famous Writers' Sleep Habits vs.
 Literary Productivity, Visualized  7 Life-Learnings from 7 Years of Brain Pickings, Illustrated  Anaïs Nin on Love, Hand-Lettered by Debbie Millman  Anaïs Nin on Real Love, Illustrated by Debbie Millman  Susan Sontag on Love: Illustrated Diary Excerpts  Susan Sontag on Art: Illustrated Diary Excerpts  Albert Camus on Happiness and Love, Illustrated by Wendy MacNaughton  The Holstee Manifesto  The Silent Music of the Mind: Remembering Oliver Sacks         The Topography of Tears: A Stunning Aerial Tour of the Landscape of Human Emotion Through an Optical Microscope From Blake to biochemistry, “proof that we cannot put our feelings in one place and our thoughts in another.” By Maria Popova  “Emotions are not just the fuel that powers the psychological mechanism of a reasoning creature, they are parts, highly complex and messy parts, of this creature’s reasoning itself,” philosopher Martha Nussbaum wrote in her incisive treatise on the intelligence of emotions, titled after Proust’s powerful poetic image depicting the emotions as “geologic upheavals of thought.” But much of the messiness of our emotions comes from the inverse: Our thoughts, in a sense, are geologic upheavals of feeling — an immensity of our reasoning is devoted to making sense of, or rationalizing, the emotional patterns that underpin our intuitive responses to the world and therefore shape our very reality.
 Our interior lives unfold across landscapes that seem to belong to an alien world whose terrain is as difficult to map as it is to navigate — a world against which the young Dostoyevsky roiled in a frustrated letter on reason and emotion, and one which Antoine de Saint-Exupéry embraced so lyrically in one of the most memorable lines from The Little Prince: “It is such a secret place, the land of tears.”  The geologic complexity of that secret place is what photographer Rose-Lynn Fisher explores in The Topography of Tears (public library) — a striking series of duotone photographs of tears shed for a kaleidoscope of reasons, dried on glass slides and captured in a hundredfold magnification through a high-resolution optical microscope.
 (Artist Maira Kalman affirmed this notion with great simplicity and poignancy in a page from her marvelous philosophical children’s book: “If you need to cry you should cry.”) Tears of grief Tears of change Tears of possibility / hope Building on her previous mesmerizing photomicrographs of bees, Fisher uses the technological tools of science to probe the poetic, immaterial dimensions of a universal human behavior radiating infinite emotional hues.
 Accompanying each photograph is a caption ranging from the descriptive to the lyrically abstract — tears of compassion, tears of grief, tears of remorse, “tears for those who yearn for liberation,” “tears of elation at a liminal moment.”  Tears of compassion Tears of redemption In the introduction, Fisher reflects on the symbolic undertones of this inquiry into “the intangible poetry of life,” a project nearly a decade in the making: Though the empirical nature of tears is a composition of water, proteins, minerals, hormones, and enzymes, the topography of tears is a momentary landscape, transient as the fingerprint of someone in a dream.
 The accumulation of these images is like an ephemeral atlas.
 […] Tears are the medium of our most primal language in moments as unrelenting as death, as basic as hunger, and as complex as rites of passage.
 They are the evidence of our inner life overflowing its boundaries, spilling over into consciousness.
 Tears spontaneously release us to the possibility of realignment, reunion, catharsis, intractable resistance short-circuited… It’s as though each one of our tears carries a microcosm of the collective human experience, like one drop of an ocean.
 Tears of remorse Onion tears Tears for what couldn’t be fixed Fittingly, the book features a short essay on tears by the poet Ann Lauterbach, who observed in another beautiful meditation on why we make art that “the crucial job of artists is to find a way to release materials into the animated middle ground between subjects, and so to initiate the difficult but joyful process of human connection” — a perfect articulation of the heart of Fisher’s project.
 In her essay for the book, Lauterbach writes: “For a tear is an intellectual thing,” the great subversive 19th-century poet William Blake wrote, railing against the Deists, classical and contemporary; he believed they had stripped religion of its signal call for forgiveness, assigning too much authority to a single God and making human life untenable in its guilty abrasions.
 Tears are intellectual because they come from thoughts that spill over the body’s containing well; they are the secretion of excess we assign to emotion; perhaps emotion itself is simply caused by a surfeit of thought.
 One tries to unbind these durable dualities, to allow for the morphological shift that might allow the human creature to be complex but integrated, not divided into anatomical parts, all nouns and no transitive verb.
 We are not yet mechanical, technological things, we are intellectual — thinking — beings, and we cry when stirred beyond the capture of signifying Logos, which relents into flows of passionate silence.
 Perhaps this flow is the very proof that we cannot put our feelings in one place and our thoughts in another, the bleak result of a certain rationalism that threatens to overtake our civility — our capacity to forgive — and wants to make all ideas into abstractions, rigid and blunt, free of secretions.
 Overwhelmed tears Tears after goodbye Complement the contemplative splendor of The Topography of Tears with the science of why we cry, Mark Rothko on why people weep before his art, and William James’s revolutionary mind-body theory of emotion.
 It takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain.
 If you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a Sustaining Patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch.
 Your support really matters.
 Monthly donation  ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month  START NOW   One-time donation You can also become a Spontaneous Supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: GIVE NOW   BITCOIN DONATION    Partial to Bitcoin?
 You can beam some bit-love my way: 197usDS6AsL9wDKxtGM6xaWjmR5ejgqem7     Sunday newsletter Brain Pickings has a free Sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning.
 Here's an example.
 Like?
 Claim yours:                    midweek newsletter Also: Because Brain Pickings is in its fourteenth year and because I write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, I have decided to plunge into my vast archive every Wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring.
 Subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard Sunday digest of new pieces:                    			— 			Published June 9, 2017 			— 			https://www.brainpickings.org/2017/06/09/the-topography-of-tears-rose-lynn-fisher/ 			— 		  www.brainpickings.org     PRINT ARTICLE   EMAIL ARTICLE   Share ArticleTweetPocket Filed Under artbooksculturephotographyRose-Lynn Fisher    View Full Site     Brain Pickings participates in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to Amazon.
 In more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on Amazon from a link on here, I receive a small percentage of its price.
 Privacy policy.
