Amazon Relief Fund Administered by Emergency Assistance Foundation, Inc.               amazonrelief@emergencyassistancefdn.org
    | 888-659-9224   English | Polish| Czech| Slovak | Hindi | Japanese | Italian
    | German | French | Spanish      Supporting Amazon Partners The Amazon Relief Fund was created with a $25M USD donation from Amazon to help individuals who are facing financial hardship immediately after a natural disaster or an unforeseen personal hardship.
 The Fund relies on support from Amazon for this program and is not asking anyone contribute directly to this fund.
 Based on the structure of this program, individuals can contribute if they desire.
 Apply for a grant If you are experiencing a personal hardship or the effects of a qualified disaster, you can apply for a grant for financial assistance.
 Please note that initially the Amazon Relief Fund is focused on supporting Amazon Flex Delivery Partners, Delivery Service Partner Delivery Associates, Temporary Associates employed by eligible staffing agencies, and drivers of eligible line haul partners under financial distress due to a COVID-19 diagnosis or quarantine.
 Additional qualifying events for other eligible applicants will be available on the Amazon Relief Fund website as soon as possible.
 Please read the Application FAQs to see if you qualify.
 Application FAQ
       
      Apply for a Grant
         Already registered?
 - Sign in      The Emergency Assistance Foundation, Inc. will manage all fund activities, and when needed assist applicants with their grant applications.
 Amazon.com Services LLC will not have any insight into the grant approval process unless a grant recipient chooses to share his or her story.
 Community Resources
      The Emergency Assistance Foundation is here to help applicants through their challenging times.
 Please click the link above for social service suggestions, educational courses that cover everything from disaster preparedness to financial education and more.
 This fund has an initial donation of $25M USD from Amazon.
 The company will continue to make additional contributions to the fund as it’s needed.
 While we aren’t expecting anyone to do so, you can make a voluntary donation to the fund if you desire to do so.
 Donation FAQ
        Donate   //      All donations to the fund at the Emergency Assistance Foundation, Inc. are tax deductible in the U.S.
 The EIN# for the Emergency Assistance Foundation is 45-1813056.
 © 2020 Emergency Assistance Foundation, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
 Privacy Policy | Terms of use
