This is to counter that.
 Her remarks followed her speech highlighting her rural policy at DMACC's campus in Ankeny, IowaDemocratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton discussed Vice President Joe Biden possibly throwing his hat into the presidential ring, the shooting in Virginia Wednesday, and continued questions about the security of her personal email.Clinton, speaking warmly about Biden, said his decision on whether to run for president will be a difficult one for him and his family.
 "Vice President Biden is a friend of mine," Clinton told reporters during a media availability following an event in Ankeny.
 "I have a great deal of admiration and affection for him.
 I think he has to make a very difficult decision for himself and family.MORE: Clinton announces plan for rural America at stop in Iowa"He should have the space and opportunity to decide," Clinton said, later saying she couldn't imagine his grief, given his many losses.Biden's son, Beau Biden, died this summer after battling brain cancer.
 He also lost his first wife, Neilia, and their infant daughter in a car accident.
 "It has to be really hard for him.
 I was at his son's funeral.
 I can't imagine the grief and heartbreak," she said.
 "Joe's had more terrible events that people can contemplate — losing his first wife, losing his first daughter, now losing his son," she said.
 "He has to do what he has to do.
 "Clinton said she would continue campaigning strongly.
 "I will continue to put forth my policies," she said.
 "I have ideas about where I want to go.
 "I always thought this would be a competitive campaign," Clinton said.In answering questions about the murder of a TV reporter and cameraman in Virginia, Clinton said she was deeply saddened, but added that their deaths need to spark action to restrict access to handguns.
 "We've got to do something," she said.
 "It's a very difficult political issue.
 But we are smart enough, compassionate enough to balance legitimate Second Amendment rights concerns with preventive measures and control measures, so whatever motivated this murderer ... we will not see more needless, senseless deaths."
 "If guns weren't so readily available, if we had universal background checks, if we could put some time out between the person who got fired, or domestic abuse, or whatever other motivation ... maybe we could prevent this kind of carnage.
 "When questioned about her use of a private email server while secretary of state, Clinton said: "My use of personal email was allowed by the State Department.
 It clearly wasn't the best choice.
 I should have used two emails — one personal, one for work.
 And I take responsibility for that decision.
 "Clinton said she's turned over 55,000 pages of emails and her server and has asked to testify before a congressional committee in October.
 "I'm confident that this process will determine that I never sent nor received any email that was marked classified," she said.
