Ben Shapiro Examines Hard Questions in New Book     SocietyCommentary     ‘Plot to Change America’ Driven by Identity Politics     SocietyCommentary     3 Key Concepts That Woke ‘Anti-Racists’ Believe     SocietyCommentary     Uncovering the Origins of Identity Politics       SocietyCommentary     Birth of the Coalition of Normal People May Be Upon Us     SocietyCommentary     It’s Time to Elect Civility     LawCommentary     The Pollsters Got It Wrong Again     SocietyCommentary     Election 2020 Exposes Culture War: Overcoming Fear With Truth       SocietyCommentary     We Hear You: A Vice President, a Constitution, and a Time for Adults     SocietyCommentary     We Hear You: Taking on the Left, Even in Blue States     SocietyCommentary     We Hear You: From Gender Identity in Sports to Second Amendment Rights     SocietyCommentary     We Hear You: From Misery in San Francisco to Impeachment in Senate       PoliticsAnalysis     Election Night in Review: A Legal Expert Explains What We Know    Economy Analysis     Podcast: Can Young Adults Learn to Love the Free Market?
 PoliticsAnalysis     Obama or Trump: Who Has Done More for Blacks in America?
 The chart, seen to the right, purports to show that the next decade’s deficits are entirely the result of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, wars, bailouts, recession, and stimulus.
 Their methodology fails statistics 101.
 Imagine a basketball team that loses 100-98.
 It would make no sense to cherry pick one single basket by their opponent and blame it for 100 percent of the loss – letting all other baskets scored off the hook.
 Yet that is essentially what CBPP is doing.
 Under a current-policy budget baseline, Washington will collect $33 trillion in taxes and spend $46 trillion over the next decade.
 One could cherry-pick any $13 trillion in spending or tax policies and blame them for the entire budget deficit.
 CBPP chose to pick the tax cuts, wars, stimulus/bailouts, and economic downturn to equal the sum of the deficit.
 One could have just as easily singled out Social Security and Medicaid (combined cost: $13 trillion), Medicare and net interest costs ($13 trillion), or discretionary spending ($15 trillion) for blame.
 There is no mathematical reason to single out the programs CBPP selected while ignoring the other costs.
 So what is driving deficits?
 As the chart below shows, tax revenues (temporarily down due to the recession) are set to return to their 18 percent of GDP historical average once the economy recovers – even if all tax cuts are extended.
 Spending, on the other hand, is set to end the decade 6 percent of GDP above its historical average.
 Simply put the 6 percent of GDP deficit increase is the direct result of a 6 percent of GDP spending increase.
 There is no long-term revenue decline.
 And what’s driving spending?
 The chart below shows the escalating costs of Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and net interest as responsible for nearly the entire inflation-adjusted spending increase projected over the next decade.
 The Daily Signal depends on the support of readers like you.
 Donate now     Twitter     Facebook      Google+     LinkedIn     Email     Comments     Print       Brian Riedl Brian Riedl is The Heritage Foundation's lead budget analyst and has built a solid reputation for interpreting, explaining and reforming the often arcane realm of federal budget policy.
 Then get The Morning Bell, an early morning edition of the day’s most important political news, conservative commentary and original reporting from a team committed to following the truth no matter where it leads.
 We do.
 Try the Morning Bell and get the day’s most important news and commentary from a team committed to the truth in formats that respect your time…and your intelligence.
