Skip to main content           The Guardian - Back to home          Support The Guardian   Available for everyone, funded by readers    Contribute        Subscribe        Subscribe            Search jobs            Sign in          My account      Account overview     Billing     Profile     Emails &amp; marketing     Settings     Help      Comments &amp; replies                  Sign out           Search            switch to the  UK edition     switch to the  US edition     switch to the  Australia edition     switch to the  International edition     current edition:  UK edition      News     Opinion     Sport     Culture     Lifestyle          Show More           News     UK news     World news     Business     Coronavirus     Football     Environment     UK politics     Education     Society     Science     Tech     Global development     Obituaries        Opinion     The Guardian view     Columnists     Cartoons     Opinion videos     Letters        Sport     Football     Cricket     Rugby union     Tennis     Cycling     F1     Golf     Boxing     Rugby league     Racing     US sports        Culture     Film     Music     TV &amp; radio     Books     Art &amp; design     Stage     Games     Classical        Lifestyle     Fashion     Food     Recipes     Travel     Health &amp; fitness     Women     Men     Love &amp; sex     Beauty     Home &amp; garden     Money     Cars               What term do you want to search?
 On the eve of the Republican frontrunner’s scheduled rally in Chicago, Trump has come under increased scrutiny, after an attack on a non-violent protester led to criminal charges against a Trump supporter and Michelle Fields, a reporter for conservative website Breitbart, was allegedly assaulted by Corey Lewandowski, Trump’s campaign manager.
 Millions of ordinary Americans support Donald Trump.
 Here's why | Thomas Frank           Read more       Trump’s campaign events have long been magnets for protesters who disapprove of the Republican frontrunner’s hardline stance on immigration and support for a ban on Muslims entering the United States.
 But while protesters are not uncommon at political events, Trump’s rallies are the only ones that have seen a rash of violent incidents in response to them.
 On stage at events, Trump has encouraged this violence at times.
 On one occasion, he even pledged to pay legal fees for those who “roughed up” protesters.
 “Knock the crap out of him, would you?
 Seriously, OK, just knock the hell.
 I promise you I will pay for the legal fees, I promise, I promise,” Trump said in a rally in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, in February.
 He also urged security at a January rally in Vermont to confiscate protesters’ coats before booting them out into the winter night.
 However, Trump has also urged supporters “don’t hurt ’em” on other occasions as protesters have been escorted out.
 Each Trump rally now begins with a taped warning telling supporters: “If a protester starts demonstrating in the area around you, please do not touch or harm the protester.” At Thursday’s Republican debate, Trump defended himself from accusations that he had promoted violence at his events.
 “We have some protesters who are bad dudes, they have done bad things,” said the Republican frontrunner.
 “They are swinging, they are really dangerous and they get in there and they start hitting people.
 And we had a couple big, strong, powerful guys doing damage to people, not only the loudness, the loudness I don’t mind.
 But doing serious damage.
 Going back to November, when a Black Lives Matter protester at a Trump rally in Alabama was punched and kicked, demonstrators have faced increasing violence at the Republican frontrunner’s campaign events.
 The first criminal charges resulting from an incident were filed this week after a 78-year-old Trump supporter, John McGraw, allegedly punched a protester at a rally who was being escorted out by police.
 Facebook       Twitter       Pinterest         Trump supporter sucker-punches black protester at rally.
 McGraw, who has been charged with assault, later told a cameraman from Inside Edition he enjoyed “knocking the hell out of that big mouth”.
 He added that the protester, who was flipping off the crowd, “deserved it.
 The next time we see him, we might have to kill him.
 We don’t know who he is.
 He might be with a terrorist organization.” Andy Dean, a Trump surrogate and former contestant on his reality show The Apprentice, praised McGraw in an appearance on CNN on Thursday.
 He noted that Trump could not control the septuagenarian supporter’s actions and “at that age, it looks like good exercise”.
 This view was echoed by Omarosa Manigault, a fellow Trump surrogate and former contestant on The Apprentice, who excused the violence in a television appearance on Thursday night.
 “You have a right to get into a closed, private event, and you get what’s coming to you,” Manigault said.
 “I do not condone violence, but if you go into an environment where you’re interrupting 13, 14 times, do you expect a hug or kumbaya?”  But the violence has not just been limited to protesters.
 At least two journalists have now experienced violent incidents at Trump events.
 In February, Chris Morris, an acclaimed photographer for Time Magazine, was body-slammed by a secret service agent at a Trump event as he attempted to photograph protesters.
 In a statement to the Guardian about that incident, a spokesman for the secret service said: “The matter involving an encounter between a member of the Secret Service and a member of the media is under review and we therefore cannot comment further.” Most recently, Fields, a reporter for conservative website Breitbart, was allegedly assaulted by Trump’s campaign manager.
 In a scrum after Trump’s Tuesday night press conference in Florida, Fields attempted to ask Trump a question about affirmative action.
 Both Fields and another eyewitness state that Lewandowski forcibly grabbed her by the arm, so hard that he left bruises, and yanked her down to the ground.
 This account is backed up by audio obtained by the Guardian.
 Fields has since filed a criminal complaint against Lewandowski in Jupiter, Florida.
 Police there said on Friday that they were investigating an “alleged battery” and the “investigation is ongoing”.
 A report would be issued today, they said.
 Trump, Lewandowski and the Trump campaign denied the incident ever took place, the campaign calling it “entirely false”, and repeating the claim on Friday.
 Lewandowski has tweeted that Fields is “delusional”, citing a blogpost from a fringe website to attack her credibility.
 Trump himself told reporters on Thursday night “I think she made it up” and insisted the secret service had said nothing happened.
 The secret service declined to comment on either the incident or Trump’s statement.
 The incident with Fields may also endanger Trump’s standing with conservative media.
 Breitbart has been notoriously friendly to the Trump campaign to the point that detractors on the right label it “Trumpbart”.
 In a statement, Breitbart’s CEO and publisher, Larry Solov, said: “We are disappointed in the campaign’s response, in particular their effort to demean Michelle’s previous reporting.
 Michelle Fields is an intrepid reporter who has covered tough and dangerous stories.
 We stand behind her reporting, her techniques, and call again on Corey Lewandowski to apologize.” The rash of violence comes just before Trump’s scheduled rally in Chicago.
 Large-scale protests are anticipated in the majority minority city and activists there are already taking precautions to avoid potential attacks from supporters of the Republican frontrunner.
 View more comments                                                        Show comment      Hide comment                                  Hide comment                Welcome , you’re about to make your first comment!
 Before you post, we’d like to thank you for joining the debate - we’re glad you’ve chosen to participate and we value your opinions and experiences.
 Please choose your username under which you would like all your comments to show up.
 You can only set your username once.
 Username:      Must be 6-20 characters, letters and/or numbers only, no spaces.
 Please keep your posts respectful and abide by the community guidelines - and if you spot a comment you think doesn’t adhere to the guidelines, please use the ‘Report’ link next to it to let us know.
 Please preview your comment below and click ‘post’ when you’re happy with it.
 Post your comment     Cancel                                              Your comments are currently being pre-moderated ( why? )
 Please keep comments respectful and abide by the community guidelines .
 Enter comment         Post your comment     Preview     Hide preview     Cancel          B      i      &#8221;      Link                                                              Most popular                            US     Elections 2020     World     Environment     Soccer     US Politics     Business     Tech     Science     Newsletters            News     Opinion     Sport     Culture     Lifestyle            About us     Contact us     Complaints &amp; corrections     SecureDrop     Work for us     Privacy policy     Cookie policy     Terms &amp; conditions     Help       All topics     All writers     Modern Slavery Act     Digital newspaper archive     Facebook     Twitter     Newsletters       Advertise with us     Guardian Labs     Search jobs     Patrons       Support The Guardian   Available for everyone, funded by readers    Contribute        Subscribe            Back to top          © 2020 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
 All rights reserved.
