Skip to main content      Stay informed.
 Visit Lung.org/covid19 for information and resources about coronavirus disease (COVID-19).
 Change Location              Donate      Search Close    MenuClose    Blog LUNG FORCE Help &amp; Support Español Login     Search    Search         1-800-LUNGUSA  Submit a Question 
       Live Chat
          Change Location 
     ENG
             1-800-LUNGUSA
      Submit a Question 
      Live Chat
          Lung Health &amp; Diseases  Close Megamenu Lung Health &amp; Diseases    Lung Health &amp; Wellness   Protecting Your Lungs   Exercise and Lung Health    Breathing Exercises     How Lungs Work   Lung Capacity and Aging         Lung Disease Lookup   Asthma   COPD   COVID-19   Lung Cancer   Pulmonary Fibrosis   View More     Warning Signs of Lung Disease       Lung Procedures, Tests, &amp; Treatments   Lung Function Tests   CT Scan   Oxygen Therapy   Pulmonary Rehabilitation   View More     Saved By The Scan         Saved by the Scan If you smoked, low dose CT screening could save your life.
 Take the quiz to see if you should get screened.
 Quit Smoking  Close Megamenu Quit Smoking    Smoking Facts   Health Effects of Smoking   Health Effects of Secondhand Smoke   What's in a Cigarette?
 View More     I Want To Quit   Reasons to Quit   Benefits of Quitting   How to Quit Smoking   View More         Help Someone Quit   How Do You Begin?
 Being There for the Long Run   Reaching Out to a Friend Who Smokes     Help Teens Quit   What Teens Should Know   Kids and Smoking   INDEPTH   View More         E-Cigarettes and Vaping   E-Cigarettes and Lung Health   What's in an E-Cigarette   The Impact of E-Cigarettes on the Lung   View More     Join Freedom From Smoking   Freedom From Smoking Clinics   About Freedom From Smoking   Success Stories           Quit Don't Switch Stop smoking for good - don't switch to vaping.
 Health organizations warn of the dangers of vaping.
 Clean Air  Close Megamenu Clean Air    Clean Air at Home   How to Know if Your Air is Unhealthy   Keep Pollution Out of Your Home   View More     Indoor Air Pollutants &amp; Health   Radon   Cleaning Supplies and Household Chemicals   Dust Mites and Dust   View More         Clean Air at School   How to Know if There's a Problem   Ways to Protect Air Quality in Schools   Tools for Schools &amp; Districts     Clean Air at Work   Signs of Potential Problems     What Makes Air Unhealthy       Clean Air Outdoors   Air Quality Index   Particle Pollution   Toxic Air Pollutants   View More     Emergencies &amp; Natural Disasters   Climate Change         10 Tips to Protect Yourself from Unhealthy Air Read our simple and effective tips for protecting you and your family from the dangers of air pollution.
 Research &amp; Reports  Close Megamenu Research &amp; Reports    About Our Research   Research Initiatives     Airways Clinical Research Centers   Locations   Research Outcomes     Awards and Grants Opportunities       Meet the Researchers   Clinical Trials   Find a Clinical Trial     Trends in Lung Disease   State of Lung Cancer Report   Key Findings   State Rankings         State of the Air Report   Key Findings   City Rankings     State of Tobacco Control Report   Key Findings   State Grades           State of the Air Key Findings Our key findings add to the evidence that a changing climate is making it harder to protect human health.
 Policy &amp; Advocacy  Close Megamenu Policy &amp; Advocacy    Our Advocacy Victories   Take Action   Join the Lung Action Network   Alerts &amp; Petitions   View More     Public Policy Agenda   Advocacy Archive       Healthcare &amp; Lung Disease Initiatives   Asthma Policy &amp; Advocacy   Lung Cancer Policy &amp; Advocacy   Healthcare Policy &amp; Advocacy     Healthy Air Campaign   About the Campaign   Share Your Story   Health Professionals for Clean Air and Climate Action   View More         Tobacco Initiatives   Tobacco Cessation   Smokefree Environments   Tobacco Prevention   View More     State Legislated Actions on Tobacco Issues (SLATI)          Become an Advocate Share your voice and advocate for policies that will save lives.
 404: Page not found
    Back to Home    Show       A Breath of Fresh Air in Your Inbox  Want updates on the latest lung health news, including COVID-19 updates, research, inspiring stories and health information?
 Join the 500,000+ people getting our newsletter!
 Sign Up For Newsletter    Please leave this field empty
 
 	                          GET UPDATES  
          Please enter a valid email address
              
        Thank you!
 You've been successfully subscribed to our newsletter!
 Make a Donation 
 						Your tax-deductible donation funds lung disease and lung cancer research, new treatments, lung health education, and more.
 Make a Donation      Sign Up for Our Newsletter Join over 500,000 people who receive the latest news about lung health, including COVID-19, research, air quality, inspiring stories and resources.
 Sign Up For Newsletter    Please leave this field empty
 
 	                          GET UPDATES  
            Please enter a valid email address
                
          Thank you!
 You’ve been successfully subscribed to our newsletter!
 Better Breathers Club | Atrium Health: Cabarrus 
       Concord, NC | Mar 26, 2020
        
      Freedom From Smoking Clinic | Virtual 
       Online, CA | Oct 01, 2020
         See All Events         About Us  About Us Mission, Impact, and History Our Leadership Scientific Advisors Patient Advisory Groups Financial Statements In the News Careers Sponsors &amp; Supporters    For Media  For Media Media Experts Press Releases        Get Involved  Get Involved Events Volunteer Ways to Give Become an Advocate Share Your Story    Professional Education  Professional Education Training &amp; Certification Get Health Education Materials Get Involved All Programs          Signature Reports  Signature Reports State of the Air State of Lung Cancer Report State of Tobacco Control         Facebook     Twitter     Instagram     Youtube     LinkedIn          Contact Us  Contact Us 1-800-LUNGUSA (1-800-586-4872) Submit a Question        Facebook     Twitter     Instagram     Youtube     LinkedIn                 Terms of Use   Policies   Sitemap   Privacy Policy   ©2020 American Lung Association.
 The American Lung Association is a 501(c)(3) charitable organization.
 Our Tax ID is: 13‑1632524.
 This website uses cookies to improve content delivery.
 Learn more   Change Location       Back to top Skip to main content   
    Select Your Location
    
    Select your location to view local American Lung Association events and news near you.
