Skip to main content              Menu       Search    Search the NHS website       Search      Close search        Menu     Close menu        Home           Health A-Z          Live Well          Care and support          Health news          Services near you              Home   Health A to Z   Coronavirus (COVID-19)   Self-isolation and treating coronavirus symptoms     Back to     Self-isolation and treating coronavirus symptoms            How to treat coronavirus symptoms at home       There is currently no specific treatment for coronavirus (COVID-19), but you can often ease the symptoms at home until you recover.
 Information:  If you're concerned about your symptoms and need medical advice, use the NHS 111 online coronavirus service.
 Treating a high temperatureIf you have a high temperature, it can help to:get lots of restdrink plenty of fluids (water is best) to avoid dehydration – drink enough so your pee is light yellow and cleartake paracetamol or ibuprofen if you feel uncomfortable     Is it safe to take ibuprofen if I have symptoms of coronavirus?
 There have been some news reports of anti-inflammatory painkillers, such as ibuprofen, making coronavirus worse.The Commission on Human Medicines has now confirmed there is no clear evidence that using ibuprofen to treat symptoms such as a high temperature makes coronavirus worse.You can take paracetamol or ibuprofen to treat symptoms of coronavirus.
 Try paracetamol first if you can, as it has fewer side effects than ibuprofen and is the safer choice for most people.Always follow the instructions that come with your medicine.
 Treating a coughIf you have a cough, it's best to avoid lying on your back.
 Lie on your side or sit upright instead.To help ease a cough, try having a teaspoon of honey.
 But do not give honey to babies under 12 months.If this does not help, you could contact a pharmacist for advice about cough treatments.
 Do not go to a pharmacy If you or someone you live with has coronavirus symptoms, you must all stay at home.Try calling or contacting the pharmacy online instead.
 Information:  Get help while you're staying at homeNHS Volunteer Responders can help you while you have to stay at home (self-isolate).They can help with things like collecting shopping and medicines.Call 0808 196 3646 (8am to 8pm, everyday) to arrange help from a volunteer.
 Do not use a fan as it may spread the virus.You could also try:breathing slowly in through your nose and out through your mouth, with your lips together like you're gently blowing out a candlesitting upright in a chairrelaxing your shoulders, so you're not hunchedleaning forward slightly – support yourself by putting your hands on your knees or on something stable like a chairTry not to panic if you're feeling breathless.
 This can make it worse.
 Important Feeling breathless can be a sign of a more serious coronavirus infection.If you feel breathless and it's getting worse, get medical advice from the NHS 111 online coronavirus service.
 Tips For breathlessness Find out how you can help relieve breathlessness.
 Media last reviewed: 2 June 2020  Media review due: 2 June 2023                 More in Self-isolation and treating coronavirus symptoms             When to self-isolate and what to do                   How long to self-isolate                   How to avoid spreading coronavirus to people you live with                  How to treat coronavirus symptoms at home                  Help and financial support while you're self-isolating                   What to do if coronavirus symptoms get worse                   What to do if you get coronavirus symptoms again                     Page last reviewed: 6 November 2020      Next review due: 13 November 2020         Support links  NHS sites About us Contact us Profile editor login Sitemap Accessibility statement Our policies Cookies  © Crown copyright
