Skip to main contentClosecloseDonateWBURwbur CommonHealthAboutArchiveNewsletterFood, We Need To TalkMagic PillPlay Listen LiveSchedulePrograms + PodcastsSearchAboutCitySpaceDonate Your CarMembershipInside WBURCampaign For WBURCoronavirus CoverageMAP: Coronavirus CasesTown-By-Town DataOn PointHere &amp; NowRadio BostonCommonHealthCognoscentiThe ARTeryMoreListen Live: Best of Car TalkPlay15sRepeatPlay15sForward/00:00Playing LiveCloseCloseBest of Car TalkValue this story?
 DonateWBURwbur DonateSearch CommonHealthSupport the news CoronavirusWith Empty Beds And An Expandable ICU, Mass.
 General 'Looks Down The Barrel' Of OutbreakMarch 27, 2020Carey GoldbergTwitterTwitterfacebookEmailA staff of about 200 janitors cleans Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston (pictured below) multiple times a day during the coronavirus outbreak.
 (Michael Dwyer/AP)Massachusetts General Hospital currently has 22 COVID-19 patients in intensive care, but it’s ready for many more, its president said Friday.Mass.
 General's chief, Dr. Peter Slavin, said the hospital is prepared for a surge of coronavirus patients.
 "It currently operates about 150 intensive care beds and we think we could expand that to a total of 400," he said.
 "And we think we have the space, the staff and the ventilator capacity necessary to do so."
 Though, he added, "We certainly hope we never have to implement that plan.
 "The hospital is unusually empty these days in order to have room for a surge of patients, Slavin said, with only about 65% of beds occupied compared to normally closer to 99%, and revenue roughly cut in half.
 Among those beds, he said, 163 are occupied by patients who have tested positive for the coronavirus or are awaiting results.Slavin and the hospital's chief of infectious diseases, Dr. Rochelle Walensky, told the Massachusetts High Technology Council that the hospital, which is a nationally designated center for care during outbreaks and disasters, is operating under a new rhythm.
 "We used to worry about a whole host of things."
 Slavin said.
 "I can't even remember what those things were.
 We get up every morning, we fight COVID-19, we try to get a little bit of sleep at night, and then we wake up in the morning and do the same thing over again.
 And we anticipate being in that mode for the foreseeable future.
 "But the two did report progress.
 The hospital's lab was one of the first to roll out in-house testing, Walensky said, "which has made things extraordinarily easier for us."
 In contrast to the previous dire shortage of tests, "now we can do about 400 or 500 tests in house a day," she said, and the results come back within eight hours.Walensky sounded a highly cautious note about two potential treatments under consideration for COVID-19: an antiviral drug, remdesivir — Mass.
 General is now enrolling patients in a clinical trial of it — and hydroxychloroquine, a malaria drug.
 But she expressed hope that attempts to develop treatments from the antibodies of people who've had the virus and recovered from it could pan out.Asked when the public can emerge from its stay-at-home state, Walensky said modelers project virus peaks in mid-April, and it will likely be mid-May before restrictions can be relaxed, and even then with cautious moves.
 "Those conversations need to happen," she said.
 "We've been in kind of an all-hands-on-deck mode as to what we're about to face as we look down the barrel.
 But I think as soon as we get out of that phase, the next thing we really need to think about is what does it look like on the other side of this, and how quickly can we safely emerge?
 General 'Looks Down The Barrel' Of Outbreak","pageTitlePrefix":"","pageDescription":"The chief of Massachusetts General Hospital says its 150 ICU beds can be expanded to 400 beds if needed for coronavirus patients, and meanwhile the hospital is unusually empty.
 99% Invisible is a weekly exploration of the process and power of design and architecture.
 From award winning producer Roman Mars.
 Twenty five years later, Maria is on a quest to understand what it means to love, mourn and remember Selena.
 In this intimate journey, Maria explores what Selena’s legacy shows us about belonging in America.
 Some of the victims were career criminals.
 Some were truly innocent.
 All of them left behind families who never saw justice.
 Each 10- to 20-minute episode explores important issues like kindness, persistence and generosity.
 And each episode ends with an activity that inspires a deeper conversation between children and grown-ups.
 Every weekday afternoon, the hosts of All Things Considered and Kelly McEvers from Embedded help you consider the major stories of the day in less than 15 minutes, featuring the reporting and storytelling resources of NPR.
 Listeners in Boston will hear reporting on their community from their community, alongside a national view from NPR.
 Produced by WNYC Studios.
 Host Geoff Edgers paints intimate, sound-rich, and surprising portraits of some of the most creative people in the world.
 The first season includes: Norm Macdonald, Ava Duvernay, Ms. Pat, Hanson and David Letterman.
 A collaboration between WBUR and The Washington Post.
 ","type":"section","subnav":[],"relativeURL":"\u002Fedify-higher-ed","apiURL":"http:\u002F\u002Fapi.wbur.org\u002Fchannels\u002Fedify-higher-ed","externalURL":null,"miniExcerpt":"Edify's home for higher education news and feature stories.
 Hosts Ben Brock Johnson and Amory Sivertson dig into the site's vast and curious ecosystem of online communities, collaborating with Reddit's 330 million users and over 140 thousand communities to find all kinds of jaw-dropping narratives.
 A collaboration between WBUR and Reddit.
 CitySpace is WBUR on stage.
 Convening leaders in all fields for an array of offerings — readings, interviews, debates, conversations, panels, podcasts, performances, story slams, theater, comedy, book clubs, demonstrations — CitySpace is the destination to be inspired, to be entertained, to be educated.
 Be part of the intimate audience or listen to the broadcast.
 CitySpace is WBUR on stage.
 Hosts Juna Gjata and Dr. Eddie Phillips wield solid science, medical knowledge, common sense and an endless supply of dad jokes to teach us how to eat better and feel better about it.
 Hint: It’s not dieting.
 They discuss exercise, body image, food addiction, genetics, weight loss and more.
 A WBUR production.
 Hosted by Pulitzer Prize-winning author and journalist Ron Suskind and noted Boston College historian Heather Cox Richardson, the podcast examines the national political landscape and dives into the historical context.
 New episodes available every Thursday.
 Well, the moment is here and the podcast making it happen is Heavyweight from Gimlet Media.
 In each episode, hosts and reporters Yasmin Amer and Andrea Asuaje search the world for good news stories that will restore your faith in humanity.
 A production of WBUR.
 Twenty-eight years later, not a single piece in a haul worth half a billion dollars has surfaced.
 The art, and the thieves who made off with it, remain at large.
 With first-ever interviews, unprecedented access, and more than a year of investigative reporting, \"Last Seen\" takes us into the biggest unsolved art heist in history.
 A joint production from WBUR and The Boston Globe.
 We’re interested in what experiments are happening in Massachusetts K-12 schools, what is being learned and who is behind them.
 We want to understand how Massachusetts students will be learning two, five and 10 years from now.
 It has included performances by Kate Winslet, Uma Thurman, Angela Bassett, Jake Gyllenhaal, Sterling K. Brown, and more.
 A collaboration between WBUR and The New York Times.
 Produced by WNYC Studios.
 From the economy and health care to politics and the environment – and so much more – On Point host Meghna Chakrabarti speaks with newsmakers and real people about the issues that matter most.
 On Point is produced by WBUR for NPR.
 Interrogative.
 Insightful.
 And trained rats, time travel, celebrity dogs, lovelorn phone scammers, angry flower children, workplace iguanas, and more.
 Hosted by PJ Vogt and Alex Goldman, from Gimlet.
 Credible, fact based and without a partisan agenda, Reveal combines the power and artistry of “driveway moment” storytelling with data-rich reporting on critically important issues.
 The result is stories that inform and inspire, arming our listeners with information to right injustices, hold the powerful accountable and improve lives.
 From Malcolm Gladwell and Panoply Media.
 Hosted by Boston Globe sports columnist Chris Gasper, in partnership with WBUR, Boston’s NPR station, this daily show will make you feel closer to your favorite teams than ever before.
 \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n","type":"section","subnav":[],"relativeURL":"\u002Fjfk-massachusetts-centennial","apiURL":"http:\u002F\u002Fapi.wbur.org\u002Fchannels\u002Fjfk-massachusetts-centennial","externalURL":null,"miniExcerpt":"How Massachusetts shaped JFK -- and how he shaped the commonwealth.
 Learn a ton.
 Laugh a lot.
 And in the future, the nature of work may look drastically different.
 This 2017 Bostonomix series looks at the jobs of the future and the skills needed for those jobs.
 (Published Oct. 30 - Nov. 3)","type":"section","subnav":[],"relativeURL":"\u002Ffuture-of-work","apiURL":"http:\u002F\u002Fapi.wbur.org\u002Fchannels\u002Ffuture-of-work","externalURL":null,"miniExcerpt":"Work is changing.
 And in the future, the nature of work may look drastically different.
 This 2017 Bostonomix series looks at the jobs of the future and the skills needed for those jobs.
 But the story has just begun.
 Most of the stories are journalism, with an occasional comedy routine or essay.
 The biggest stories and ideas — from politics to pop culture — in 10 minutes.
 ","source":"wait-wait-dont-tell-me","description":"NPR's weekly current events quiz show.
 You don't have to know anything about cars to love this one hour weekly laugh fest.
 Most of the stories are journalism, with an occasional comedy routine or essay.
 ","description":"NPR's weekly current events quiz show.
 Have a laugh and test your news knowledge while figuring out what's real and what we've made up.
 Where sound illuminates ideas, and the boundaries blur between science, philosophy, and human experience.
 Credible, fact based and without a partisan agenda, Reveal combines the power and artistry of “driveway moment” storytelling with data-rich reporting on critically important issues.
 Ask Me Another is a co-production of NPR and WNYC.
 We focus on presenting compelling personal stories -- mixing killer beats with real drama to produce cinematic, dramatic and kick-ass radio.
 Hosted by Josè Masso for more than 30 years.
 Hosted by Josè Masso for more than 30 years.
 Based on riveting TEDTalks from the world's most remarkable minds.
 It is produced by The New Yorker and WNYC Studios.
 ","She has been the Boston bureau chief of The New York Times, a staff Moscow correspondent for The Los Angeles Times, and a health\u002Fscience reporter for The Boston Globe.
 ","She is co-author of the triple memoir \"Three Wishes: A True Story Of Good Friends, Crushing Heartbreak and Astonishing Luck On Our Way To Love and Motherhood.\""],"apiURL":"http:\u002F\u002Fapi.wbur.org\u002Fpeople\u002Fcarey-goldberg","relativeURL":"\u002Finside\u002Fstaff\u002Fcarey-goldberg","organization":"wbur","embedMeta":null,"shortBio":"Carey Goldberg is the editor of WBUR's CommonHealth section.
 General's chief, Dr. Peter Slavin, said the hospital is prepared for a surge of coronavirus patients.
 ","\"It currently operates about 150 intensive care beds and we think we could expand that to a total of 400,\" he said.
 \"And we think we have the space, the staff and the ventilator capacity necessary to do so.\" Though, he added, \"We certainly hope we never have to implement that plan.\"","The hospital is unusually empty these days in order to have room for a surge of patients, Slavin said, with only about 65% of beds occupied compared to normally closer to 99%, and revenue roughly cut in half.
 Among those beds, he said, 163 are occupied by patients who have tested positive for the coronavirus or are awaiting results.
 ","\u003C!--more--\u003E","Slavin and the hospital's chief of infectious diseases, Dr. Rochelle Walensky, told the Massachusetts High Technology Council that the hospital, which is a nationally designated center for care during outbreaks and disasters, is operating under a new rhythm.
 ","\"We used to worry about a whole host of things.\" Slavin said.
 \"I can't even remember what those things were.
 We get up every morning, we fight COVID-19, we try to get a little bit of sleep at night, and then we wake up in the morning and do the same thing over again.
 And we anticipate being in that mode for the foreseeable future.\"","But the two did report progress.
 The hospital's lab was one of the first to roll out in-house testing, Walensky said, \"which has made things extraordinarily easier for us.\" In contrast to the previous dire shortage of tests, \"now we can do about 400 or 500 tests in house a day,\" she said, and the results come back within eight hours.
 ","Walensky sounded a highly cautious note about two potential treatments under consideration for COVID-19: an antiviral drug, remdesivir &mdash; Mass.
 ","Asked when the public can emerge from its stay-at-home state, Walensky said modelers project virus peaks in mid-April, and it will likely be mid-May before restrictions can be relaxed, and even then with cautious moves.
 ","\"Those conversations need to happen,\" she said.
 \"We've been in kind of an all-hands-on-deck mode as to what we're about to face as we look down the barrel.
 (Michael Dwyer\u002FAP)","caption":"A staff of about 200 janitors cleans Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston (pictured below) multiple times a day during the coronavirus outbreak.
 (Michael Dwyer\u002FAP)","description":"A staff of about 200 janitors cleans Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston (pictured below) multiple times a day during the coronavirus outbreak.
 (Michael Dwyer\u002FAP)","caption":"A staff of about 200 janitors cleans Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston (pictured below) multiple times a day during the coronavirus outbreak.
 (Michael Dwyer\u002FAP)","description":"A staff of about 200 janitors cleans Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston (pictured below) multiple times a day during the coronavirus outbreak.
 General 'Looks Down The Barrel' Of Outbreak","pageTitlePrefix":"","pageDescription":"The chief of Massachusetts General Hospital says its 150 ICU beds can be expanded to 400 beds if needed for coronavirus patients, and meanwhile the hospital is unusually empty.
