Skip to main content         An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know   Here’s how you know          Official websites use .gov      A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
 Secure .gov websites use HTTPS      A lock (LockA locked padlock) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website.
 Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
 Search form  Search             Main menu  AboutBudget &amp; Performance History Privacy Program  Our AgencyThe Attorney General Organizational Chart Alphabetical Listing  PrioritiesPresidential Commission on Law Enforcement Protecting National Security Reducing Violent Crime Combating the Opioid Crisis More Topics  NewsVideos Photos Blogs Podcasts  ResourcesGuidance Documents Grants Forms Publications Information for Victims in Large Cases Justice Manual  CareersLegal Careers Veteran Recruitment Disability Hiring  Contact          You are hereHome » Careers         Share    Facebook   Twitter   LinkedIn   Digg   Reddit   Pinterest   Email          Diversity Policy      Department of Justice Diversity Management Policy Statement The Department of Justice employs more than 115,000 talented and diverse women and men to help meet its mission and goals.
 We are stronger, more credible, and more effective when our workforce includes highly qualified individuals with backgrounds, cultures and traditions that reflect our Nation’s rich diversity.
 We value diversity in our workforce and embrace the cultural and demographic dimensions of our country.
 We work diligently to attract and retain a workforce that represents the range of personal and professional backgrounds, and experiences and perspectives that arise from differences of culture and circumstances.
 To further promote diversity within the Department, we have developed and implemented a Department-wide Diversity Management Plan.
 This plan will foster effective diversity management across the Department, sustain progress over time, and ensure accountability for results.
 Through respect, understanding, and open communication between and among the rich tapestry of our employees, we will enhance critical aspects of our management practices, including policy development, decision making, and problem solving.
 The Justice organizational culture reflects our ongoing commitment to build and maintain a workplace environment that supports the efforts of all employees to effectively carry out the Department’s mission while ensuring that all employees are encouraged to excel as public servants.
 Updated July 11, 2014   Was this page helpful?
 Was this page helpful?
 Yes No  Thank you for your input.
 Contact the Webmaster to submit comments.
 Footer Menu Justice First Columnen ESPAÑOL Contact DOJ  Second ColumnArchive Accessibility Information Quality Privacy Policy Legal Policies &amp; Disclaimers Social Media  Third ColumnBudget &amp; Performance Office of the Inspector General No FEAR Act For Employees FOIA USA.gov     U.S. Department of Justice950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20530-0001    Stay Connected with Justice:  Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube      Email Updates
