This is to counter that.
 Among options being considered: $1,000 checks to almost all adult Americans, he said.
 Trump urged everyone to remain vigilant – stay at home as much as possible, limit gatherings to 10 people – for at least two more weeks.
 "We have to fight that invisible enemy, I guess unknown, but we are getting to know it quickly,"  Trump said.
 "One day we will be standing up here and be saying, 'Well, we won.
 '"Ohioans were not going to the polls Tuesday because of coronavirus concerns, but voting was taking place in Arizona, Florida and Illinois.
 And the up-and-down Dow, overwhelmingly down in recent days, rose more than 1,000 points – most of the gain occurring as Trump spoke.The roll call of massive isolation zones continued to grow, and the nation was slowly absorbing Trump's warning that restrictions could stretch into July or August.The U.S. death toll hit 114, and there are more than 6,400 confirmed cases, according to the Johns Hopkins University data dashboard.
 More cases are expected in the coming days as the government ramps up testing.
 Worldwide, more than 7,900 people have been killed by the virus.Our live blog on the coronavirus is being updated throughout the day.
 Refresh for the latest news.
 More headlines:COVID-19 testing and me: This is what to expect when you get swabbedWhen will school reopen?
 No date in sight.
 Kansas became the first state to cancel in person classes for the rest of the year.
 Also closed: Macy's, Apple; Marriott is putting workers on furlough.You're asked to shelter in place.
 What does that mean?Amazon prioritizing shipments for medical supplies, household staples.
 Here's where else you can buy toilet paper.
 'We don't want airlines going out of business': Trump says financial help on way.Need something to do?
 Peloton gives new users free workouts for 90 days – no bike needed.
 And we bring you 10 soapy, addictive TV dramas to binge on.Outside the US: These countries are doing the best and worst at fighting COVID-19.Ohio coronavirus patient describes her fight: 'Nothing I had ever quite experienced’Watch Video: Universal basic income: What Andrew Yang and Nixon have in commonDonald Trump's 'big, bold' stimulus –could checks soon be in the mail?Trump and Mnuchin say they are considering legislation that would include sending checks to most adult Americans to help them through the economic devastation of coronavirus disruptions.
 "We're looking at sending checks to Americans immediately," Mnuchin said at a news conference Tuesday.
 He said all measures being considered are "stuff that needs to be done now.
 This is no fault to American workers.
 For medical reasons, we are shutting down parts of the country."
 Trump said Mnuchin and lawmakers were working on a "big, bold" package.
 Mnuchin has been pressing for a $850 billion stimulus plan that includes relief for small businesses and the struggling airline industry.Nevada orders all casinos, other nonessential businesses, closedIn Nevada, Gov.
 Steve Sisolak ordered the statewide shutdown of all casinos and other nonessential businesses starting noon Wednesday.The state’s latest coronavirus containment effort will apply to all bars, gyms, beauty salons, barber shops, malls and restaurants that do not provide takeout and delivery services.
 Sisolak said in a Tuesday press conference that casinos and hotels will be given time to remove their guests before closing for 30 days.
 Retail malls and stores will also be mothballed for a month.
 Gaming machines are to be emptied and shut down by midnight.Some of Nevada’s largest casino companies — among them MGM Resorts, Wynn Resorts and Las Vegas Sands — voluntarily shuttered their properties earlier this week.
 But Tuesday's order effectively closes the remaining casino-related business and others that had not voluntarily closed.“My ultimate goal here is to come together as Nevadans to save lives,” he told reporters in Las Vegas.
 “That requires aggressive strategies aimed at limiting community spread.
 -- Reno Gazette JournalNew York City Mayor Bill de Blasio pondering shelter-in-place orderNew York Mayor Bill de Blasio said he’s weighing a citywide lockdown that allows residents to leave their homes only for basic needs such as food and medicines.
 "I think that all New Yorkers should be prepared right now for the possibility of a shelter-in-place order,” de Blasio said in a Tuesday news conference, adding that he expects to decide in the next 48 hours.However, Gov.
 Andrew Cuomo said it's up to the state to issue such an order, and he has no intention of doing so at the time.“There’s not going to be any quarantine,” Cuomo said on Spectrum News.
 "No one is going to lock you in your home.
 No one is going to tell you you can't leave the city.
 That's not going to happen.
 ''Kansas becomes first to cancel in-person teaching for school yearKansas Gov.
 Laura Kelly announced Tuesday that she was canceling in-person K-12 school and classes for the remainder of the school year, but that students would continue online learning.
 The decision is the first of its kind by any state in the nation.
 More than a dozen states have canceled traditional classes for two or three weeks, but none so far has stopped in-person teaching for the rest of the academic year.A task force of 40 educators was preparing to deliver guidelines for Kansas school districts by Wednesday night.
 Challenges include child care, delivery of meals, and alternative instruction for urban and rural school kids who lack devices or quality internet access.Lockdowns, restrictions sweep nationNew York would not be the first major city to impose a lockdown.On Tuesday, six counties in the San Francisco Bay Area -- including its namesake city -- began a three-week period when all residents are required to stay home except for essential activities.
 Those include visiting the grocery store or pharmacy, taking pets outside and exercising outdoors, though while maintaining a six-foot social distance.
 Other counties around the country, including some in Pennsylvania and Colorado, face similar restrictions.The Bay Area orders affect nearly 7 million residents and resulted in normally bustling streets and commercial areas looking largely empty, except those with supermarkets.
 Those shops, drug stores, banks and gas stations remain open, along with other essential government functions and businesses.
 Gyms and bars are closed, and restaurants can only serve food for takeout or delivery.California Gov.
 Gavin Newsom shut down restaurants for seated dining, allowing only for drive-thru, pick-up or other delivery options.Florida was the latest state to order all bars and nightclubs to closed, effective at 5 p.m. Tuesday.
 Gov.
 Ron DeSantis also recommended that all restaurants reduce capacity by 50% and distance tables to provide six feet of separation between groups of diners.Canned water only on Southwest Airlines flights, starting WednesdaySouthwest Airlines is suspending traditional drink service on its flights to limit interactions between flight attendants and passengers during the coronavirus crisis.
 The new policy takes effect Wednesday.Southwest, the nation's largest domestic carrier, will offer only unopened cans of water to passengers requesting a drink on most flights.
 The airline will still serve pretzels and, on longer flights, other packaged snacks.On short hops — dozens of Southwest flights under 250 miles, including Atlanta-Nashville, Dallas-Houston and Los Angeles-Las Vegas — the airline won't serve any drinks or snacks so the crew can focus on other aspects of in-flight hygiene.-- Dawn GilbertsonKevin Durant one of four Nets players to test positive for coronavirusFour Brooklyn Nets players have tested positive for the coronavirus, the team said in a news release Tuesday.
 The Nets did not name the players, but Durant is one of them, according to The Athletic.Durant told the Athletic he feels fine: "Everyone be careful, take care of yourself and quarantine.
 We're going to get through this.
 "Durant, a former league MVP and two-time Finals MVP, is sitting out this season while recovering from a torn Achilles tendon after playing the previous three seasons with the Golden State Warriors.Identities of the other three players are not yet known.The NBA suspended the season Wednesday after learning Utah Jazz center Rudy Gobert had tested positive in Oklahoma City.-- Jeff ZillgittStocks show gains after darkest dayU.S.
 stocks rose Tuesday after the Trump administration said it planned financial support for an airline industry devastated by a drop in travel caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
 The gains following the market's worst sell-off in more than three decades on Monday.
 Futures tied to the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 surged 5% overnight, triggering a trading halt but later gave back most of those gains.
 That came hours after both averages suffered their worst day since the “Black Monday” stock market crash of 1987.– Jessica MentonMayor in Pennsylvania will not enforce governor's order on business closuresA Pennsylvania mayor said Tuesday that the Borough of Chambersburg will not enforce Pennsylvania Gov.
 Tom Wolf's recommendation that all non-essential businesses close for two weeks.
 On Monday, Wolf ordered all restaurants and bars to close their dine-in facilities and "strongly (urged)" all non-essential businesses to shut down for at least 14 days in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
 "Chambersburg will not be enforcing Governor Wolf’s directives.
 My advice to all businesses is to evaluate the impact on the community and your employees, by your business remaining open during this time," Mayor Walter Bietsch said.The mayor said Wolf has "no authority to label private businesses as essential or non-essential" and he cannot mandate closures of private businesses, with the exception of restaurants and bars.— Amber South, Chambersburg Public OpinionStruggling airlines may get help from governmentAirlines battered by coronavirus guidelines that urge people to stay at home and avoid crowds may be getting some help from the federal government.
 "We don't want airlines going out of business,'' Trump said Tuesday's press briefing.
 Treasury Secretary Mnuchin said he has spoken with airline CEOs this week about what they need – projected to be billions of dollars in assistance.
 A few weeks ago carriers were touting their unprecedented financial strength to withstand the crisis.
 No longer.
 "This is worse than 9/11 for the airline industry,'' Mnuchin said, echoing comments from multiple airline executives.
 The industry, he said, has "almost ground to a halt.
 ''– Dawn GilbertsonPoll: Americans don't trust Donald Trump on coronavirusAmericans overwhelmingly don't believe hearing from President Donald Trump about the coronavirus, and their confidence in the federal government's response to it is declining sharply, according to a new NPR/PBS NewsHour/Marist poll.
 Just 46% of Americans now say the federal government is doing enough to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, down from 61% in February.And 37% of Americans now say they had a good amount or a great deal of trust in what they're hearing from the president, while 60% say they had not very much or no trust at all in what he's saying.
 The poll of 853 adults was conducted Friday and Saturday – before Trump's latest press conference.Massive job losses comingAs if fear of the highly contagious virus spreading throughout the world didn't produce enough anxiety, many workers also have their jobs to worry about.If the outbreak worsens, some 24% of employers plan to downsize, according to a survey of business owners conducted March 7-13 by investment bank UBS.U.S.
 companies have already announced more than 1,000 job cuts as a result of the outbreak, according to research by USA TODAY and the outplacement firm Challenger, Gray and Christmas.On Tuesday, hotel giant Marriott International set in motion plans to place tens of thousands of workers on unpaid furlough as room cancellations escalate.The American Hotel &amp; Lodging Association and the U.S. Travel Association estimated that 1 million hotel jobs, or about 45% of the industry's employment, "have either been eliminated or will be eliminated in the next few weeks.
 "Apple, Macy's, Bloomingdale's and Nordstrom are among the major retailers that have announced a temporary closure of all their U.S. stores.
 Their websites remain open for online shopping.-- Nathan BomeyHotels want $250 billion bailoutThe hotel industry is seeking a total of $250 billion in bailouts for owners, employees and suppliers, saying room bookings decimated by the coronavirus outbreak are resulting in closures and mass layoffs.Hotel executives said they detailed the devastation that the travel pullback is having on their industry in a meeting Tuesday with the Trump administration.The industry is hoping for $150 billion to allow hotel owners to continue to make their loan payments and to support employees who are being laid off.
 Another $100 billion would go to suppliers, from recreation providers to retailers.-- Chris WoodyardIllinois reports first coronavirus death amid surge in positive casesIllinois Gov.
 J.B. Pritzker, who has been aggressive in his attempts to curb the coronavirus epidemic, had a somber task on Tuesday.Pritzker announced the first death linked to the virus in his state, saying the victim was a Chicago woman in her 60 who had been in close contact with another coronavirus patient.
 “There are going to be moments in these next few weeks and months when this burden feels like it is more than we can bear, but we will bear it,'' Pritzker said.
 "We will get through it.
 ''The number of confirmed cases in Illinois rose by more than 50% since Monday, from 105 to 160 at last count.Among them are several technicians at Chicago’s Midway airport air traffic control tower, which prompted their union to ask the Federal Aviation Administration to close the facility until it could be disinfected.The FAA said the control tower was temporarily closed for work to "ensure a safe work environment'' but the airport continued operating at reduced capacity with backup facilities.Blood shortages: 2,700 Red Cross blood drives canceledThe American Red Cross said almost 2,700 blood drives have been canceled, resulting in around 86,000 fewer blood donations.There is not any evidence that the coronavirus can spread through blood transfusion, the organization said.
 The Red Cross said it has implemented new safety measures for donor and staff members including temperature checks, hand sanitizer, enhanced disinfecting processes and bed spacing to follow social distancing practices.
 "One of the most important things people can do right now during this public health emergency is to give blood,” Gail McGovern, president and CEO of the American Red Cross, said in a statement.
 "If you are healthy and feeling well, please make an appointment to donate as soon as possible.”Eduardo Nunes, vice president of quality, standards and accreditation at the American Association of Blood Banks, said most hospitals are down to a blood supply of two to three days.
 – Morgan Hines and Adrianna RodriguezVA medical workers quarantined for coronavirus infectionsA dozen workers at the Department of Veterans Affairs have tested positive for coronavirus, including four at medical center campuses in Seattle and Tacoma, Washington.
 The others include two in Nevada, one in New York, one in New Mexico and three in Palo Alto, California, where the first coronavirus patient treated in the VA medical system was admitted two weeks ago.
 What's unclear: Whether the infected employees are health care workers or staffers in other departments.
 VA spokeswoman Christina Mandreucci declined to say what their jobs are, citing privacy concerns.
 Those people are now quarantined at home, she said, “mitigating further risk of transmission to other patients and staff.” The number of VA patients testing positive for COVID-19 spiked from five cases last week to nearly 40 Tuesday.
 The VA reported its first death in Portland, Oregon, over the weekend.– Donovan SlackPGA Championship postponedThe PGA of America said its PGA Championship, scheduled for TPC Harding Park in San Francisco from May 11-17, has been postponed.
 The organization said it hopes to schedule the tournament at the same golf course "at a date this summer when it is once again safe and responsible to do so.”Students, parents face new reality: No school for awhileAt least 70% of America's schools have shut down, and a nationwide shutdown looks increasingly to be a case of when, rather than if.
 It's also becoming clear the nation's schools could be closed not just for a couple weeks, but for months or the entire rest of the school year.
 President Donald Trump on Monday called for limiting gatherings of people to no more than 10 for the next 15 days and suggested school-age students take classes from home.
 He also said the new normal could last deep into summer.
 School districts across the nation are scrambling to set up online learning where feasible.
 "Nobody is taking the bull by the horns and saying, 'This is what we're doing or should be doing,'" said Dan Domenech, head of the American Association of School Superintendents.
 "We need more guidance."
 – Erin RichardsWatch Video: What is a national emergency?Coronavirus news: More headlines, tips, informationHere are additional reads on coronavirus from USA TODAY:Viral tweet asks grocery customers to be mindful about WIC items.
 Here's why.
 And canned goods and non-perishables are selling out – here's where you can still buy them.Is there any "good news" related to the coronavirus?
 Perhaps, in reduced air pollution and carbon emissions – and in some places, lives saved.You might be asking how bad is this?
 Are we headed for a recession?
 Should I rebalance my portfolio?
 Also: What kind of stimulus should Congress pass to rescue the economy?
 Our experts Jessica Menton and Paul Davidson have a rundown of answers.Thousands of asylum seekers crammed in border towns near the Texas-Mexico border awaiting U.S. immigration hearings are at risk of dying from coronavirus.Get updates in your inbox.
 Sign up for our newsletter.In LA, concern for homeless, jail inmatesLos Angeles County Sheriff Alex Villanueva said officers are favoring citations over arrests, and the jail population has been trimmed by more than 600 because inmates are considered "vulnerable" to the virus.
 None of the more than 16,000 inmates have tested positive for the coronavirus, he said, but 35 have exhibited symptoms and been quarantined.
 Villanueva also said outreach to the county's estimated 59,000 homeless people has been stepped up: "Our biggest threat actually is the homeless population," he said.
 "You have the river beds, all the homeless encampments under the bridges, along skid row.
 Those are the biggest threat because of the sanitary conditions and people who are resistant to seeking aid when it is obvious that they should.
