By: Watson S.B.
 No.
 1454                   
 										            		
 			  A BILL TO BE ENTITLED      
 			  AN ACT      
 			 relating to the study and approval of lethal pesticides for feral      
 			 hog control.
 BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF TEXAS:     
 			        SECTION 1.
 Subchapter C, Chapter 76, Agriculture Code, is      
 			 amended by adding Section 76.048 to read as follows:     
 			        Sec.
 76.048.
 FERAL HOG TOXICANTS; STUDY REQUIRED.
 (a)      
 			 Notwithstanding any other law, the department may not register or      
 			 otherwise approve for use in this state a lethal pesticide,      
 			 including warfarin, for feral hog control unless a study under      
 			 Subsection (b) recommends the pesticide be registered for that use.
 (b) A state agency or institution of higher education may      
 			 perform a scientific study of potential feral hog control measures      
 			 in this state.
 The study must:     
 			              (1)  include controlled field trials;     
 			              (2)  examine the potential use of warfarin or other      
 			 lethal pesticides for feral hog control;     
 			              (3)  assess the economic consequences to hunters,      
 			 hunting and sporting industries, agricultural interests, and      
 			 property owners of the control measures included in the study; and     
 			              (4)  assess the environmental consequences of the      
 			 control measures included in the study.
 (c)  A state agency or institution of higher education shall      
 			 publish the findings, recommendations, and results of a study under      
 			 Subsection (b) in the Texas Register.
 (d)  A state agency or institution of higher education that      
 			 performs a study under Subsection (b) is subject to Chapters 551 and      
 			 552, Government Code, in connection with the study and any      
 			 meetings, hearings, or research conducted or public comments      
 			 received in connection with the study.
 SECTION 2.
 This Act takes effect immediately if it receives      
 			 a vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to each house, as      
 			 provided by Section 39, Article III, Texas Constitution.
 If this      
 			 Act does not receive the vote necessary for immediate effect, this      
 			 Act takes effect September 1, 2017.
