readSAN FRANCISCO—Chris Nowinski didn’t intend to talk to the press; he just dropped by to hear what the National Football League had to say these days about brain injuries, about concussions, about the neurological disease known as CTE.
 Nowinski is the co-founder and executive director of the Concussion Legacy Foundation, the leading concussion advocacy organization in America.
 He just wanted to listen.
 He was astonished.“I sort of feel like I’m re-living big tobacco in real time,” said Nowinski, after watching an NFL-affiliated doctor refuse to speak about the connection between football and CTE, or chronic traumatic encephalopathy.
 The NFL had just held its annual health and safety press conference.
 Reported concussions were up 58 per cent this season, but the event was mostly devoted to the winners of the technological innovation contest the NFL set up with GE.
 Winners included makers of a turf underpad, safer helmets — ah, that old chestnut — and brainwave or blood scans to detect concussions.And then Dr. Mitch Berger, a member of the NFL’s Head, Neck &amp; Spine Committee, resolutely refused to admit there was a link between CTE and football.
 Boston University had found CTE in 90 of 94 examined brains of NFL players; this week, legendary quarterbacks Kenny Stabler and Earl Morrall were added to the list.
 I asked Dr. Berger, a professor and the chairman of the University of California, San Francisco’s Neurological Surgery Department, where he was on a link between football and CTE.“There’s no question that there are degenerative disorders of the brain that occur after a car accident, we can see it after gunshot wounds to the brain,” said Dr. Berger.
 “And the interesting thing about the literature as it’s evolved over the years is you can see tau deposits in the brain in individuals who have never had a traumatic brain injury .
 .
 .
 we’re obviously very concerned about this.
 So if we’re going to find a link in football, we also have to find a link in the military population, in the civilian population, to put this whole story together.”Asked again about football, Dr. Berger again obfuscated.
 “There’s no question that you can find degenerative changes that are indicative of CTE in individuals who have played football .
 .
 .
 (but) I think tau is found in brains that have traumatic injuries.
 Whether it’s from football, whether it’s from car accidents, gunshot wounds, domestic violence, remains to be seen.”But, football.“Well, again, we’ve seen evidence anecdotally of a number of players who have come to autopsy who have had the diagnosis made.
 We’ve also seen a number of players who have done very well.
 “What he was saying, that’s 10 years ago talk.
 I can’t believe Dr. Berger wasn’t up to speed on the research, and that’s why it’s so intentionally misleading.”Nowinski cited the league’s recent withdrawal of a $16 million (U.S.) grant as part of a $30 million pledge to fund brain studies after it went to Dr. Robert Stern of Boston University, who has done extensive research on the brains of NFL players, and has criticized the league.
 The National Institutes of Health stepped forward to replace the lost funding.“It was frankly a slap in the face to every family suffering from CTE right now,” said Nowinski, with some agitation in his voice.
 “That study was delayed by at least nine months by the games the NFL was trying to play .
 .
 .
 I thought the (NFL’s good-faith move) was the $30 million to NIH.
 But I was proven wrong.
 They lied when they said it was no-strings attached, they lied when they said they would fund the BU study.
 And the lies have finally convinced me that only lies are going to follow.“Personally, I’m happy that it’s not going to be NFL money funding this study.
 But for me, personally, that was kind of the last straw in the attempt to claim there’s a good-faith effort from the NFL.”Nowinski ceded that pending class-action settlement litigation may factor into a refusal to link CTE and football.
 He also noted that the science indicates it’s the volume of brain trauma that leads to CTE, and thinks the next big step should be limiting youth football until high school age, so as to limit the exposure to repetitive brain trauma.
 “I am a firm believer that no one should be playing tackle football before high school,” Nowinski said.
 “One of the problems we have in this country on this debate is the NFL is strongly funding and underwriting youth football in this country, through USA Football, through Heads Up football, through the mom marketing programs, and commissioner Goodell going and teaching tackling to mothers .
 .
 .
 He kept talking.
 SHARE:Report an errorJournalistic StandardsAbout The StarMore from The Star &amp; PartnersMore SportsTop StoriesLOCAL GUIDEMORE BUSINESSVIEW ADSCopyright owned or licensed by Toronto Star Newspapers Limited.
 All  rights reserved.
 Republication or distribution of this content is  expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Toronto  Star Newspapers Limited and/or its licensors.
