Search            Subscribe  Esquire Select Give a Gift   Entertainment  TV Movies Books Music Best of 2020   Style  Fashion Grooming Accessories Big Black Book   Food  Restaurants Recipes   Drinks  Bars Cocktail Recipes   Sports Lifestyle  Cars &amp; Tech Fitness &amp; Health Money &amp; Career   News &amp; Politics  Charles P. Pierce   Archive Newsletter Follow  facebook twitter google+ pinterest tumblr instagram youtube   Win United States  US UK España Italia Nederland Japan     Do Not Sell My Info     				Privacy Notice 			  				Terms of Use 			           Editions: US UK España Italia Nederland Japan                   					Subscribe 				   Sign In    My Account Sign Out                     Type keyword(s) to search               				Today's Top Stories 			   			1 		  Join Esquire Select          			2 		  This Is Joe Biden When No One Is Watching          			3 		  How to Survive the Next Few Weeks With Grace          			4 		  The Best Netflix Original Shows of 2020          			5 		  A Good Mohair Sweater Is an Essential This Fall            		Every product was carefully curated by an Esquire editor.
 We may earn a commission from these links.
 Donald Trump Longs for the Good Old Days When He Could Punch Protesters in the Face "You know what they used to do to guys like that when they were in a place like this?
 They'd be carried out on a stretcher, folks."
 By 					Jack Holmes     											Feb 23, 2016 					                            Donald Trump is fresh off a big win in the South Carolina primary, and he's the heavy favorite in today's Nevada caucuses.
 So, naturally, it's time to fight somebody.
 Apparently, the person in the above video was the third protester to disrupt his pre-caucus rally in Las Vegas last night, and Trump got fed up.
 In today's America, he lamented, violent retribution for political dissent has been outlawed by the PC police.
 "I love the old days, you know?
 You know what I hate?
 There's a guy totally disruptive, throwing punches.
 We're not allowed to punch back anymore.
 I love the old days.
 You know what they used to do to guys like that when they were in a place like this?
 They'd be carried out on a stretcher, folks."
 And later: "The guards are very gentle with him.
 He's walking out like big high-fives, he's smiling, laughing.
 I'd like to punch him in the face."
 The coded language here is daunting.
 I wonder who the "guys like that" are, and why they don't belong "in a place like this"?
 The protester's identity is not yet clear, nor do we know whether or not they were actually throwing punches.
 But this is not the first time Trump has responded to dissenting voices at his rallies by encouraging violence.
 In November, a Black Lives Matter protester was shoved to the ground at a Trump rally in Birmingham, Alabama, then punched and kicked repeatedly by Trump supporters.
 The next day, Trump was asked how he felt about his fans' response on his favorite show, Fox &amp; Friends.
 "Maybe he should have been roughed up, because it was absolutely disgusting what he was doing," Trump said, adding: "This was not handled the way Bernie Sanders handled his problem, I will tell you."
 Violence among Trump supporters and his security staff toward protesters—particularly immigration demonstrators—is basically routine.
 At a Florida rally, Trump explained his attitude: "See the first group, I was nice.
 Oh, take your time," Trump said of the protesters.
 "The second group, I was pretty nice.
 The third group, I'll be a little more violent.
 And the fourth group, I'll say get the hell out of here!"
 While political violence is as old as America—will Trump be the second man to beat someone with a cane on the Senate floor?—crowd violence to silence dissent is also, you know, a hallmark of fascist movements.
 Jack Holmes  Politics Editor Jack Holmes is the Politics Editor at Esquire, where he writes daily and edits the Politics Blog with Charles P Pierce.
 This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses.
 You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io      This commenting section is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page.
 You may be able to find more information on their web site.
 Period.
 This Is What All Future Elections Will Look Like         Here's a Lump of Coal from President-Elect Trump            Your Guide to the 2016 Presidential Election   News   Protesters, Nazi Slogans, and Threats of Anti-Black Violence: Just Another Donald Trump Rally   Robert De Niro Flip-Flops on Face-Punching Trump   Seemingly Grown Man Donald Trump Insults Carly Fiorina's Face   A Message to Those Protesting at Trump Rallies   Donald Trump Subsists on a Diet of Chaos.
 Starve Him.
 ©2020 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
