Here are links to CDC data:CDC national and state-by-state numbers for 2020 (since Feb 1) here: https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nvss/vsrr/covid19/index.htmCDC mortality numbers from 1999-2018 can be searched by month, state, and cause here: https://wonder.cdc.gov/ucd-icd10.htmlHere is what the article states about national and regional numbers:“Pneumonia kills about 50,000 people each year in the U.S., according to the CDC.This year, at least 89,555 deaths have been attributed nationwide to pneumonia between February and mid-May.It tends to follow a typical flu season, coming on in December and peaking in January and February before declining in March to April.But preliminary CDC data from this year show pneumonia deaths steadily climbed in March to peak in April, mirroring the trend line for deaths linked to the coronavirus outbreak.Surrounding states are also seeing death counts several times greater than normal:Indiana: 1,832 COVID-19 deaths; 2,149 pneumonia deaths (five-year average: 384)Illinois: 4,856 COVID-19 deaths; 3,986 pneumonia deaths (five-year average: 782)Tennessee: 336 COVID-19 deaths; 1,704 pneumonia deaths (five-year average: 611)Ohio: 1,969 COVID-19 deaths; 2,327 pneumonia deaths (five-year average: 820)Virginia: 1,208 COVID-19 deaths; 1,394 pneumonia deaths (five-year average: 451)West Virginia: 72 COVID-19 deaths; 438 pneumonia deaths (five-year average: 117)”496ReplyshareReportSavelevel 25 months ago · edited 5 months agoI think it's much more clear to just look at total excess deaths:https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nvss/vsrr/covid19/excess_deaths.htmUnder Dashboard select "Number of Excess Deaths" and then "All causes, excluding Covid-19".Across the US total excess deaths is 22000-43000.
 Let's say 30k.
 That means 30k more people are dying than we'd expect for this time period.
 If we assume all of those are unreported Covid cases (big assumption) then we're only reporting ~75% of total Covid cases deaths.There's this argument being pushed on social media that we're overreporting cases deaths and it's not that bad.
 That's clearly not borne out by the data.
 We're probably under-reporting, and we may be underreporting by a lot338ReplyshareReportSaveContinue this thread level 25 months agoSo we have 150% of the annual deaths in a 3 month period, yeah that's pretty damning evidence134ReplyshareReportSaveContinue this thread level 25 months agoSaving this comment to show my mother4ReplyshareReportSavelevel 25 months agoWhat are new yorks numbers like with pneumonia deaths compared to average?4ReplyshareReportSaveContinue this thread level 25 months agoHoly shit.2ReplyshareReportSavelevel 25 months agoAre SD numbers in the article?
 They passed from organ complications that were caused by the virus.146ReplyshareReportSaveContinue this thread level 25 months agoIf you define death as the heart stopping and not re-starting, all deaths are heart failure.Scene: bullet riddled corpse, face unrecognizable from three gunshots to the forehead, nose, and right cheek.
 Cop to coroner, "cause of death?
 ""Heart failure, after the bullet perforated both the left Ventricle and right Atrium it stopped beating.
 It may have stopped a moment earlier when this one bullet bounced off the clavicle and liquified the victim's Medulla.
 "111ReplyshareReportSaveContinue this thread level 25 months agocreates a fake sense of security for people who may get harmed.That's the point.
 Open for the impatient people and satisfy Trump's idiotic whims.115ReplyshareReportSaveContinue this thread View Entire Discussion (2.5k Comments)More posts from the Coronavirus communityContinue browsing in r/Coronavirusr/CoronavirusIn December 2019, a novel coronavirus strain (SARS-CoV-2) emerged in the city of Wuhan, China.
 This subreddit seeks to monitor the spread of the disease COVID-19, declared a pandemic by the WHO.
 Please be civil and empathetic.
 This subreddit is for high-quality posts and discussion.2.3mMembers25.9kOnlineCreated May 3, 2013JoinhelpReddit AppReddit coinsReddit premiumReddit giftsaboutcareerspressadvertiseblogTermsContent policyPrivacy policyMod policyReddit Inc © 2020.
 By using our Services or clicking I agree, you agree to our use of cookies.
 Let's say 30k.
 That means 30k more people are dying than we'd expect for this time period.
 If we assume all of those are unreported Covid cases (big assumption) then we're only reporting ~75% of total Covid cases deaths.
 That's clearly not borne out by the data.
 The state with the least restrictions and a corrupt Governor deserves more scrutiny.
 That's insane.
 They passed from organ complications that were caused by the virus.
 Open for the impatient people and satisfy Trump's idiotic whims.
 Then we can all really know the prevalence.
 I also think that cases are under-reported as well.
 Don’t they say that like 35% have no symptoms?
 Plus some people were sick as far back as December and January with what they thought was a cold or flu or whatever.
 If they don’t get an antibody test then who knows what it was.
 I think my BIL got one today but it was $110 so you can see that some people won’t bother.
 My point I guess is that we can’t really know exact mortality or infection rates.
 It’s so scary.
 Someone found it suspicious on another sub that a man who fell, hit his head, then died in the hospital had COVID listed as a contributing factor or indirect cause of his death.
 With no other info than I shared just now, other than his age, this person assumed the hospital and ME were lying and that it was a \"stretch\" to \"assume\" that COVID actually contributed to his death.
 People told this person that the man could have fallen from being lightheaded from pneumonia, or caught COVID in the hospital if he went there after his fall, etc., and that MEs list contributing causes of death all the time, this is nothing new, and that maybe experts know what they're doing, but this person wasn't having it.
 Hopefully Americans are wise enough to see through this thinly veiled ride.
 Hanlon's razor is giving far to much credit to these fucks, and people need to stop calling them stupid.
 they are malicious and this is intentional.
 It is deliberate.
 They are manipulating the data in order to create a fake sense of security, so people will get back to work.
 That is their goal.
 They don't care if people get harmed.
 We are just \"human capital\", and there are plenty of people looking for jobs to replace us if we die.
 These are obviously reasons hospitals financially aren’t doing great in some areas.
 Well, they’re using the “Chinese method” of keeping the death count low.
 Even though, last I saw, most experts agree the official death toll is being undercounted.
 Just like the official number of cases.
 The rich get to pretend that all is fine and move on.
 There's also the opposite type of error, where someone has covid and legitimately dies of a heart attack.
 Or inbetween cases, like if someone is about to die from cancer and then contracts covid.
 Is covid the cause of death?
 It certainly didn't help, but neither did the cancer.
 We can deal with the fire after?
 It's irresponsible to believe a conspiracy is at play, as hospitals and doctors followed the CDC's guidelines, on how to report deaths.
 They want people to feel a false sense of security so that people go back to work and spend money doing the things they use to do.
 They don’t care if you get sick.
 They don’t care if your parents or children get sick.
 They don’t care about delaying processes.
 They don’t care about anything but their own financial gains and for the people in government they only exist to empower the rich.
 It infects and destroys cells by using the ACE2 enzyme which is found in the lungs, heart, and kidneys.
 The uptick in heart issues is no coincidence.
 It's a bold strategy Cotton, considering it didn't kill the virus in SE Asia.
 Them wearing a mask, social distancing, testing and tracing did.
 But a case could be made by just looking at the numbers that the weather played a role.
 Folks, we have a heart disease problem in kentucky.
 Look up pneumonia for mor than one year.
 Heart Disease is a much larger issue in Kentucky than the virus is.
 Home of the hanging chad.
 We need to get the economy working again!
 This message brought to you by obscure gun lobbies.
 I’m currently in Australia and a lot of things are opening up June 1st.
 We’ve had 348 cases total for the month of May with 10 deaths for the whole country.
 It’s insane to me that the US states are looking at opening when collectively they’ve has 611,203 cases and 35,949 deaths in May.
 Australia may have a second wave, America certainly will.
 I’m asking seriously.
 I think this is related to the testing backup/fiasco.
 That’s messed up.
 Water in the lung, lung desease, oxygen deficiency, asfixia, suffocation, asphyxiation, immuno erotic asphyxiation, immuno over response to infection, \"dropped like a fly\", \"I don't know man, I just work here\" etc.
 You do that, and it will just drive people who want heart failure bad enough underground.
 They will find a way.
 It's actually pretty financially smart on their part.
 Of course they probably thought the numbers would be lower and less obvious.
 One hopes knowing your reported count is a third of the actual total might get someone’s attention.
 The only thing I can think of is that people that should have gone to the hospitals for non-COVID related things simply weren't taking their chances because of the fear, but I have to imagine that being the minority of these excess deaths.
 It’s not like a regular virus.
 It’s usually the result of foreign material (usually water, possibly mucus) being in the lungs and causing an infection.
 Those with weakened respiratory systems who are unable to expel that foreign material are at high risk.
 Those on ventilators as well as opioid and alcohol abusers are also at especially high risk.
 In my country we put a lockdown with 23 confirmed cases, on the third day after the first case was confirmed.
 As a result, not only do we have a pretty okay case rate and death rate, but deaths are actually down from years past.
 Not only pneumonia deaths.
 ALL deaths.
 Also, you could have people who get pneumonia because they didn't seek care that would have prevented it.
 People can get pneumonia due to poor lung hygiene (formerly called lung toilet), complications of previous lung diseases and environmental exposures.
 The lockdown could potentially contribute to all 3 of those which would make the numbers go up.
 Also, there are several different types of pneumonia with some only being contagious in ideal circumstances.
 This has increased the occurrence of complications of some diseases.
 Some of these can contribute to developing pneumonia which could be the actual cause of death despite being triggered by the other disease.
 Turns out there is not a high overlap between people who comply with publoc health laws and people who recklessly speed through the hills and country roads.
 Yeah fucking right.
 Florida and Arizona were the most egregious but bad stuff is happening in the US.
 That’s only something dirty foreigners do.
 Did anyone say that?
 I wonder if he actually had COVID.
 My aunt had breathing issues during the time following his death but she's okay for now.
 Everyone else is healthy.
 My family is currently suing for how my great grandmother was treated when COVID start to hit our state.
 If a person has mild Covid19 symptoms but dies from a heart attack, how do you categorize it?
 If someone is in late stages of lung cancer and is in Hospice and catches Covid19, how would their death be classified?
 In January, my grandma, who lives in assisted living, was taken to the ER.
 She had been suffering a dry cough for weeks, but almost overnight it was like she became unable to breathe.
 She couldn't speak more than two words at once without a breath.
 She went into pulmonary ICU, and all visitors had to wear PPE.
 They gave her oxygen, but I don't remember if she was entubated.
 My mom says the attending doctor told her that they didn't know exactly what it was, but they were treating it like pneumonia, and she was responding.
 Another resident of her assisted living facility died around that time as well.
 And honestly, I was sick at Thanksgiving and Christmas (she was there for both of those) with a respiratory ailment, which I caught from a friend who was visiting from Vancouver, which has a very high travel rate to and from China.
 It was a dry cough that lasted for about six weeks, and an initial fever and headaches.
 I know the CDC is not saying it was circulating that early, and if I hadn't been visited by my friend, I would agree I probably didn't have it.
 But it does make me wonder; according to him, Vancouver has had it pretty surprisingly easy, and I've got to wonder if it's because they hit their peak before we even knew COVID was a thing.
 I do think I read that Chinese authorities were aware of this back in November, weren't they?
 The state is obviously underreporting COVID-19 deaths by a factor of 2 or 3.
 If an ambulance showed up at your house and you were already deceased they would label this cardiac failure.
 They had a 500% increase of this over a average week.
 So yes many ways we have seen significant underreporting.
 Of course no government is excited about growing numbers so they are all using these simple ways of underreporting.
 This evidence here seems to suggest exactly the opposite.
 we can post about China or Sweden or failures of leadership abroad, but you mentioned a leader in the US.
 Our governor has been doing a pretty good job actually with being transparent about dangers, risks, and necessity for quarantines.
 In that regard I’d think it’s better to attribute to incompetence (on the data capture part) rather than to malice.
 Right wing, left wing, it doesn’t matter.
 They either have motivations to lie and make things look worse.
 Or they are motivated to make things look like they aren’t as bad as they are.
 Neither is the type you would lend money to.
 Do they have data for excess deaths for the whole country or is it just surrounding states?!?!?
 I wasn't sure then, but I'm sure now the problem isn't over-reporting, it's under-reporting.
 Nothing to see here!
 Please!
 It was 30k+ deaths ago and doesn't seem to have been updated but this is before some significant surges.
 Covid was not even discussed or something even thought to test her for.
 We now are curious if she might have had it but think maybe not since others didn’t get sick.
 I got sick a couple weeks after with what I thought was strep but was negative and my 84 year old grandpa got a bad cold after but I still think it would’ve spread among us at her funeral, etc.
 My mom died in April from a heart attack while in rehab/recovery from severe pneumonia.
 They tested her multiple times thinking it might be Covid (this was when we only had a token number of cases in the state).
 She tested positive for \"Influenza A\".
 She went from fine and probably infected by a home health aide on Friday to needing hospitalization on that Monday.
 By Thursday her blood oxygen was dropping into the 80's and she was at 100% supplemental and they were talking about a ventilator.
 This was in early March.
 From there she gradually got better.
 Eventually she got well enough to be discharged but was in bad shape physically and needed rehab.
 She had the heart attack while there, in early April, most likely from the strain of overcoming the illness and maybe the steroids they gave her to try to help her lungs.
 She had basically every comorbidity, overweight, diabetes, high blood pressure, 70 years old ect.
 Just a random anecdote but she hadn't been to the hospital or got severely ill ever, despite the other problems.
 That influenza hit like a truck.
 I don't know if it's a particularly vicious strain this year, all her problems just built to that point, or she did have Coronavirus and they just couldn't diagnosis it or lied about it for whatever reason.
 I never ended up getting sick despite living with her and visiting her for the first week while it was still allowed in the state to visit hospitals.
 H1N1 is influenza A type.
 Underreporting by reclassifying as pneumonia is one way to do it, but I wouldn’t be surprised if outright lies about total death numbers are in our future.
 See for example China, where a spike in the number of funeral urns being sold is a hint at the actual death count.
 The Feb-Mar window of this in the US was still very unsure of what was and what wasn't covid so I can definitely see a ton of doctors unintentionally mischaracterizing it then.
 No mass testing or contact tracing, pushing untested and harmful drugs and products from the podium, Out right lying about deaths and infection rate, Caught mutipule lies on data presented tp the public.
 Truth is 100k dead is the extreame low end and you the ppl have no idea what the truth is period just like they want it.
 Better ground for a misinformation campaign within the chaos.
 people not dying of things like traffic accidents and other communicable diseases that would have occurred if people hadn't been staying at home much more over the past several months?
 My father's death certificate says Parkinson's but he saw a neurologist a few months before he died who was pretty sure it was Progressive Supranuclear Palsy.
 With that new information we were able to make more sense of his condition but his primary care doctor wasn't notified of this, and was thusly forced to list the cause of death as what he had originally diagnosed - even though it was incorrect.
 The moment this became a political battle and not scientific the trust was broken.
 Official COVID death toll is only 440.
 They include cases where it's very likely the person died from the virus, but hasn't been confirmed due to not testing, the test failing or the test not being administered at the right moment.
 Don't be mistaken, this virus is a killer for the old.
 If you are young please take all precautions, even if you don't get sick yourself you can kill the elderly without knowing.
 My city only had two fatalities from it last I checked so if they were wanting to get our numbers up then I’d think more people in my city of over 130k have died to do so.
 It will be brushed under the rug in states that don't want to accept the reality of the pandemic.
 We have seen it before.
 Issues only have so much lasting power in America.
 Things fade, and people suffer.
 Just think about the fact that there is STILL lead in the water in Flint.
 Or how America has approached climate change.
 Or the obesity problem.
 Or the overcrowded prisons.
 I could go on and on.
 Serious things that demand the attention of the whole civilization do not get the attention they ever deserve in America.
 Covid will just be apart of the American experience for years, and the brightest minds will be forced to waste their time trying to get people to listen.
 It's already happening and it's really sad.
 I'm almost certain now that these people had coronavirus because they all presented with similar signs and symptoms.
 COVID has been here and prevalent for a lot longer than we initially knew.
 America making zero progress.
 I thought we agreed those guys were assholes?
 Normal flu season ended after just between 2 and 3 weeks.
 Diarrhea cases are cut in half.
 Different children's diseases are significantly reduced.
 And mountains of corpses.
 One big reason is that we did the same thing during the Spanish Flu.
 In order to 'keep morale up' we fudged the numbers greatly.
 Ther very same thing we are blaming China for.
 100 years later, we did/do the same thing.
 We haven't learned jack squat in 100 years as COVID-19 almost directly parallels the Spanish Flu in infection rates, transmission, and how we have handled it.
 Their idiocy enjoys a long lineage.
 The CDC also has numbers for COVID+ Pneumonia + Influenza.
 Stuff like this just makes it less likely that sensible people go out.
 I sure as shit am not going to a restaurant any time soon.
 This is all being covered up on such a large scale.
 What do we do?
 We've destroyed our international ties so no one is coming to help us.
 The economy and numbers are worth our lives.
 What do we do?
 Typically, we use some estimation method for influenza.
 We never sit there and try to count every single influenza death.
 Those who want to open hope to point to a low death toll, while its the opposite for those who want to keep things shut down.
 Telling me I need to subscribe.
 I’m in KY so would love to read.
 Compare that to past years, same week of the year.
 I did hear the flu was rare/worse this year.
 Dont think 5 times worse though.
 They hear ambulance sirens, they watch local news, they get text messages, they have grandparents, and friends of grandparents in nursing homes, and that news spreads viral.
 Through communities at the speed of light.
 They know this.
 They are expendable.
 That's just reality.
 And they seem OK with it.
 They have the data.
 Their move.
 All-cause mortality data will be the only thing to show the true impacts.
 For example the UK has had over 60000 more deaths than normal so far.
 Its difficult talking to people these days.
 Everyone around you is stupid and you got this mess of a situation all figured out lol.
 I am also uncertain if this is there final estimate number for each year as opposed to the real time reported deaths.
 That is the only logical reason I can explain the difference other than whoever wrote the news article messed up their numbers.
 they're hiding the numbers, how are GOP fanatics going to say China is faking their numbers when they're doing the same?
 Or at home deaths that were listed as pneumonia?
 We want to encourage a respectful discussion.
 Political discussions can easily come to dominate online discussions.
 Therefore we remove political posts and comments and lock comments on borderline posts.
 This subreddit seeks to monitor the spread of the disease COVID-19, declared a pandemic by the WHO.
 Please be civil and empathetic.
 This subreddit is for high-quality posts and discussion.
 We want to encourage a respectful discussion.
 We want to encourage a respectful discussion.
 Editorialization via title editing of any kind is likely to be removed.
 Reposts also cover new posts containing only information that has already been posted.
 \n\nThere are many places online to discuss conspiracies and speculate, we ask you not to do so here.
 \u003C/p\u003E\n\n\u003Cp\u003EThere are many places online to discuss conspiracies and speculate, we ask you not to do so here.
 ** Spamming the same or very similar posts or comments, as well as self-promotion of any kind will likely lead to a ban.
 Scams will be reported to authorities.
 Scams will be reported to authorities.
 ** We require that posts maintain a certain level of relevance to the subreddit topic and posts that do not meet that may be removed.
 This subreddit seeks to monitor the spread of the disease COVID-19, declared a pandemic by the WHO.
 Please be civil and empathetic.
 This subreddit is for high-quality posts and discussion.
