Generic Viagra   								Sildenafil products expert 							                       Home Blog Contact Us          VeriMed Health Link   Health Link is the connection between you and your personal health record.
 Health Link utilizes a tiny, passive microchip (the nation’s first and only microchip cleared for patient identification by the U.S. Food &amp; Drug Administration) and a secure, private online database that links you to your personal health record.
 Your Health Link is always with you and cannot be lost or stolen.
 It provides emergency room doctors and nurses with your vital medical and emergency contact information, allowing them to treat you rapidly, accurately and safely during an emergency.
 The Health Link microchip What you need to know about Health Link:  Health Link allows ER doctors and nurses immediate access to your personal health record and emergency contact information during an emergency.
 ER doctors and nurses use Health Link as a tool to help treat you rapidly, accurately and safely based on your current medical information.
 Your personal medical and emergency contact information is easily updated through Health Link’s secure, online database.
 HealthLinkInfo.com About the size of a grain of rice, the microchip is inserted just under the skin and contains only a unique, 16-digit identifier.
 The microchip itself does not contain any other data other than this unique electronic ID, nor does it contain any Global Positioning System (GPS) tracking capabilities.
 And unlike conventional forms of identification, the Health Link cannot be lost, stolen, misplaced, or counterfeited.
 It is safe, secure, reversible, and always with you.
 Site Disclaimer: The information contained on this page is intended for educational purposes only.
 Since there are materials related to healthcare and healthcare products, it is logical for it to contain names of companies and products; those are used for reference and general awareness and are owned by their respective copyright owners.
 Our website is not associated with any of the entities or brand names mentioned on this page.
 None of the information contained here is intended as direct instructions to be followed by patients; prescription medications are subject to appointment by a board-certified healthcare practitioner.
 Failure to follow your doctor’s recommendations may result in irreversible damage to your health.
 User discretion is required.
 Copyright © 2005-2020.
 Verichip Corp. All Rights Reserved.
