Skip to Main Content             POLITICO              Magazine  The Agenda  Pro   Search    Search                SECTIONS   Congress  White House  Magazine  The Agenda  Video  Podcasts     2020 Elections   News  All Election Results  Presidential Results  Senate Results  House Results  Governor Results  Key Ballot Measures  Tracking Threats to the Election     NEWSLETTERS   Playbook  Playbook PM  POLITICO Nightly  Transition Playbook  Huddle  All Newsletters    SERIES   The Fifty  The Vaccine Race  What Works  Women Rule     POLITICO LIVE   Live Home  Upcoming Events  Previous Events  About POLITICO Live    COLUMNS &amp; CARTOONS   Rich Lowry  Jack Shafer  Matt Wuerker  Cartoon Carousel     POLICY   Agriculture  Cannabis  Cybersecurity  Defense  Education  eHealth  Employment &amp; Immigration  Energy &amp; Environment  Finance &amp; Tax  Health Care  Space  Sustainability  Technology  Trade  Transportation     EDITIONS   California  Canada  Europe  Florida  New Jersey  New York  Pro     Follow us   Twitter  Instagram  Facebook      My Account  Log InLog Out                           coronavirus  Republicans to Trump: Wear a mask A POLITICO/Morning Consult poll shows voters overwhelmingly think he should cover his face in public — including nearly three in five Republicans.
 President Donald Trump.
 But according to a new survey, even most Republicans think Trump and Vice President Mike Pence should sport face coverings when traveling in public.
 It’s a rare point of bipartisan consensus during a public health crisis that’s become deeply politicized.
 Whether encouraging a rapid economic reopening or excoriating China for mishandling the initial outbreak, GOP lawmakers and leading party figures have largely fallen in line with the administration’s coronavirus messaging as Trump seeks to engineer a financial recovery and salvage his reelection campaign.
 On the issue of masks, however, more than 70 percent of respondents in a POLITICO/Morning Consult poll to be published Wednesday say that when Trump and Pence travel, they should wear face coverings in public places.
 Concurring with that position are 82 percent of Democrats, 70 percent of independents and 58 percent of Republicans.
 “When it comes to President Trump and Vice President Pence, there is a rare, bipartisan consensus among voters that they should be wearing masks when in public.
 This issue is sure to remain center-stage as the White House deals with its own outbreak of COVID-19,” said Tyler Sinclair, vice president at Morning Consult.
 The survey’s results come as masks have morphed into a strange political totem, taking on new ideological meaning for Americans divided over the virtue of personal sacrifice versus the value of individual liberty.
 The White House was initially reluctant to endorse the wearing of masks as the disease began to spread across the U.S., with Surgeon General Jerome Adams especially skeptical of their effectiveness.
 But in late March, Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, revealed the White House coronavirus task force was seriously considering mask-wearing guidance, and by early April, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention began encouraging the use of cloth masks when outside the home.
 CORONAVIRUS: WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW President Donald Trump and Melania Trump have tested positive for Covid-19.
 Confirmed U.S. Cases: 7,292,422 | U.S.
 Deaths: 208,068  How coronavirus will change the world permanently Coronavirus cases, tracked state by state Are you a health care worker?
 Tell us what you're seeing    TOP DEVELOPMENTS  Here's what we know — and don't — about Trump's Covid case.
 Joe Biden tested negative for Covid-19.
 Trump's diagnosis could spell disaster for his campaign.
 The Trump team is on guard against foreign adversaries who could exploit the president's illness.
 “Somehow, sitting in the Oval Office behind that beautiful Resolute Desk — the great Resolute Desk — I think wearing a face mask as I greet presidents, prime ministers, dictators, kings, queens, I don’t know.
 It somehow — I don’t see it for myself,” he said.
 But as the outbreak worsened and public pressure to wear masks mounted, Pence found himself embroiled in controversy in late April during a tour of the Mayo Clinic.
 The vice president had rejected the famed hospital’s policy that all visitors cover their faces, and conceded days later that “I should have worn a mask.” Trump was also criticized last week when he visited a Honeywell factory in Phoenix manufacturing N95 face masks for health care workers but did not wear a mask during his tour.
 The personal protective measures of White House officials have come under even greater scrutiny in recent days since one of Trump’s valets and Katie Miller, Pence’s press secretary and the wife of White House adviser Stephen Miller, tested positive for the coronavirus — heightening the risk of infection within the president’s inner circle.
 POLITICO Dispatch: May 13 Unlike most industries, cannabis sales have been booming during the coronavirus pandemic.
 And for the states where the drug is legal, that means more tax revenue during a financial crisis.
 On Monday, the White House Management Office issued a memo requiring West Wing staffers to wear masks or other face coverings at all times in the building, except at their own desks.
 And at a Rose Garden briefing on testing later that afternoon, every seated White House staffer could be seen wearing a mask — including the president’s senior adviser and son-in-law, Jared Kushner.
 The POLITICO/Morning Consult poll was conducted May 8-10, surveying a national sample of 1,994 registered voters.
 The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 2 percentage points.
