Contribute    Subscribe   Log In    Try STAT+ Today My Account      My Account   Billing   Log Out           Try STAT+ Today My Account    Search Back     Topics   Coronavirus   Health   Pharma   Biotech   Politics &amp; Policy   Health Tech   In The Lab   Business   Artificial Intelligence   Health Disparities   Prescription Politics     Opinion   First Opinion   The Pharmalot View   Adam's Take   Matt's Take     Team   Biotech &amp; Pharma   Jonathan Chan   Adam Feuerstein   Damian Garde   Matthew Herper   Meghana Keshavan   Kate Sheridan   Ed Silverman     Health Tech   Erin Brodwin   Casey Ross     Politics   Lev Facher   Nicholas Florko     Health &amp; Science   Sharon Begley   Eric Boodman   Helen Branswell   Shraddha Chakradhar   Elizabeth Cooney   Andrew Joseph   Usha Lee McFarling   Jennifer Adaeze Okwerekwu   Nicholas St. Fleur     Team   View All       Events   STAT Events   Industry Events Calendar   2020 STAT Summit   STAT Health Tech Summit   Webinars   STAT Expert Advantage     Newsletters   Reports   Video   Podcast      Stat+      Exclusive analysis of biotech, pharma, and the life sciences Learn More   The Latest   My Account     Topics   Biotech   Pharma   Policy   Health Tech   Business     Columns   Adam's Take   Matt's Take   The Pharmalot View     Tools   CRISPR Tracker   Drug Pricing Policy Tracker     Events   STAT+ Conversations   All STAT Events          Account   My Account   Billing   Subscribe   Log In   Help     More   Contribute   Group Subscriptions     Follow Us                        Trending:   Coronavirus   Health   Biotech   Pharma                  HealthIt’s not all in the genes: Clean living can cut heart risks   By Associated Press November 14, 2016  Reprints                                                   Julio Cortez/AP                                               NEW ORLEANS — Clean living can slash your risk for heart disease even if your genes are heavily stacked against you.
 A large study finds that people with the most inherited risk cut their chances of having a heart attack or other heart problems in half if they didn’t smoke, ate well, exercised, and stayed slim.
 The opposite also is true: You can largely trash the benefit of good genes with unhealthy habits.
 “DNA is not destiny, and you have control,” said the study leader, Dr. Sekar Kathiresan, genetic research chief at Massachusetts General Hospital.
 “Many people assume that if your father had a heart attack, you’re destined to have a problem,” but the results show that’s not the case, he said.
 The study was discussed Sunday at an American Heart Association conference in New Orleans and published online in the New England Journal of Medicine.
 It’s long been known that genes and lifestyle affect heart risk, but how much influence each one has, and how much one factor can offset the other, are unknown.
 Researchers combined information on more than 55,000 people in four studies around the world.
 One included imaging to check for plaque building up in heart arteries.
 Participants were checked for 50 genes related to heart risks and placed in five groups based on how many they had.
 They also were sorted into three groups by healthy lifestyle factors — not being obese, exercising at least once a week, eating a healthy diet, and not smoking.
 The favorable lifestyle group had at least three of these four factors; the unfavorable group had one or none.
 The results: People with the most gene risk had nearly twice the chance of developing heart problems than people in the lowest gene risk group did.
 Roughly the same was true for those in the unfavorable lifestyle group versus the favorable one.
 But the interesting part was the difference in risk when gene and lifestyle factors were combined.
 “If you have an unfavorable lifestyle and high gene risk, your risk of having a heart attack over the next 10 years is 10 percent,” but with a good lifestyle, it was only 5 percent in one of the groups in the study, Kathiresan said.
 When researchers looked at the imaging results, genetic and lifestyle factors matched how much artery plaque was seen.
 Again, a healthy lifestyle mitigated the damage from flawed genes.
 “If genetics has dealt you a bad hand, can you overcome that?
 The simple answer is yes,” Kathieresan said.
 Related: 					    						Raising ‘good’ cholesterol doesn’t protect against heart disease after all, study finds					   Dr. Pamela Morris of the Medical University of South Carolina, who heads the American College of Cardiology’s prevention committee, said some patients with a strong family history of heart problems will say “I’m doomed.
 Why should I bother?” But this study shows that “when you do the work, it makes a difference,” she said.
 “It’s not horribly complicated” to do either, she said.
 People don’t need to run a marathon, be vegans or “be a twig” in terms of weight, she said.
 — Marilynn Marchione                                           About the Author						 Reprints    Associated Press     Tags genetics healthy living heart disease              Trending          					With Murthy and Kessler, Biden leans on experience to…				  					With Murthy and Kessler, Biden leans on experience to steer Covid-19 task force				       					A national Covid-19 vaccine confidence project: job No.
 1…				  					A national Covid-19 vaccine confidence project: job No.
