Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                 Quarantine and Isolation            Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                         Legal Authorities for Isolation and Quarantine     Minus     Related Pages     Federal isolation and quarantine are authorized for these communicable diseases Cholera Diphtheria Infectious tuberculosis Plague Smallpox Yellow fever Viral hemorrhagic fevers Severe acute respiratory syndromes Flu that can cause a pandemic  Federal isolation and quarantine are authorized by Executive Order of the President.
 The President can revise this list by Executive Order.
 Isolation and Quarantine Isolation and quarantine help protect the public by preventing exposure to people who have or may have a contagious disease.
 Isolation separates sick people with a quarantinable communicable disease from people who are not sick.
 Quarantine separates and restricts the movement of people who were exposed to a contagious disease to see if they become sick.
 In addition to serving as medical functions, isolation and quarantine also are “police power” functions, derived from the right of the state to take action affecting individuals for the benefit of society.
 Federal Law The federal government derives its authority for isolation and quarantine from the Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution.
 Under section 361 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S. Code § 264), the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services is authorized to take measures to prevent the entry and spread of communicable diseases from foreign countries into the United States and between states.
 The authority for carrying out these functions on a daily basis has been delegated to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
 CDC’s Role Under 42 Code of Federal Regulations parts 70 and 71, CDC is authorized to detain, medically examine, and release persons arriving into the United States and traveling between states who are suspected of carrying these communicable diseases.
 As part of its federal authority, CDC routinely monitors persons arriving at U.S. land border crossings and passengers and crew arriving at U.S. ports of entry for signs or symptoms of communicable diseases.
 When alerted about an ill passenger or crew  member by the pilot of a plane or captain of a ship, CDC may detain passengers and crew as necessary to investigate whether the cause of the illness on board is a communicable disease.
 State, Local, and Tribal Law States have police power functions to protect the health, safety, and welfare of persons within their borders.
 To control the spread of disease within their borders, states have laws to enforce the use of isolation and quarantine.
 In some states, local health authorities implement state law.
 In most states, breaking a quarantine order is a criminal misdemeanor.
 Tribes also have police power authority to take actions that promote the health, safety, and welfare of their own tribal members.
 Tribal health authorities may enforce their own isolation and quarantine laws within tribal lands, if such laws exist.
 Who Is in Charge The federal government  Acts to prevent the entry of communicable diseases into the United States.
 Quarantine and isolation may be used at U.S. ports of entry.
 Is authorized to take measures to prevent the spread of communicable diseases between states.
 May accept state and local assistance in enforcing federal quarantine.
 May assist state and local authorities in preventing the spread of communicable diseases.
 State, local, and tribal authorities  Enforce isolation and quarantine within their borders.
 It is possible for federal, state, local, and tribal health authorities to have and use all at the same time separate but coexisting legal quarantine power in certain events.
 In the event of a conflict, federal law is supreme.
 Enforcement If a quarantinable disease is suspected or identified, CDC may issue a federal isolation or quarantine order.
 Public health authorities at the federal, state, local, and tribal levels may sometimes seek help from police or other law enforcement officers to enforce a public health order.
 U.S. Customs and Border Protection and U.S. Coast Guard officers are authorized to help enforce federal quarantine orders.
 Breaking a federal quarantine order is punishable by fines and imprisonment.
 Federal law allows the conditional release of persons from quarantine if they comply with medical monitoring and surveillance.
 In the rare event that a federal order is issued by CDC, those individuals will be provided with an order for quarantine or isolation.
 An example of a Quarantine Order for Novel Coronavirus (print-only) pdf icon[PDF – 5 pages] is provided.
 This document outlines the rationale of the federal order as well as information on where the individual will be located, quarantine requirements including the length of the order, CDC’s legal authority, and information outlining what the individual can expect while under federal order.
 Federal Quarantine Rarely used Large-scale isolation and quarantine was last enforced during the influenza (“Spanish Flu”) pandemic in 1918–1919.
 In recent history, only a few public health events have prompted federal isolation or quarantine orders.
 Specific Laws and Regulations Applying to Quarantine and Isolation Visit the Specific Laws and Regulations Governing the Control of Communicable Diseases page.
 Guidance for Importation of Human Remains into the United States for Interment Visit the Guidance for Importation of Human Remains into the United States for Interment or Subsequent Cremation page.
 Page last reviewed: February 24, 2020 Content source: 
 	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)         homeQuarantine and Isolation  About Quarantine and Isolationplus icon  History of Quarantine   Quarantine Stationsplus icon  U.S. Quarantine Stations Contact List, Map, Fact Sheetsplus icon  Anchorage Quarantine Station Atlanta Quarantine Station Chicago Quarantine Station Detroit Quarantine Station El Paso &amp; San Diego Quarantine Stations El Paso &amp; San Diego Quarantine Stations (en Espanol) Honolulu Quarantine Stationplus icon  Honolulu Jurisdiction Map   Houston Quarantine Station Los Angeles Quarantine Station Miami Quarantine Station Minneapolis-St. Paul Quarantine Station New York Quarantine Station Newark Quarantine Station Philadelphia Quarantine Station San Francisco Quarantine Station San Juan Quarantine Station Seattle Quarantine Station Washington D.C. Quarantine Station Jurisdictions and Counties: California and Texas     Legal Authoritiesplus icon  FRN: Federal Travel Restrictions for Public Health Purposes Specific Laws and Regulations Final Rules for Control of Communicable Diseases: Interstate and Foreign – Scope and Definitions Final Rule for Control of Communicable Diseases: Interstate and Foreignplus icon  Regulatory Burden Report Q &amp; As about the Final Rule for Control of Communicable Diseases: Interstate (Domestic) and Foreign Quarantine   Interim Final Rule for Control of Communicable Diseases: Foreign Quarantineplus icon  Q &amp; As about the Interim Final Rule for Control of Communicable Diseases: Foreign Quarantine     Airline Guidanceplus icon  Reporting Death/Illnessplus icon  Airlines Tool Cabin Crew Tool Pilots Tool Reporting: Symptom Definitions   Managing Ill Passengers/Crewplus icon  Preventing Spread of Disease: Guidance for Cabin Crew Coronavirus Disease 2019 Guidance Measles Airline Recommendations Zika Q &amp; A     Cruise Ship Guidanceplus icon  Technical Instructions for Mitigation of COVID-19 Among Cruise Ship Crew Reporting Death or Illness on Cruisesplus icon  How to Report Onboard Death or Illness How to Calculate the Influenza or ILI Case Outbreak Threshold    Management of Ill Passengers/Crewplus icon  Coronavirus Disease 2019 Guidance for Ships Measles Maritime Recommendations Varicella (Chickenpox) Management Influenza-like Illness (ILI) Management     Cargo Ship Guidanceplus icon  Reporting Death or Illness in Cargoplus icon  How to Report Onboard Death or Illness   Coronavirus Disease 2019 Guidance for Ships   Mask and Travel Guidance Maritime Resourcesplus icon  Definitions: Signs, Symptoms, &amp; Conditions Investigation Form: Explanation of Key Fields Federal Regulations: Reporting Death or Illness  Ship Sanitation Certificates Zika Q &amp; A   Contact Investigation Travel Restrictionsplus icon  FAQs: Travel Restrictions      Related LinksImportationUnited States - Mexico Public HealthTravelers' HealthVessel Sanitation ProgramFunding and Guidance for State and Local Health DepartmentsEmergency Preparedness and ResponseDivision of Global Migration and Quarantine           HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
