A newly qualified California ballot measure would restrict drug prices paid by the state.
 Handout     TNS    A newly qualified November 2016 ballot measure would impose price controls on state drug purchases, potentially setting up an expensive battle with the pharmaceutical industry.
 The California secretary of state&apos;s office announced Thursday evening that proponents of the California Drug Price Relief Act had turned in more than enough valid voter signatures to make next fall’s ballot, based on a random sample of the nearly 543,000 signatures proponents submitted this summer.
 The measure would tie state drug purchases to prices paid by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.
 Proponents say that would mean big reductions in what the state spends to buy drugs for its prison system and other programs.
 Supporters have noted the profits of the pharmaceutical industry and, signaling a potential campaign theme, highlighted this week’s arrest of pharmaceutical executive Martin Shkreli on securities fraud charges.
 “This is the most comprehensive drug price reduction initiative that has gone before voters in more than a decade,” Mike Roth, a spokesman for Californians for Lower Drug Prices, said in a statement Friday.
 “At a time when Pharma greed is in the headlines daily, voters know Pharma isn’t looking out for their pocketbooks.” Capitol Alert newsletter Get political and Capitol news in your inbox every weekday, plus breaking alerts.
 Recaptcha SIGN UP This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
 Describing the measure as the “California state government drug purchasing initiative,” critics likely will try to tap into voter suspicion of government-run healthcare.
 “It will increase the prices of prescription drugs sold to veterans and many California consumers and will reduce the number of drug choices available to Californians all while costing taxpayers millions more in state bureaucracy and lawsuits because it will be virtually impossible to implement,” Kathy Fairbanks, a spokeswoman for opponents’ campaign, said in a statement.
 The pharmaceutical industry starts with an enormous financial advantage.
 PhRMA’s California campaign committee has reported raising almost $38 million from nearly 30 drug makers since September, with Johnson &amp; Johnson and Pfizer, Inc. giving about $6 million apiece.
 Proponents’ campaign committee had $69,000 on hand as of Sept. 30 and has raised $125,000 since then.
 The measure’s sponsor, the AIDS Healthcare Foundation, can pull the initiative off the ballot through June 30, 2016.
 That creates the possibility of a deal in the Legislature that prevents a ballot fight.
 All-access digital subscription Connect to local news for just $4.99 a month for 12 months.
 Last month, election officials cleared a measure requiring adult-film actors to wear condoms.
 California Democrats dismayed by the power of Trump love          By Lara Korte    November 08, 2020 05:00 AM,                                                   ORDER REPRINT      →              Some California Democrats question why Joe Biden didn’t win by more after Donald Trump drove division and more than 230,000 Americans died in a global pandemic.
 KEEP READING  	    Advertising  Catherine Bettar916-321-1083cbettar@sacbee.com  Capitol Alert staff  Amy Chance Political editor achance@sacbee.com @Amy_Chance Adam Ashton Capitol Bureau chief aashton@sacbee.com @Adam_Ashton Sophia Bollag Policy and politics sbollag@sacbee.com @SophiaBollag 916-326-5545 Kate Irby California and Washington, D.C. kirby@mcclatchydc.com @kateirby 202-383-6071 David Lightman California and Washington, D.C. dlightman@mcclatchydc.com @LightmanDavid 202-365-5241 Andrew Sheeler Breaking news, California asheeler@thetribunenews.com @andrewsheeler 805-781-7934 Wes Venteicher State agencies wventeicher@sacbee.com @wesventeicher 916-321-1410 Hannah Wiley Legislature, Capitol Alert hwiley@sacbee.com @hannahcwiley 916-321-5236 Facebook @capitolalert Twitter @CapitolAlert     All-access digital subscription #ReadLocal   Connect to local news for just $4.99 a month for 12 months.
 VIEW OFFER               Capitol Alert           What Joe Biden’s victory means for California in Washington           November 08, 2020 5:00 AM                   Capitol Alert           Who Gavin Newsom might pick for a U.S. Senate seat to replace Kamala Harris                   California           Who from California will President-elect Biden pick for his administration?
 Capitol Alert           California Republican’s chief of staff rebuked after sexual harassment complaint                   Elections           California’s far-left activists shocked they beat Prop.
 25.
 What’s the future of bail now?
 Capitol Alert           California voters killed Legislature’s more liberal ideas — and gave Democrats a reality check            Take Us With You Real-time updates and all local stories you want right in the palm of your hand.
