(530) 224-5600  Students | Student Portal | Sitemap | Directions | Directory                            About Simpson   About Simpson  Mission, Vision and Values Strategic Plan Our Programs Our Location Contact Us Conference Services  Employment News and Events GIVE NOW    Students  Student Activities Residence Life Student Missions Chapelcast Registrar and Transcripts Student Financial Services Veterans Services More Student Services EXPLORE    YOU BELONG HERE      Faculty Directory A-Z Site Directory Ask SU (FAQs)      Academics   Academic Programs  Undergraduates School of Nursing Degree Completion Graduate Studies Tozer Seminary FACULTY    Students  Academic Resources Academic Affairs Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Course Schedules Library Registrar and Transcripts    YOU BELONG HERE      Learn Online Study Abroad Teach      Admissions   Admissions  Undergraduate Admissions School of Nursing Admissions Degree Completion Admissions Graduate Studies Admissions Tozer Admissions Returning Students Transfer Students COUNSELORS    Affordability  Tuition and Fees Scholarships and Loans ORIENTATION    YOU BELONG HERE    Visit Campus Request Information APPLY      Alumni &amp; Parents   Alumni Resources  Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Online Community Gateway Magazine HOMECOMING    Parent Resources  Parent Events Parent e-Newsletter Parent F.A.Q.
 Parent Handbook Parent Prayer Team HUGS FROM HOME    EXTENDED COMMUNITY    Community Resources Donor Information       Athletics   Men’s Sports  Cross Country Soccer Wrestling Basketball Baseball Golf    Women’s Sports  Cross Country Soccer Volleyball Basketball Softball Golf    GO RED HAWKS!
 Athletics News Support Athletics      Donate          SU Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Majors  Biology               REQUEST INFORMATION     DOWNLOAD PROGRAM FLIER        Programs Faculty Resources Testimonials Admissions    Biology Major        The biology program at Simpson University offers a strong depth of instruction in the biological sciences while encompassing the breadth of the different areas biologists study.
 Within our major, students have the option to specialize in pre-health sciences which allows for additional classes needed to prepare for medical, dental or pharmacy school as well as other careers in the allied health industry.
 In addition, students are able to prepare for careers in biotechnology through our biotech specialization program.
 With a graduate placement rate of nearly 100% many of our graduates have gone onto such careers or have pursued graduate and/or professional education programs.
 Simpson University's Biology major features small class and lab sizes, so students can get one-on-one attention from faculty members.
 Selected students also have the opportunity to do summer research projects with the science faculty.
 Facilities   To address the rising demand for medical professionals, Simpson University offers an undergraduate biology major and nursing program (BSN) and a R.N.-to-B.S.N.
 Nursing program.
 Science and Nursing Center  The Science and Nursing Center is equipped with:  Two stories: one floor dedicated to science majors and one to nursing education Six patient simulation zones Two clinical skills labs Specialized areas for physics, microbiology, genetics, chemistry, ecology and anatomy General-purpose classrooms Centralized faculty offices     Learn In Real World Environments         As a biology student at Simpson University, you'll have the opportunity to practice stewardship and expand your horizons...all while earning credits toward your degree.
 You can choose to take summer classes at Au Sable Institute of Environmental Studies, where you'll participate in sustainable community-building, environmental education projects and community outreach services in the Great Lakes Forest, Puget Sound, South Florida or South India.
 You'll also have the option to enjoy a semester abroad through the Latin American Studies Partnership Program.
 In Latin America, you'll broaden your horizons by traveling through diverse cultures and living with native families, while taking part in field studies and dynamic classroom experiences based on the politically and economically sensitive relationship between North America and Latin America.
 Career Opportunities   In addition to careers in medicine, research or teaching, your biology degree from Simpson will also help prepare you for a career in:     Pharmaceutical Sales Business Consultation Biotechnology Patent &amp; Environmental Law Healthcare Technology Technical Writing Nursing Science Journalism  Physical Therapy Computer Programming Public Health     Computer Modeling Wildlife Biology   Environmental Science Clinical Chemistry Waste Management Genetic Counseling Agriculture Pharmaceutical Research Occupational Therapy Biomedical Engineering Research     ...and dozens of other fields!
 Research Challenge   If your plans include graduate studies, we also invite you to take a close look at our B.S.
 in Biology classes to see how our curriculum aligns with the prerequisites for the graduate or professional school of your choice.
 Essential Preparation   At Simpson University we want to see you thrive.
 If you are considering a career in biology or nursing and other medical professions, we encourage you to come prepared.
 A passion for knowledge and a strong college preparatory background in mathematics (Algebra I, Algebra II, Geometry, and Trigonometry) and the natural sciences (physical science, biology, and chemistry) are essential.
 If you are well prepared, you will find your academic experience at Simpson University not only challenging, but also incredibly rewarding.
 Learning Outcomes  Students will be able to recall and articulate basic scientific concepts and processes.
 Students will be able to employ and apply appropriate laboratory techniques to obtain data.
 Students will demonstrate proficiency in applying the scientific method and creating a mock grant proposal.
 Students will be able to read reviews of primary scientific literature and effectively present their findings.
 Students will be able to analyze one issue in biology that engenders controversy, present multiple view points on the issue, and articulate a Christian viewpoint with means of addressing the issue in public space.
 Major Specific Resources  Credit Worksheets Catalog Apply Now   Academic Resources  Academic Success Center Advising Center Career Services Library Writing Center    “I was encouraged to use my inquisitive nature to pursue questions about the world around me as well as have my eyes opened to questions I never knew existed.
 It is so fulfilling to be able to use my hands and literally work through an experiment or problem.” — Leanne Davis, Class of 2015 “I developed real relationships with my professors, who were able to eventually write me excellent letters of recommendation,” she said.
 “They always believed in me and encouraged me to pursue my dreams.
 They did everything they could to help me get there.” — Erin (Brink) Hoffman, Class of 2011   Siby Sabu - 2013 Biology Graduate   "There was something about the way the (biology) program was set up and the way teachers interacted with students.
 Their heart behind why they wanted to do what they do just drew me in."
 — Siby Sabu, Class of 2013 Biology Student      Click here to see video    Kayla Holland - Current Biology and Spanish Student   "Being able to move into the new building in the fall is making science and nursing majors so much more passionate about our field of study."
 — Kayla Holland - Biology and Spanish Student, Class of 2017     Click here to see video       Admissions Process and Requirements UG Dates and Deadlines Visit Campus Apply Now for our Biology program Get Financial Aid Information         SimpsonU.edu Search SimpsonU Academic Affairs  Academic Programs  Undergraduate Majors         Biology Business Administration Communication Engineering History Kinesiology Liberal Studies (Education) Mathematics Math for Teachers Music Nursing (BSN) Outdoor Leadership Political Science Psychology Social Science Social Science for Teachers Undecided   Undergraduate Minors  UG Career Pathways  School of Nursing  Adult Studies (ASPIRE)  Graduate Studies  A.W.
