HomeOur WorkGet InvolvedAbout UsKids &amp; FamilyEducational ResourcesMagazinesLatest News NWF.ORG                     NWF.ORGTOPICS   Donate                 DonateTake Action    Wildlife FactsConservationGarden HabitatsStudents and NatureGet Outside       Garden Habitats Wildlife Facts Finding a Fawn: What To Do    David Mizejewski   |             April 15, 2015       Every springtime, the National Wildlife Federation gets numerous emails and phone calls from concerned people asking the following question: “I found an abandoned fawn!
 Where can I take it?” The answer is almost always the same: The fawn isn’t abandoned and you should leave it right where it is.
 Read on to find out more about what’s going on with these adorable baby deer that seem too small to be left on their own.
 Resting fawn (Photo by Maureen Smith/NWF) Lone Fawns are Not Abandoned There is a strong probability that you did not find an abandoned fawn.
 Female deer hide their newborn fawns in tall grass or brush and move some distance away to feed to avoid drawing predators to their offspring.
 With the proliferation of deer in suburban areas, sometimes this happens right in our own yards.
 The fawn simply waits in hiding until its mother returns.
 Soon, the fawns will be strong enough to follow the does and run from predators, and they no longer need to spend hours alone in hiding.
 A “pet” deer approaches a hunter.
 Photo credit: Stephen Moyer Though it seems that they are vulnerable, these young fawns are not totally helpless.
 Their spotted pelts look like dappled sunlight on the forest floor and offer great camouflage.
 They do not have strong scent that would attract predators.
 Fawns are also programmed to keep totally still and quiet when hiding while their mother forages.
 The combination of the physical attributes and the behavior of both does and fawns are remarkably successful at limiting depredation at such a vulnerable time.
 “Rescuing” Fawns is Illegal Wild animals don’t make good pets, and deserve to live wild and free.
 In fact, for some species there there are laws to protect wildlife from being taken from the wild by people.
 Well-meaning people who take fawns out of the wild and raise them violate these laws, often unwittingly and nearly always unnecessarily.
 Come spring, animal rescue centers are overloaded with “abandoned” fawns that never needed help from humans in the first place.
 You might mean well, but taking a fawn out of the wild is essentially “fawn-napping.” And consider this: illegally raising deer fawns greatly reduces their chances of survival.
 It is difficult for an untrained person to provide a quality diet and captive care, and due to a hand-raised deer’s lack of fear of humans, these animals are more likely to be hit by cars, killed by dogs, or shot by hunters.
 The photo to the right shows what someone did to try and protect a  “pet” wild deer from hunters: they put a collar on it.
 Unfortunately, this deer was totally unafraid of people, and walked right up to a hunter.
 Luckily for this particular animal, the hunter just snapped this picture and let it go on its way.
 The next time it approaches a human it will probably not be so lucky.
 When to Intervene There are cases where it is okay to help lone fawns.
 If you notice that a fawn is clearly injured or that it is near a dead adult doe, then it is acceptable to seek help.
 Start by calling your local animal control department or nature center, who can either take the animal or help locate a licensed wildlife rehabilitator who can.
 If a hidden fawn is discovered on your property, it’s up to you to keep your pet dogs and your children away from it.
 Please do not closely approach or handle wildlife .
 Garden Habitats, Wildlife Facts | baby animals, Backyard Habitat, Certified Wildlife Habitat, deer, Garden for Wildlife, spring      Share &amp; Save  Tweet Share Comment Email Share     Recovering America’s Wildlife Act This Bill Saves Wildlife in Crisis.
 Urge Congress to Support It.
 Learn More       Written by David Mizejewski        RecentPopular      Conservation  We are Here, and Buffalo are our History and Future   Students and Nature  Education Newsletter November 2020   Conservation, People and Wildlife  Restoring Our National Forests to Meet the Challenges of a…   Conservation  Wildlife Need Us to Count Every Vote   Conservation  What a Changing Court Could Mean for Our Wildlife, Waters,…   Conservation  Artes Migratorias: Celebrando a la Mariposa Monarca en México   Conservation  Migrating Arts: Celebrating the Monarch Butterfly in México   Conservation, People and Wildlife  Environmental Justice Mapping Tools: Use and Potential in Policy Making…   Conservation, People and Wildlife  American Climate Profiles: Wildfire Season Heats Up   Conservation, People and Wildlife  A Change in FEMA Policy Spells Good News for Communities,…  
  // 
       Conservation  11 Tips to Keep Your Indoor Cat Happy   Garden Habitats, Wildlife Facts  10 Nutty Facts to Make You Appreciate Squirrels   Wildlife Facts  How to Recycle Halloween Pumpkins for Wildlife   Garden Habitats, Wildlife Facts  NOT Alvin and the Chipmunks: 10 Facts You May Not…   Wildlife Facts  Is This a Heron, Egret or Crane?
 Show More Show Less     Comments are closed.
 Never miss a story    Sign Up Now                AboutAuthorsArchivesContact Us           National Wildlife Federation
