World's Largest English Language News Service with Over 500
 Articles Updated Daily "The News You Need Today…For The World You’ll Live In Tomorrow."
 What You
 Aren’t Being Told About The World You Live In How The “Conspiracy Theory” Label Was Conceived To Derail The
 Truth Movement How Covert American Agents Infiltrate the Internet to
 Manipulate, Deceive, and Destroy Reputations   March 15, 2017 Obama Flees After Massive Drug Bust Aboard Lady Michelle Vessel In Caribbean  By: Sorcha Faal, and as reported
 to her Western Subscribers An intriguing Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR)
 report circulating in the Kremlin today states that former President Barack
 Obama fled Washington D.C. this past Friday (10 March) traveling to New York
 City, Omaha (Nebraska), San Jose (California) and ending up in Hawaii—all
 occurring within 36 hours while he sought elite allies to defend him, and
 keeping him ahead of investigators from the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) of the US Department of the Treasury (DoT) seeking to
 interview him about
 one of the largest drug busts in American history occurring in the Caribbean
 aboard a fishing vessel named the Lady Michelle.
 [Note: Some words
 and/or phrases appearing in quotes in this report are English language
 approximations of Russian words/phrases having no exact counterpart.]
 4.2 tons of seized cocaine, worth an estimated $125
 million, from the President Barack Obama linked fishing vessel named Lady Michelle on 16 February 2017   According to this report, nearly immediately
 upon taking office as President Donald Trump’s Attorney General on 9 February, Jeff Sessions, as
 head of the US Department of Justice
 (DOJ), was handed a top secret file by Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director James Comey
 detailing the nearly two-decade long crimes of 12 current and former security
 and intelligence officers belonging to the Transportation
 Safety Administration (TSA) who for at
 least 18 years under both the Bush and Obama regimes had smuggled
 into the United States at least $100 million worth of cocaine.
 Four days after Attorney General Sessions
 received this top secret file on these Bush-Obama regime drug criminals from
 Director Comey, on 13 February, this report continues, he ordered
 their immediate arrest—and that was meant to coincide with former President
 Obama being out of the United States as he was
 vacationing in the Virgin Islands.
 President Obama vacationing in Virgin
  Islands, 7 February 2017   Upon their learning that Attorney General Sessions had ordered the arrest of
 this Bush-Obama regime TSA criminal drug ring, this report details, “surrogates/accomplices” of former
 President Obama vacationing with him in the Virgin Islands attempted to contact
 a Guyana national named Mohamed Nazim
 Hoseain—whom the SVR had previously identified as being an organizational member
 of the Islamic terror group known as the Muslim
 Brotherhood—and that President Trump is now preparing
 to name as a terror organization too.
 Mohamed Nazim Hoseain, this report
 explains, was unable, however, to be contacted by former President Obama’s “surrogates/accomplices” as the fishing
 vessel he
 was the captain of, named the Lady Michelle, was dead in the water
 about
 70 nautical miles off Paramaribo, Suriname, in international waters after
 all of its electronics had been disabled by a US Navy EA-6B
 Prowler electronic warfare aircraft—and that shortly afterwards, on 16
 February, it was boarded by the US Coast Guard whom discovered over 4 tonnes of
 cocaine valued at $125 million—and was the largest US
 drug bust in the Caribbean since 1999.
 Arrested with Mohamed Nazim Hoseain
 aboard the Lady Michelle drug ship, this report continues, were Richard La Cruz, 49; Neville Jeffrey, 68; and 30-year old Mark Anthony Williams—all
 of whom were remanded to US custody in the Virgin Islands just hours after
 former President Obama’s “surrogates/accomplices”
 flew out from there on a private aircraft.
 As to the Lady Michelle fishing vessel used by these cocaine smugglers,
 this report says, its Saint Vincent
 registration showed it being owned by the Argyle
 International Airport Development Company (IADCL)—and
 whom the
 US Coast Guard returned custody to under existing international treaties between
 these two nations.
 Critical to note about the Argyle
 International Airport Development Company, though, this report says, is
 that its sole business is the Argyle
 International Airport on Saint
 Vincent whose first ever
 flight into was on 14 February by a private charter aircraft from
 Mexico—and that upon this charter planes arrival, the Lady Michelle was in port
 awaiting departure—and whose
 “true/real” purpose has long been
 suspected to be for smuggling purposes:  
  “Forget
 the tourists, there is something much more lucrative
 afoot.
 It is whispered that recently cocaine barons have injected US$400 million
 into a group within the Vincentian government for help with setting up an
 improved link into the US
 of South American cocaine.
 There are five areas of concern for the South
 American investors.
 1. for
 the SVG ruling regime to be kept in power at any cost 2. the completion of Argyle Airport 3. the control of the abandoned fishery units at Bequia and Owia 4. tight control and implication of the police and coast guard 5. control of a working shipyard for the secret alteration of
 internal structures of vessels  6. building of a new shipping container port and facility The
 whole operation is compartmentalized so as no group or individual within the
 grouping knows everything.
 Those involved are high ranking Vincentian
 government officials, Venezuelans, Panamanians and, most importantly,
 Colombians.
 According
 to fishermen, Venezuelans have already inspected the fishery installations with
 the view of acquiring them.
 It is alleged that Venezuelans are involved in the
 new lease of the Ottley Hall shipyard complex.
 Venezuela is involved with building
 our airport at Argyle.”      Further raising fears that the Argyle
 International Airport is being used by drug smugglers linked to former
 President Obama, this report continues, was that barely a month a prior to his
 leaving office, in December, 2016, he
 quietly signed a new law called the United
 States-Caribbean Strategic Engagement Act that, in essence, would allow
 the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to secretly lease this entire
 airport and fishing boat facility—and who is the largest illegal drug smuggler
 the world has ever known.
 As to why the CIA would need the Argyle
 International Airport as a drug smuggling operation, this report explains,
 is due to the calamity that ensued in 2007 when their Gulf Stream II jet
 (aircraft #N987SA) that was used to transport rendition prisoners from Europe
 to America to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, crash-landed
 in Mexico carrying over 4 tons of cocaine—and that to this very day, no one
 has been prosecuted for.
 The CIA’s involvement with drug smuggling has long been known, this report
 says, and as the Huffington Post
 noted in their 2014 article titled “Key
 Figures In CIA-Crack Cocaine Scandal Begin To Come
 Forward” that, in part, said: “With
 the public in the U.S. and Latin America becoming increasingly skeptical of the
 war on drugs, key figures in a scandal that once rocked the Central
 Intelligence Agency are coming forward to tell their stories in a new
 documentary and in a series of interviews with The Huffington Post.
 More
 than 18 years have passed since Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Gary Webb
 stunned the world with his “Dark Alliance” newspaper series investigating the
 connections between the CIA, a crack cocaine explosion in the predominantly
 African-American neighborhoods of South Los Angeles, and the Nicaraguan Contra
 fighters — scandalous implications that outraged LA’s
 black community, severely damaged the intelligence agency’s reputation and
 launched a number of federal investigations.
 It did
 not end well for Webb, however.
 Major media, led by The New York Times, Washington Post and Los
  Angeles Times, worked to discredit his story.
 Under
 intense pressure, Webb’s 
 top editor abandoned him.
 Webb was drummed out of journalism.
 One
 LA Times reporter recently apologized for his leading role in the assault on
 Webb, but it came too late.
 Webb died in 2004 from an apparent suicide.”    Want to know more?
 Click HERE.
 Also in 2014, this report continues, The
 American New Service shockingly revealed how grave these crimes had
 actually become in their article titled “U.S.
 Government and Top Mexican Drug Cartel Exposed as Partners” that, again
 in part, said:  “For
 over a decade, under multiple administrations, the U.S. government had a secret
 agreement with the ruthless Mexican Sinaloa drug cartel that allowed it to
 operate with impunity, an in-depth investigation by a leading Mexican newspaper
 confirmed this week.
 In exchange
 for information and assistance in quashing competing criminal syndicates, the
 Bush and Obama administrations let the Sinaloa cartel import tons of drugs into
 the United States while wiping out Sinaloa competitors and ensuring that its
 leaders would not be prosecuted for their long list of major crimes.
 Other
 revelations also point strongly to massive but clandestine U.S. government
 involvement in drug trafficking.
 Relying
 on over 100 interviews with current and former government functionaries on both
 sides of the border, as well as official documents from the U.S. and Mexican
 governments, Mexico’s El Universal concluded that the U.S. Drug Enforcement
 Administration (DEA), Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), and the U.S.
 Justice Department had secretly worked with Mexican drug lords.
 The
 controversial conspiring led to increased violence across Mexico, where many tens of
 thousands have been murdered in recent years, the newspaper found after its
 year-long probe.
 The U.S. agents and their shady deals with Mexican
 drug lords even sparked what the paper called a “secret war” inside Mexico.”      To the exact scheme being perpetrated upon the American people by the CIA,
 this report concludes, is their paying off by the hundreds-of-millions of
 dollars the former Clinton, Bush and now Obama regimes from their massive
 illegal drug smuggling profits—but that President Trump doesn’t care about as
 he’s already worth billions-of-dollars, has never drank, done drugs, or smoked,
 and whose actions in the past fortnight alone have cost these evil monster over
 $200 million—leading no one in the Kremlin wondering why he is so hated by
 these elite criminals and their mainstream propaganda media allies alike.
 March 15, 2017 © EU and US all rights
 reserved.
 Permission to use this report
 in its entirety is granted under the condition it is linked back to its
 original source at WhatDoesItMean.Com.
 Freebase content licensed under CC-BY and GFDL.
 [Note:
 Many governments and their intelligence services actively campaign against the
 information found in these reports so as not to alarm their citizens about the
 many catastrophic Earth changes and events to come, a stance that the Sisters of Sorcha Faal
 strongly disagree with in believing that it is every human beings right to know
 the truth.
 Due to our missions conflicts
 with that of those governments, the responses of their ‘agents’ has been a longstanding
 misinformation/misdirection campaign designed to discredit us, and others like
 us, that is exampled in numerous places, including HERE.]
 [Note:
 The WhatDoesItMean.com website was created for and donated to the Sisters of
 Sorcha Faal in 2003 by a small group of American computer experts led by the
 late global technology guru Wayne
 Green (1922-2013) to counter the propaganda being used by the West to
 promote their illegal 2003 invasion of Iraq.]
 [Note:
 The word Kremlin (fortress inside a city) as used in this report refers to
 Russian citadels, including in Moscow,
 having cathedrals wherein female Schema monks (Orthodox nuns) reside, many of
 whom are devoted to the mission of the Sisters of Sorcha Faal.]
 What You Don’t Know About America, And Why Millions Will Die Final Battle For The World Begins: But Will Trumpian Forces
 Unite?
 Return
 To Main Page
