Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                 Stroke            Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                            Stroke Facts     Minus     Related Pages      The country’s highest death rates from stroke are in the southeastern United States.2   Find facts and statistics about stroke in the United States.
 Stroke Statistics  In 2018, 1 in every 6 deaths from cardiovascular disease was due to stroke.1 Someone in the United States has a stroke every 40 seconds.
 Every 4 minutes, someone dies of stroke.2 Every year, more than 795,000 people in the United States have a stroke.
 About 610,000 of these are first or new strokes.2 About 185,000 strokes—nearly 1 of 4—are in people who have had a previous stroke.2 About 87% of all strokes are ischemic strokes, in which blood flow to the brain is blocked.2 Stroke-related costs in the United States came to nearly $46 billion between 2014 and 2015.2 This total includes the cost of health care services, medicines to treat stroke, and missed days of work.
 Risk of having a first stroke is nearly twice as high for blacks as for whites,2 and blacks have the highest rate of death due to stroke.1 Though stroke death rates have declined for decades among all race/ethnicities, Hispanics have seen an increase in death rates since 2013.1  Stroke Risk Varies by Age  Stroke risk increases with age, but strokes can—and do—occur at any age.
 In 2009, 34% of people hospitalized for stroke were less than 65 years old.3  Early Action Is Important for Stroke Know the warning signs and symptoms of stroke so that you can act fast if you or someone you know might be having a stroke.
 The chances of survival are greater when emergency treatment begins quickly.
 In one survey, most respondents—93%—recognized sudden numbness on one side as a symptom of stroke.
 Only 38% were aware of all major symptoms and knew to call 9-1-1 when someone was having a stroke.4 Patients who arrive at the emergency room within 3 hours of their first symptoms often have less disability 3 months after a stroke than those who received delayed care.4  Americans at Risk for Stroke High blood pressure, high cholesterol, smoking, obesity, and diabetes are leading causes of stroke.
 1 in 3 US adults has at least one of these conditions or habits.2  You can take steps to prevent stroke.
 More Information From CDC:  Learn about CDC programs that address stroke.
 Vital Signs: Preventing Stroke Deaths Signs and Symptoms of Stroke High Blood Pressure High Cholesterol Smoking Diabetes Obesity  From other organizations:  What You Need to Know About Strokeexternal icon—National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke Know Stroke: Know the Signs, Act in Timeexternal icon–NINDS Mind Your Risksexternal icon–National Institutes of Health Strokeexternal icon–Medline Plus Brain Attack Coalitionexternal icon Cryptogenic Stroke Public Health Conference Report 2015external icon Internet Stroke Centerexternal icon Stroke Resource Centerexternal icon–American Heart Association/American Stroke Association World Stroke Organizationexternal icon  References  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 Underlying Cause of Death, 1999–2018.
 CDC WONDER Online Database.
 Atlanta, GA: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; 2018.
 Accessed March 12, 2020.
 Virani SS, Alonso A, Benjamin EJ, Bittencourt MS, Callaway CW, Carson AP, et al.
 Heart disease and stroke statistics—2020 update: a report from the American Heart Associationexternal icon.
 Circulation.
 2020;141(9):e139–e596.
 Hall MJ, Levant S, DeFrances CJ.
 Hospitalization for stroke in U.S. hospitals, 1989–2009.
 NCHS data brief, No.
 95.
 Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health Statistics; 2012.
 Fang J, Keenan NL, Ayala C, Dai S, Merritt R, Denny CH.
 Awareness of stroke warning symptoms—13 states and the District of Columbia, 2005.
 MMWR 2008;57:481–5.
 Page last reviewed: September 8, 2020 Content source: 	National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion
 , Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention          home Stroke Home    About Stroke expand  Types of Stroke Signs and Symptoms Stroke Treatment Recovery Men and Stroke Women and Stroke    Stroke Risk expand  Conditions Behavior Family History    Prevention expand  Healthy Living Conditions    Survivor Stories expand  Adrian’s Story Alyson’s Story Blanche’s Story Brooke’s Story Charles’s Story Clark’s Story John’s Story Lilian’s Story Prince’s Story Wanda’s Story    Statistics &amp; Maps expand  Stroke Facts Maps and Data Sources Statistical Reports MMWRs    Stroke Resources for Health Professionals expand  Stroke Patient Education Handouts Stroke Educational Materials for Health Professionals Stroke Communications Kit Publications   CDC Addresses Stroke     Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:  Email Address  What's this?
 Submit    Related CDC Web Sites   Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention Heart Disease High Blood Pressure Salt Cholesterol Million Hearts®External 
   file_external
       WISEWOMAN Program      Other Chronic Disease Topics   Diabetes Nutrition Obesity Physical Activity Heart Disease                  HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
