Skip to main content      U.S. Department of Health &amp; Human Services            Search the NIH Website    NIH Employee Intranet Staff Directory En Español       Site Menu     Home    Health Information    Health Info Lines Find Health Services HealthCare.gov NIH Clinical Research Trials and You Talking to Your Doctor Science Education Resources Community Resources Clear Health A–Z Publications List  More »    Search Health Topics         Quick Links  MedlinePlus Health Info NIH News in Health Wellness Toolkits       Grants &amp; Funding    Grants Home Page Find Funding Due Dates How to Apply About Grants Policy &amp; Compliance Grants News/Blog Contracts Loan Repayment  More »    Search the NIH Guide         Quick Links  RePORT eRA Commons NIH Common Fund       News &amp; Events    News Releases Digital Media Kits Media Resources Media Contacts Images and B-roll Events Social Media  More »   Quick Links  NIH News in Health NIH Research Matters NIH Record       Research &amp; Training    Medical Research Initiatives Science Highlights Science Education Research in NIH Labs &amp; Clinics Training Opportunities Library Resources Research Resources Clinical Research Resources Safety, Regulation and Guidance  More »   Quick Links  PubMed Stem Cell Information OppNet NIDB NIH Blueprint for Neuroscience Research       Institutes at NIH    List of Institutes, Centers &amp; Offices NIH Office of the Director Directors of NIH Institutes and Centers NIH Institute and Center Contact Information  More »   Quick Links  NCI NEI NHLBI NHGRI NIA NIAAA NIAID NIAMS NIBIB NICHD NIDCD NIDCR NIDDK NIDA NIEHS NIGMS NIMH NIMHD NINDS NINR NLM CC CIT CSR FIC NCATS NCCIH OD       About NIH    Who We Are What We Do Jobs at NIH Visitor Information Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us   More »   Quick Links  The NIH Director The NIH Almanac NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health® Impact of NIH Research Science, Health, and Public Trust                    COVID-19 is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation.
 A data and safety monitoring board (DSMB) met late Friday and determined that while there was no harm, the study drug was very unlikely to be beneficial to hospitalized patients with COVID-19.
 After its fourth interim analysis the DSMB, which regularly monitors the trial, recommended to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI), part of NIH, to stop the study.
 NHLBI halted the trial immediately.
 The Outcomes Related to COVID-19 treated with hydroxychloroquine among In-patients with symptomatic Disease study, or ORCHID Study, was being conducted by the Prevention and Early Treatment of Acute Lung Injury (PETAL) Clinical Trials Network of NHLBI.
 The data from this study indicate that this drug provided no additional benefit compared to placebo control for the treatment of COVID-19 in hospitalized patients.
 The first participants enrolled in the trial in April at Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, one of dozens of centers in the PETAL Network.
 The blinded, placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial aimed to enroll more than 500 adults who are currently hospitalized with COVID-19 or in an emergency department with anticipated hospitalization.
 More than 470 were enrolled at the time of study’s closure.
 All participants in the study received clinical care as indicated for their condition.
 Those randomized to the experimental intervention had also received hydroxychloroquine.
 Participants in the study will now continue to receive standard of care and follow up as indicated for their condition.
 ORCHID participants had been randomly assigned to receive hydroxychloroquine 400 mg twice daily for two doses (day one), then 200 mg twice daily for the subsequent eight doses (days two to five) or a placebo twice daily for five days.
 While COVID-19 usually presents as an acute respiratory infection, it can damage multiple organ systems, including heart, lung, and blood.
 Most adults with COVID-19 experience fever, cough, and fatigue and then recover within one to three weeks.
 However, some develop severe illness, typically manifesting as pneumonia and respiratory failure, with continued progression to acute respiratory distress syndrome and death.
 Hydroxychloroquine is used to treat malaria and rheumatoid conditions such as arthritis.
 Who James P. Kiley, Ph.D., Director, Division of Lung Diseases, NHLBI, is available for interviews.
 About the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI): NHLBI is the global leader in conducting and supporting research in heart, lung, and blood diseases and sleep disorders that advances scientific knowledge, improves public health, and saves lives.
 For more information, visit https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/.About the National Institutes of Health (NIH):
 NIH, the nation's medical research agency, includes 27 Institutes and Centers and is a component of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
 NIH is the primary federal agency conducting and supporting basic, clinical, and translational medical research, and is investigating the causes, treatments, and cures for both common and rare diseases.
 For more information about NIH and its programs, visit www.nih.gov.
 NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health®###        Institute/CenterNational Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI)Contact  NHLBI Press Office    301-496-5449      Connect with Us   Subscribe to news releases RSS Feed        Connect with Us  Contact Us Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Flickr More Social Media from NIH        Footer  NIH Home En Español Site Map Visitor Information Frequently Asked Questions Web Policies and Notices   Freedom of Information Act No Fear Act Office of Inspector General USA.gov – Government Made Easy  NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health® National Institutes of Health, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, Maryland 20892 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services   Back to Top
