Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                 Quarantine and Isolation            Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                          Specific Laws and Regulations Governing the Control of Communicable Diseases     Minus     Related Pages      The Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services has statutory responsibility for preventing the introduction, transmission, and spread of communicable diseases in the United States.
 The legal foundation for these activities is found in Titles 8 and 42 of the U.S. Code and relevant supporting regulations.
 Legal Authorities for Isolation and Quarantine The federal government derives its authority for isolation and quarantine from the Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution.
 Read more on the Legal Authorities for Isolation and Quarantine page.
 United States Federal Laws and Regulations for Control of Communicable Diseases United States Code The United States Code is a consolidation and codification by subject matter of the general and permanent laws of the United States.
 Sections 264-272 of the following portion of the code apply: Title 42 – The Public Health and Welfare, Chapter 6A – Public Health Service, Subchapter II – General Powers and Duties, Part G – Quarantine and Inspection.
 Links are provided by the Government Printing Officeexternal icon.
 42 USC Part G – Quarantine and Inspectionexternal icon; Introductory page  PDF version pdf icon[PDF – 6 pages]external icon   Sec.
 264.
 Regulations to control communicable diseasesexternal icon  PDF version pdf icon[PDF – 3 pages]external icon   Sec.
 265.
 Suspension of entries and imports from designated places to prevent spread of communicable diseasesexternal icon  PDF version pdf icon[PDF – 1 page]external icon   Sec.
 266.
 Special quarantine powers in time of warexternal icon  PDF version pdf icon[PDF – 1 page]external icon   Sec.
 267.
 Quarantine stations, grounds, and anchoragesexternal icon  PDF version pdf icon[PDF – 2 pages]external icon   Sec.
 268.
 Quarantine duties of consular and other officersexternal icon  PDF version pdf icon[PDF – 2 pages]external icon   Sec.
 269.
 Bills of healthexternal icon  PDF version pdf icon[PDF – 1 page]external icon   Sec.
 270.
 Quarantine regulations governing civil air navigation and civil aircraftexternal icon  PDF version pdf icon[PDF – 2 pages]external icon   Sec.
 271.
 Penalties for violation of quarantine lawsexternal icon  PDF version pdf icon[PDF – 1 pages]external icon   Sec.
 272.
 Administration of oaths by quarantine officersexternal icon  PDF version pdf icon[PDF – 1 page]external icon    Code of Federal Regulations The Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) is the official and complete text of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register.
 These regulations are established by the executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government.
 CDC’s regulations fall under Title 42: Public Health, Chapter 1 – Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services.
 Links are from the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration on the United States Government Printing Officeexternal icon web site.
 Specifically, Parts 70 and 71 of the following portion of the CFR apply:  42 CFR, Part 70: Interstate Quarantineexternal icon 42 CFR, Part 71: Foreign Quarantineexternal icon  Recent Updates  Final Rule for Control of Communicable Diseases: Interstate and Foreign    On January 19th, 2017, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) published the Final Rule titled Final Rule for Control of Communicable Diseases: Interstate and Foreign.
 This Final Rule enhances HHS/CDC’s ability to prevent the introduction, transmission, and spread of communicable diseases into the United States and interstate by clarifying and providing greater transparency regarding its response capabilities and practices.
 The final rule is published on the Office of the Federal Register’s website.external icon This regulation became effective on March 21st, 2017.
 More     Federal Register Notice: Criteria for Recommending Federal Travel Restrictions for Public Health Purposes, Including for Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers    On March 27, 2015, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the CDC published a Notice in the Federal Register titled Federal Register Notice: Criteria for Recommending Federal Travel Restrictions for Public Health Purposes, Including for Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers.
 This Notice was posted to describe the tools the federal government has to ensure that people with serious contagious diseases that pose a public health threat do not board commercial flights or enter into the United States without a public health evaluation.
 It also lists the criteria that CDC uses in deciding whether to recommend using such tools.
 More     Issuance and Enforcement Guidance for Dog Confinement Agreements    On July 10, 2014, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) posted guidance on the issuance and enforcement of dog confinement agreements.
 This guidance describes the factors that HHS/CDC will consider in deciding whether to issue a dog confinement agreement or deny entry of a dog being imported into the United States that has not been adequately vaccinated against rabies.
 Dog confinement agreements are covered under 42 CFR 71.51.
 This guidance becomes effective on August 11, 2014 (30 days after publication).
 More    Final Rule on Regulations for the Importation of Nonhuman Primates    On February 15, 2013, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) posted a final rule that revises HHS/CDC Regulation 42 Code of Federal Regulations Part 71.53, the regulations for importation of nonhuman primates (NHPs) into the United States.
 The final rule clarifies the process for importing NHPs and explains all requirements importers must follow to prevent the spread of disease from NHPs to humans.
 The final rule is effective beginning April 16, 2013.
 More     Regulations to Establish a User Fee for Filovirus Testing of Nonhuman Primates    On February 12, 2013, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) published a final rule establishing a user fee for filovirus testing of nonhuman primates (NHPs).
 According to the final rule, CDC will charge a $540 user fee to cover the costs for testing of NHP samples submitted to the CDC.
 Filovirus antigen-capture testing is required for all Old World NHPs that die for any reason other than trauma during the mandatory 31-day quarantine period or that have illness consistent with filovirus infection.
 This rule became effective on March 14, 2013.
 More     Regulations to Establish a User Fee for Filovirus Testing of Nonhuman Primates    On December 26, 2012, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) posted two direct final rules to the Federal Register that amend the Interstate and Foreign Quarantine Regulations.
 The public comment period through a simultaneously published notice of proposed rulemaking ended on January 25, 2013.
 The updates reorganize the Scope and Definitions for 42 Code of Federal Regulations Part 70 (Interstate Quarantine) and 42 CFR Part 71 (Foreign Quarantine) to reflect modern terminology and plain language used by industry and public health partners.
 The final rules are effective as of February 25, 2013.
 More    Executive Orders Executive Orders specify the list of diseases for which federal quarantine is authorized, which is required by the Public Health Service Act.
 On recommendation of the HHS Secretary, the President may amend this list whenever necessary to add new communicable diseases, including emerging diseases that are a threat to public health.
 Amendment to Executive Order 13295: Quarantinable Communicable Diseasesexternal icon Federal Register Archives, signed April 4, 2003, amended by 13375 on April 1, 2005 and and by 13674 on July 31, 2014.
 Related Links Additional Public Health Law Resources  Center for Law and the Public’s Healthexternal icon The Model State Emergency Health Powers ActA draft for discussion, prepared by The Center for Law and the Public’s Health, 2001 pdf icon[PDF – 39 pages]external icon   For animal importation and quarantine regulations, please see the Laws and Regulations page on the Animal Importation site             
 						Page last reviewed: April 10, 2019 Content source: 
 	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)         homeQuarantine and Isolation  About Quarantine and Isolationplus icon  History of Quarantine   Quarantine Stationsplus icon  U.S. Quarantine Stations Contact List, Map, Fact Sheetsplus icon  Anchorage Quarantine Station Atlanta Quarantine Station Chicago Quarantine Station Detroit Quarantine Station El Paso &amp; San Diego Quarantine Stations El Paso &amp; San Diego Quarantine Stations (en Espanol) Honolulu Quarantine Stationplus icon  Honolulu Jurisdiction Map   Houston Quarantine Station Los Angeles Quarantine Station Miami Quarantine Station Minneapolis-St. Paul Quarantine Station New York Quarantine Station Newark Quarantine Station Philadelphia Quarantine Station San Francisco Quarantine Station San Juan Quarantine Station Seattle Quarantine Station Washington D.C. Quarantine Station Jurisdictions and Counties: California and Texas     Legal Authoritiesplus icon  FRN: Federal Travel Restrictions for Public Health Purposes Specific Laws and Regulations Final Rules for Control of Communicable Diseases: Interstate and Foreign – Scope and Definitions Final Rule for Control of Communicable Diseases: Interstate and Foreignplus icon  Regulatory Burden Report Q &amp; As about the Final Rule for Control of Communicable Diseases: Interstate (Domestic) and Foreign Quarantine   Interim Final Rule for Control of Communicable Diseases: Foreign Quarantineplus icon  Q &amp; As about the Interim Final Rule for Control of Communicable Diseases: Foreign Quarantine     Airline Guidanceplus icon  Reporting Death/Illnessplus icon  Airlines Tool Cabin Crew Tool Pilots Tool Reporting: Symptom Definitions   Managing Ill Passengers/Crewplus icon  Preventing Spread of Disease: Guidance for Cabin Crew Coronavirus Disease 2019 Guidance Measles Airline Recommendations Zika Q &amp; A     Cruise Ship Guidanceplus icon  Technical Instructions for Mitigation of COVID-19 Among Cruise Ship Crew Reporting Death or Illness on Cruisesplus icon  How to Report Onboard Death or Illness How to Calculate the Influenza or ILI Case Outbreak Threshold    Management of Ill Passengers/Crewplus icon  Coronavirus Disease 2019 Guidance for Ships Measles Maritime Recommendations Varicella (Chickenpox) Management Influenza-like Illness (ILI) Management     Cargo Ship Guidanceplus icon  Reporting Death or Illness in Cargoplus icon  How to Report Onboard Death or Illness   Coronavirus Disease 2019 Guidance for Ships   Mask and Travel Guidance Maritime Resourcesplus icon  Definitions: Signs, Symptoms, &amp; Conditions Investigation Form: Explanation of Key Fields Federal Regulations: Reporting Death or Illness  Ship Sanitation Certificates Zika Q &amp; A   Contact Investigation Travel Restrictionsplus icon  FAQs: Travel Restrictions      Related LinksImportationUnited States - Mexico Public HealthTravelers' HealthVessel Sanitation ProgramFunding and Guidance for State and Local Health DepartmentsEmergency Preparedness and ResponseDivision of Global Migration and Quarantine           HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
