Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 Kim LaCapria       Published 9 May 2016                          				smg.ads.load( 'post-featured-1' ); 			    Claim  Feminine hygiene products are subject to sales tax in most states.
 See Example(s)    									I read an article on Facebook saying 40 states levy a tax on tampons!
 Seems a bit of a stretch IMO
 
 I read an article that 45 states charge a luxury tax on feminine products																			Collected via e-mail and Internet, May 2016        Rating         True About this rating        Do you rely on Snopes reporting?
 Become a member today.
 smg.ads.load( 'rating-1' ); 			    Origin  A tax on feminine hygiene products (also known as a “tampon tax”) was not new by the time social media interest in the topic appeared in May 2016, but a screenshot published by the page “Women’s Rights News” contributed the buzz:  The image originated with a 15 January 2016 interview between YouTube personality Ingrid Nilsen and President Barack Obama.
 NYMag.com published an article on 29 April 2016 that explored social media interest in the tampon tax: Pads and tampons have made political headlines in every single month of this year.
 In January, lawmakers in California, Utah, Virginia, and Michigan introduced anti-tampon-tax bills.
 They were mostly sponsored by women (shout out to Delegate Mark Keam in Virginia, though!).
 Notably, in each of those states, except California, the mostly Democratic sponsors are vastly outnumbered in their Republican-heavy legislatures.
 Also in January, the tampon tax made headlines when Obama learned about it while the camera was rolling, and declared he thought the tax was unfair.
 Then, in February, similar bills were introduced in Illinois, Wisconsin, and New York.
 In March, the city of Chicago dropped its tampon tax, and a class-action lawsuit brought by women in Ohio and New York state added pressure to stop taxing periods.
 In April, the New York Senate unanimously passed the tampon tax bill.
 This is an astounding amount of national legislative momentum for an issue that was long considered to be women’s private, shameful burden.
 It’s no coincidence that efforts to end the tampon tax have cropped up alongside viral art projects, new businesses, and digital campaigns to destigmatize menstruation.
 The tampon tax is the perfect of-the-moment issue for lawmakers who want to signal their support for women — and take a stance on inequality.
 Ending the tax, which promises practical benefits for low-income women, is low-hanging fruit for legislators in liberal states.
 A widely circulated June 2015 map created by Fusion illustrated the tampon tax with color coding.
 Most states taxed feminine hygiene products, except a few that had either specific exemptions or no sales tax at all:  Minnesota, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Massachusetts, and Maryland specifically did not tax [PDF] feminine hygiene products.
 Alaska, Oregon, Montana, New Hampshire, and Delaware do not have sales tax on any items (including tampons).
 The rest of the states maintained a tax on such products.
 One outlier was the state of New York, which moved in April 2016 to abolish the tax: The Republican-led Senate on Monday unanimously passed a bill exempting feminine hygiene products from sales tax, two months after the debate over the so-called tampon tax reached Albany.
 The bill, sponsored by freshman Sen. Sue Serino, a Republican from Hyde Park, passed with 58 votes.
 The vote on the Senate floor took about one minute, just enough time for at least one period joke.
 “It is a way of providing some tax relief to women everywhere, young girls in particular,” Sen. Diane Savino said, thanking the bill sponsor.
 “But on behalf of women of a certain age everywhere, I would love to offer a friendly amendment and ask for a rebate program, Senator Serino.
 But I know it would probably bankrupt the state.”  Lawmakers in Michigan expressed interest in advancing a similar initiative, and the city of Chicago (but not the state of Illinois) axed the tax.
 On 12 April 2016, MarketWatch reported some momentum both in and outside the U.S. to end the additional charges: The issue has made it onto the agenda in about 10 states, seven of which introduced the legislation, including New York (though Utah’s never made it out of committee) and three, South Carolina, Tennessee and Illinois, that recently debated it.
 It has also gone international, with France cutting the sales tax in late 2015 and the European Union taking a stance on the issue this year.
 In May 2016, the majority of the 40 states with a tampon tax retained it (although New York was on its way to tax-free status for feminine hygiene products).
 By and large, social media tampon tax claims were accurate.
 To be clear, tampons weren’t taxed at a special or higher rate than other taxable items — they simply were subject to sales tax in general.
 Snopes.com   Since 1994     Help Supercharge Snopes For 2020  				We have big plans.
 We need your help.
 Become a member!
 Published 9 May 2016   By   Kim LaCapria     Filed Under   taxes       Sources        Coughlin, Sarah.
 “Chicago Removes Its Tampon Tax —&amp; The State Of New York Is On Its Way To Doing The Same.” Refinery29.
 13 April 2016.
 Court, Emma.
 “New York Is The Latest State To Scrap Tampon Tax.” MarketWatch.
 12 April 2016.
 Friedman, Ann.
 “How Ending The Tampon Tax Became Viral Legislation.” NYMag The Cut.
 29 April 2016.
 Hillin, Taryn.
 “These Are The U.S. States That Tax Women For Having Periods.” Fusion.
 3 June 2015.
 Larimer, Sarah.
 “The ‘Tampon tax,’ Explained.” Washington Post.
 8 January 2016.
 Miller, Faith.
 “Why Two Senators Want To Get Rid Of Michigan’s ‘Tampon Tax.
 '” WILX.
 14 April 2016.
 Velasquez, Josefa.
 “Senate Unanimously Passes Bill Eliminating ‘Tampon Tax.
 '” Politico New York.
 11 April 2016.                  				smg.ads.load( 'post-footer-1' ); 			    Editors' Picks         Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 Did DHS Secretly Watermark Ballots in an Election Fraud Sting Against Dems?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Discussing election mechanics is easier when you actually know how elections work.
 Can State Legislatures Override the Choice of Presidential Electors?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   The electoral college is a unique system for indirectly electing the president of the United States.
 Has Starbucks Sold a ‘Christmas Blend’ Since 1984?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Since at least 2015, the popular coffee chain has faced accusations of being "anti-Christmas."
 Snopes Fact-Checks the 2020 US Election, Live    															5 November 2020													  							Collections						   Lies don't wait — and neither does Snopes.
 14 August 2020													  							Fact Check						   Harris long ago distanced herself from the relationship.
 Did DHS Secretly Watermark Ballots in an Election Fraud Sting Against Dems?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Discussing election mechanics is easier when you actually know how elections work.
 Does Your Food Contain Beaver Anal Secretions?
 5 February 2013													  							Fact Check						   Alarmist warnings about beaver-derived castoreum are overblown: its use is now exceedingly rare, and the typical consumer is unlikely to ever encounter castoreum in food.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 Was a Pornhub Logo Accidentally Displayed on CNN?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   This video has racked up more than 7 million views.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			     Snopes.com needs your help.Become a member today.
 Learn How          				smg.ads.load( 'side-3' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 See the whole collection.
 Support Us       					You rely on Snopes, and we rely on you.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
