Skip to main content      U.S. Department of Health &amp; Human Services            Search the NIH Website    NIH Employee Intranet Staff Directory En Español       Site Menu     Home    Health Information    Health Info Lines Find Health Services HealthCare.gov NIH Clinical Research Trials and You Talking to Your Doctor Science Education Resources Community Resources Clear Health A–Z Publications List  More »    Search Health Topics         Quick Links  MedlinePlus Health Info NIH News in Health Wellness Toolkits       Grants &amp; Funding    Grants Home Page Find Funding Due Dates How to Apply About Grants Policy &amp; Compliance Grants News/Blog Contracts Loan Repayment  More »    Search the NIH Guide         Quick Links  RePORT eRA Commons NIH Common Fund       News &amp; Events    News Releases Digital Media Kits Media Resources Media Contacts Images and B-roll Events Social Media  More »   Quick Links  NIH News in Health NIH Research Matters NIH Record       Research &amp; Training    Medical Research Initiatives Science Highlights Science Education Research in NIH Labs &amp; Clinics Training Opportunities Library Resources Research Resources Clinical Research Resources Safety, Regulation and Guidance  More »   Quick Links  PubMed Stem Cell Information OppNet NIDB NIH Blueprint for Neuroscience Research       Institutes at NIH    List of Institutes, Centers &amp; Offices NIH Office of the Director Directors of NIH Institutes and Centers NIH Institute and Center Contact Information  More »   Quick Links  NCI NEI NHLBI NHGRI NIA NIAAA NIAID NIAMS NIBIB NICHD NIDCD NIDCR NIDDK NIDA NIEHS NIGMS NIMH NIMHD NINDS NINR NLM CC CIT CSR FIC NCATS NCCIH OD       About NIH    Who We Are What We Do Jobs at NIH Visitor Information Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us   More »   Quick Links  The NIH Director The NIH Almanac NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health® Impact of NIH Research Science, Health, and Public Trust                    COVID-19 is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation.
 Get the latest public health information from CDC » Get the latest research information from NIH » NIH staff guidance on coronavirus (NIH Only) »       You are hereHome » News &amp; Events » News Releases    News Releases        News ReleaseMonday, March 16, 2020NIH clinical trial of investigational vaccine for COVID-19 begins 
 Study enrolling Seattle-based healthy adult volunteers.
 The spike protein (foreground) enables the virus to enter and infect human cells.
 On the virus model, the virus surface (blue) is covered with spike proteins (red) that enable the virus to enter and infect human cells.
 For more information, visit NIH A Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating an investigational vaccine designed to protect against coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has begun at Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research Institute (KPWHRI) in Seattle.
 The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), part of the National Institutes of Health, is funding the trial.
 KPWHRI is part of NIAID’s Infectious Diseases Clinical Research Consortium.
 The open-label trial will enroll 45 healthy adult volunteers ages 18 to 55 years over approximately 6 weeks.
 The first participant received the investigational vaccine today.
 The study is evaluating different doses of the experimental vaccine for safety and its ability to induce an immune response in participants.
 This is the first of multiple steps in the clinical trial process for evaluating the potential benefit of the vaccine.
 The vaccine is called mRNA-1273 and was developed by NIAID scientists and their collaborators at the biotechnology company Moderna, Inc., based in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
 The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) supported the manufacturing of the vaccine candidate for the Phase 1 clinical trial.
 “Finding a safe and effective vaccine to prevent infection with SARS-CoV-2 is an urgent public health priority,” said NIAID Director Anthony S. Fauci, M.D.
 “This Phase 1 study, launched in record speed, is an important first step toward achieving that goal.” Infection with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, can cause a mild to severe respiratory illness and include symptoms of fever, cough and shortness of breath.
 COVID-19 cases were first identified in December 2019 in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China.
 As of March 15, 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) has reported 153,517 cases of COVID-19 and 5,735 deaths worldwide.
 More than 2,800 confirmed COVID-19 cases and 58 deaths have been reported in the United States as of March 15, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
 Currently, no approved vaccines exist to prevent infection with SARS-CoV-2.
 The investigational vaccine was developed using a genetic platform called mRNA (messenger RNA).
 The investigational vaccine directs the body’s cells to express a virus protein that it is hoped will elicit a robust immune response.
 The mRNA-1273 vaccine has shown promise in animal models, and this is the first trial to examine it in humans.
 Scientists at NIAID’s Vaccine Research Center (VRC) and Moderna were able to quickly develop mRNA-1273 because of prior studies of related coronaviruses that cause severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS).
 Coronaviruses are spherical and have spikes protruding from their surface, giving the particles a crown-like appearance.
 The spike binds to human cells, allowing the virus to gain entry.
 VRC and Moderna scientists already were working on an investigational MERS vaccine targeting the spike, which provided a head start for developing a vaccine candidate to protect against COVID-19.
 Once the genetic information of SARS-CoV-2 became available, the scientists quickly selected a sequence to express the stabilized spike protein of the virus in the existing mRNA platform.
 The Phase 1 trial is led by Lisa A. Jackson, M.D., senior investigator at KPWHRI.
 Study participants will receive two doses of the vaccine via intramuscular injection in the upper arm approximately 28 days apart.
 Each participant will be assigned to receive a 25 microgram (mcg), 100 mcg or 250 mcg dose at both vaccinations, with 15 people in each dose cohort.
 The first four participants will receive one injection with the low dose, and the next four participants will receive the 100 mcg dose.
 Investigators will review safety data before vaccinating the remaining participants in the 25 and 100 mcg dose groups and before participants receive their second vaccinations.
 Another safety review will be done before participants are enrolled in the 250 mcg cohort.
 Participants will be asked to return to the clinic for follow-up visits between vaccinations and for additional visits across the span of a year after the second shot.
 Clinicians will monitor participants for common vaccination symptoms, such as soreness at the injection site or fever as well as any other medical issues.
 A protocol team will meet regularly to review safety data, and a safety monitoring committee will also periodically review trial data and advise NIAID.
 Participants also will be asked to provide blood samples at specified time points, which investigators will test in the laboratory to detect and measure the immune response to the experimental vaccine.
 “This work is critical to national efforts to respond to the threat of this emerging virus,” Dr. Jackson said.
 “We are prepared to conduct this important trial because of our experience as an NIH clinical trials center since 2007.” Adults in the Seattle area who are interested in joining this study should visit https://corona.kpwashingtonresearch.org.
 For more information about the study, visit ClinicalTrials.gov and search identifier NCT04283461.
 NIAID conducts and supports research — at NIH, throughout the United States, and worldwide — to study the causes of infectious and immune-mediated diseases, and to develop better means of preventing, diagnosing and treating these illnesses.
 News releases, fact sheets and other NIAID-related materials are available on the NIAID website.About the National Institutes of Health (NIH):
 NIH, the nation's medical research agency, includes 27 Institutes and Centers and is a component of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
 NIH is the primary federal agency conducting and supporting basic, clinical, and translational medical research, and is investigating the causes, treatments, and cures for both common and rare diseases.
 For more information about NIH and its programs, visit www.nih.gov.
 NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health® NoteAdults in the Seattle area who are interested in joining this study should visit https://corona.kpwashingtonresearch.org/.
 People who live outside of this region will not be eligible to participate in this trial.
 ###        Institute/CenterNational Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID)Contact  Jennifer Routh    301-402-1663      Connect with Us   Subscribe to news releases RSS Feed        Connect with Us  Contact Us Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Flickr More Social Media from NIH        Footer  NIH Home En Español Site Map Visitor Information Frequently Asked Questions Web Policies and Notices   Freedom of Information Act No Fear Act Office of Inspector General USA.gov – Government Made Easy  NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health® National Institutes of Health, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, Maryland 20892 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services   Back to Top
