Articles  Global research U.S. research Policy analysis Guttmacher Policy Review Op-eds &amp; external blogs    Fact Sheets  Global U.S. U.S. State Laws and Policies    Data &amp; Visualizations  Data center Infographics    Peer-Reviewed Journals  International Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health     Topics    Global  Abortion Contraception HIV &amp; STIs Pregnancy Teens    U.S.
 Abortion Contraception HIV &amp; STIs Pregnancy Teens     Regions    Our Work By Geography  Global Asia Latin America &amp; the Caribbean Sub-Saharan Africa United States Explore our partnerships     About    Who We Are  About us Staff Board Partnerships Job opportunities History Contact    Media  Media office News releases    Support Our Work  Make a gift today Monthly Giving Circle Guttmacher Guardians Donate stock or securites Guttmacher Legacy Circle Financials Annual Report    Awards and Scholarships  Darroch Award Richards Scholarship         Search form                Good reproductive health policy starts with credible research       Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Email                    Good reproductive health policy starts with credible research        Donate Now  Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Email        Our work     Highlights  COVID-19 impact Adding It Up Guttmacher-Lancet Commission U.S. policy resources State policy resources State legislation tracker        Reports  Global U.S.
 Articles  Global research U.S. research Policy analysis Guttmacher Policy Review Op-eds &amp; external blogs    Fact Sheets  Global U.S. U.S. State Laws and Policies    Data &amp; Visualizations  Data center Infographics    Peer-Reviewed Journals  International Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health        Topics    Global  Abortion Contraception HIV &amp; STIs Pregnancy Teens    U.S.
 Abortion Contraception HIV &amp; STIs Pregnancy Teens       Regions    Our Work By Geography  Global Asia Latin America &amp; the Caribbean Sub-Saharan Africa United States Explore our partnerships       About    Who We Are  About us Staff Board Partnerships Job opportunities History Contact    Media  Media office News releases    Support Our Work  Make a gift today Monthly Giving Circle Guttmacher Guardians Donate stock or securites Guttmacher Legacy Circle Financials Annual Report    Awards and Scholarships  Darroch Award Richards Scholarship          Search form                    As of November 1, 2020 State Laws and Policies  An Overview of Consent to Reproductive Health Services by Young People     Background The ability of people younger than 18 (generally, the legal definition of a minor) to consent to a range of sensitive health care services—including sexual and reproductive health care, mental health services, and alcohol and drug abuse treatment—has expanded dramatically over the past several decades.
 This trend reflects the recognition that, while involving parents or guardians in young people’s health care decisions is desirable, many young people will not avail themselves of important services if they are forced to involve their parents.
 With regard to sexual and reproductive health care, many states explicitly permit all or some people younger than 18 to obtain contraceptive, prenatal and STI services without parental involvement.
 Moreover, nearly every state permits parents younger than 18 to make important decisions regarding their children.
 In sharp contrast, a majority of states require parental involvement before a legal minor can obtain an abortion.
 Notably for access to contraceptives for those younger than 18, the U.S. Supreme Court specifically affirmed their right to access contraceptives in the 1977 decision Carey v. Population Services International.
 No state has enacted a blanket requirement that individuals must obtain parental consent for contraceptive services.
 For laws related to HIV and other STI services, pregnancy care, adoption or medical care for a child, state consent laws apply to all individuals aged 12 through 17.
 In some cases, however, states allow only certain groups of young people—such as those who are married, pregnant or already parents—to consent.
 Several states have no relevant policy or case law; in these states, physicians commonly provide medical care without parental consent to individuals younger than 18 they deem mature, particularly if the state allows minors to consent to related services.
 The following chart tracks seven areas in which state laws can affect a young person’s right to consent.
 For further information on each issue, click on the column heading.
 Further information on these issues can be obtained by clicking on the column headings.
 Highlights  27 states and the District of Columbia explicitly allow all individuals to consent to contraceptive services or those at a specified age (such as 12 or 14) and older to consent to such care.
 19 states allow only certain categories of people younger than 18 to consent to contraceptive services.
 4 states have no explicit policy or relevant case law.
 STI services:  All states and DC allow young people to consent to STI services.
 39 states and DC allow all individuals, regardless of age, to consent to STI and HIV services, while the remaining states allow certain categories of young people or those at a specified age (such as 12 or 14) and older to consent to such care.
 18 states allow, but do not require, a physician to inform a young person’s parents that he or she is seeking or receiving STI services when the doctor deems it in the patient’s best interests.
 Prenatal care:  33 states and DC explicitly allow all individuals younger than 18 to consent to prenatal care.
 14 of these states allow, but do not require, a physician to inform parents that their child is seeking or receiving prenatal care when the doctor deems it in the young person’s best interest to do so.
 North Dakota allows young people to consent to prenatal care during the first trimester and requires parental consent for most care during the second and third trimesters.
 4 states allow young people who can be considered “mature” to consent to receive care.
 13 states have no explicit policy or relevant case law.
 Adoption:  28 states and the District of Columbia allow all parents, regardless of age, to choose to place their child for adoption.
 5 states require the parent of a minor consenting to an adoption to be notified before the adoption takes place or to consent to the adoption.
 5 states require the involvement of legal counsel or a guardian ad litem.
 12 states have no explicit policy or relevant case law.
 Medical care for a child:  30 states and the District of Columbia allow all parents, regardless of age, to consent to medical care for their child.
 20 states have no explicit policy or relevant case law.
 Abortion:  2 states and the District of Columbia explicitly allow all individuals to consent to abortion services, regardless of age.
 21 states require that at least one parent provide consent before a patient younger than 18 can obtain an abortion, while 10 states require prior notification of at least one parent.
 6 states require both notification of and consent from a parent before a minor’s abortion.
 6 states have parental involvement laws that are temporarily or permanently enjoined.
 5 states have no explicit policy or relevant case law.
 Printer-friendly version     For more information     Public Policy Office 202 296-4012 [email protected]          TopicUnited StatesAbortion: State Policies on AbortionContraception: State Policies on ContraceptionHIV &amp; STIs: STATE POLICIES ON HIV &amp; STIsPregnancy: State Policies on PregnancyTeens: State Policies on Teens GeographyUnited States: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming   Related Content   Policy Analysis  What Is Behind the Declines in Teen Pregnancy Rates?
 Guttmacher Policy Review      Monthly State Policy Updates  Get an overview of state legislative and policy activity in all topics of sexual and reproductive health.
 Learn More          /*--&gt; */        					People Younger Than 18 May Consent To:     STATE   CONTRACEPTIVE SERVICES   STI SERVICES   PRENATAL CARE   ADOPTION   MEDICAL CARE FOR MINOR'S CHILD   ABORTION SERVICES     Alabama   All†​   All*   All   All   All   Parental Consent     Alaska   All   All   All       All   ▼ (Parental Notice)     Arizona   All   All       All       Parental Consent     Arkansas   All   All*   All       All   Parental Consent     California   All   All   All   All       ▼ (Parental Consent)     Colorado   All   All   All   All   All   Parental Notice     Connecticut   Some   All       Legal counsel   All   All     Delaware   All*   All*   All*   All   All   Parental Notice‡​     Dist.
 of Columbia   All   All   All   All   All   All     Florida   Some   All   All       All   Parental Consent and Notice     Georgia   All   All*   All   All   All   Parental Notice     Hawaii   All*,†​   All*,†   All*,†   All             Idaho   All   All†   All   All   All   Parental Consent     Illinois   Some   All*   All   All   All   Parental Notice     Indiana   Some   All       All       Parental Consent     Iowa   All   All               Parental Notice     Kansas   Some   All*   Some   All   All   Parental Consent     Kentucky   All*   All*   All*   Legal counsel   All   Parental Consent     Louisiana   Some   All*       Parental consent   All   Parental Consent     Maine   All*   All*   All*           All     Maryland   All*   All*   All*   All   All   Parental Notice     Massachusetts   All   All   All       All   Parental Consent     Michigan   Some   All*   All*   Parental consent   All   Parental Consent     Minnesota   All*   All*   All*   Parental consent   All   Parental Notice     Mississippi   Some   All   All   All   All   Parental Consent     Missouri   Some   All*   All*   Legal counsel   All   Parental Consent     Montana   All*   All*   All*   Legal counsel   All   ▼ (Parental Consent)     Nebraska   Some   All               Parental Consent     Nevada   Some   All   Some   All   All   ▼ (Parental Notice)     New Hampshire   Some   All†   Some   AllΩ​       Parental Notice     New Jersey   Some†​   All*,β   All*   All   All   ▼ (Parental Notice)     New Mexico   All   All   All   All       ▼ (Parental Consent)     New York   All   All   All   All   All         North Carolina   All   All   All           Parental Consent     North Dakota       All†   ξ*   All       Parental Consent     Ohio       All       All       Parental Consent     Oklahoma   Some   All*   All*   All†​   All   Parental Consent and Notice     Oregon   All*   All   All*,‡                 Pennsylvania   All†​   All   All   Parental notice   All   Parental Consent     Rhode Island       All       Parental consent   All   Parental Consent     South Carolina   All   All   All   All   All   Parental Consent‡​     South Dakota   Some   All               Parental Notice     Tennessee   All   All   All   All   All   Parental Consent     Texas   Some   All*   All*           Parental Consent and Notice     Utah   Some   All   All   All   All   Parental Consent and Notice     Vermont   Some   All       All             Virginia   All   All   All   All   All   Parental Consent and Notice     Washington   All   All†​   All   Legal counsel             West Virginia   Some   All   Some   All       Parental Notice     Wisconsin       All               Parental Consent     Wyoming   All   All       All       Parental Consent and Notice     TOTAL   27+DC   50+DC   33+DC   28+DC   30+DC   2+DC     Notes: "All" applies to all individuals or to those at a specified age (such as 12 or 14) and older.
 “Some” applies to specified categories of young people (those who have a health issue, or are married, pregnant, considered mature).
 Totals include only those states that allow all individuals to consent.
 ▼ Permanently enjoined by court order; law not in effect.
 *   Physicians may, but are not required to, inform the young person’s parents.
 †   Applies to individuals 14 and older.
 Hawaii allows individuals aged 14 and older to consent to STI care and allows all individuals, regardless of age, to consent to HIV/AIDS care.
 ‡   Delaware’s abortion law applies to women younger than 16.
 Oregon’s prenatal care law applies to women at least 15 years old.
 South Carolina’s abortion law applies to those younger than 17.
 Ω  A court may require parental consent.
 β   New Jersey allows all individuals, regardless of age, to consent to STI care and allows individuals aged 13 or older to consent to HIV/AIDS care.
 ξ   Individuals younger than 18 may consent to prenatal care in the first trimester and the first visit after the first trimester.
 Parental consent required for all other visits.
 Get updates on policy issues and more   E-mail Address                                Reproductive rights are under attack.
 Will you help us fight back with facts?
 Donate Now            Follow Guttmacher: Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn   Footer Menu  Privacy Policy         © 2020 Guttmacher Institute.
 The Guttmacher Institute is registered as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization under the tax identification number 13-2890727.
 Contributions are tax deductible to the fullest extent allowable.
