document.body.className + ' js-enabled' : 'js-enabled');   Skip to main content        Tell us whether you accept cookies We use cookies to collect information about how you use GOV.UK.
 We use this information to make the website work as well as possible and improve government services.
 Accept all cookies   Set cookie preferences       You’ve accepted all cookies.
 You can change your cookie settings at any time.
 Hide                     GOV.UK         Show or hide search      Search on GOV.UK      Search                         Coronavirus (COVID-19)         National restrictions in England from 5 November              The UK and EU transition         Take action now for new rules in 2021             Home   Passports, travel and living abroad   Living abroad           Countries in the EU and EEA         The European Union (EU) is an economic and political union of 27 countries.
 It operates an internal (or single) market which allows free movement of goods, capital, services and people between member states.
 EU countries The EU countries are: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Republic of Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain and Sweden.
 The European Economic Area (EEA) The EEA includes EU countries and also Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway.
 It allows them to be part of the EU’s single market.
 Switzerland is not an EU or EEA member but is part of the single market.
 This means Swiss nationals have the same rights to live and work in the UK as other EEA nationals.
 Citizens’ rights after the UK leaves the EU  There will be no change to the rights and status of EU citizens currently living in the UK until 30 June 2021.
 You can read about the rights and status of UK nationals living in the EU after the UK leaves the EU.
 Related content      Work in an EU country Exporting and doing business abroad Starting to import            Explore the topic  Living abroad EU, EEA and Commonwealth citizens           Is this page useful?
 Maybe         Yes this page is useful        No this page is not useful       Thank you for your feedback       There is something wrong with this page        Close       Help us improve GOV.UK Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
 What were you doing?
 What went wrong?
 Send       Close        Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
 We’ll send you a link to a feedback form.
 It will take only 2 minutes to fill in.
 Don’t worry we won’t send you spam or share your email address with anyone.
 It operates an internal (or single) market which allows free movement of goods, capital, services and people between member states.
 It allows them to be part of the EU ’s single market.
 \n\n Switzerland is not an EU or EEA member but is part of the single market.
 This means Swiss nationals have the same rights to live and work in the UK as other EEA nationals.
 \n\n You can read about the rights and status of UK nationals living in the EU after the UK leaves the EU .
