By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
 Find out more.
 My Profile    Sign in here to access free tools such as favourites and alerts, or to access personal subscriptions               The email address and/or password entered does not match our records, please check and try again.
 New login is not successful because the max limit of logins for this user account has been reached.
 Email (required)    Password (required)    Remember me     Forgotten your password?
 Find out about Lean Library here       I am signed in via:       Imperial College London Library          Research off-campus without worrying about access issues.
 Society     If you have access to journal via a society or associations, read the instructions below      Members of _ can log in with their society credentials below      Username (required)      Password (required)      Society (required)   The Int Society for Research on Emotion American College of Veterinary Pathologists           Login failed.
 Please check you selected the correct society from the list and entered the user name and password you use to log in to your society website.
 If you have access to a journal via a society or association membership, please browse to your society journal, select an article to view, and follow the instructions in this box.
 Contact us if you experience any difficulty logging in.
 This product could help you Accessing resources off campus can be a challenge.
 Simply select your manager software from the list below and click on download.
 Simply select your manager software from the list below and click on download.
 Format      RIS (ProCite, Reference Manager)EndNoteBibTeXMedlarsRefWorks       Tips on citation download    Download Citation         Download article citation data for:  The Adam Walsh Act Naomi J. Freeman and Jeffrey C. Sandler Criminal Justice Policy Review 2009 21:1, 31-49                        Share             Share            Social Media   Email   Share Access         Share this article via social media.
 Recommend to a friend     Email a link to the following content:     *Recipient's Email Address:     *Your Email:     Your Name:     *Subject:     Send me a copy of this email      Retype the code from the picture:       
  // 
   
  // 
               The e-mail addresses that you supply to use this service will not be used for any other purpose without your consent.
 For more information view the SAGE Journals Article Sharing page.
 Create a link to share a read only version of this article with your colleagues and friends.
 For more information view the SAGE Journals Sharing page.
 Please read and accept the terms and conditions and check the box to generate a sharing link.
 Need to activate?
 Need Help?
 Chinese Institutions / 中国用户  Click the button below for the full-text content 请点击以下获取该全文  Click here to view / 点击获取全文    Need Help?
 Register            Purchase     CJP-article-ppv for $37.50      Single Issue 24 hour E-access for $648.33                                         Article available in:                Vol 21, Issue 1, 2010                             showDfpAd(1)      Related Articles        Similar Articles:  Similar Articles:  View all &gt;        Female Sex Offender Recidivism: A Large-Scale Empirical Analysis         Jeffrey C. Sandler   and more...
 By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
 Find out more.
