Jump to main content   An official website of the United States government.
 US EPA   United States Environmental Protection Agency     Search  Search            Main menuEnvironmental TopicsAir Bed Bugs Chemicals and Toxics Environmental Information by Location Greener Living Health Land, Waste, and Cleanup Lead Mold Pesticides Radon Science Water A-Z Topic Index  Laws &amp; RegulationsBy Business Sector By Topic Compliance Enforcement Laws and Executive Orders Guidance Regulations  About EPAEPA Administrator Current Leadership Organization Chart Staff Directory Planning, Budget and Results Jobs and Internships Headquarters Offices Regional Offices Labs and Research Centers         Related Topics:    Interstate Air Pollution Transport   Clean Air Markets      Contact Us   Share                            Interstate Air Pollution Transport       What's New  On September 5, 2019, EPA announced its intent to make findings that certain states have failed to submit interstate transport state implementation plans for the 2015 ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards.
 The EPA intends to issue these findings by November 22, 2019.
 The total pollution in any area forms from the combination of local and upwind sources.
 Air transport refers to pollution from upwind emission sources that impact air quality in a given location downwind.
 Emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOX) can each undergo chemical reactions  in the atmosphere to form fine particle (soot) pollution.
 Similarly, NOX emissions can react in the atmosphere to create ground-level ozone (smog) pollution.
 These pollutants can travel great distances affecting air quality and public health regionally.
 The transport of these pollutants across state borders, referred to as interstate air pollution transport, makes it difficult for downwind states to meet health-based air quality standards for PM2.5 and ozone.
 The "Good Neighbor" Provision The Clean Air Act's "good neighbor" provision requires EPA and states to address interstate transport of air pollution that affects downwind states' ability to attain and maintain National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS).
 Specifically, Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) requires each state in its State Implementation Plan (SIP) to prohibit emissions that will significantly contribute to nonattainment of a NAAQS, or interfere with maintenance of a NAAQS, in a downwind state.
 The Act requires EPA to backstop state actions by promulgating Federal Implementation Plans (FIPs) in the event that a state fails to submit or EPA disapproves good neighbor SIPs.
 EPA's Actions Under The "Good Neighbor" Provision Rulemakings Revised Cross-State Air Pollution Rule Update Cross-State Air Pollution Rule Close-Out (December 2018) Cross-State Air Pollution Rule Update (2017 - present, updates the CSAPR ozone season NOX program) Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (2015-present) Clean Air Interstate Rule (2009-2014) NOX Budget Trading Program (2003-2008) Memos and Notices Memo and Supplemental Information Regarding Interstate Transport SIPs for the 2015 Ozone NAAQS 2015 Ozone NAAQS (Notice of Data Availability - Preliminary Interstate Ozone Transport Modeling Data for the 2015 Ozone NAAQS) (signed December 2016)     Contact Us to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.
 Discover.
 Accessibility EPA Administrator Budget &amp; Performance Contracting Grants January 19, 2017 Web Snapshot No FEAR Act Data Privacy Privacy and Security Notice    Connect.
 Data.gov Inspector General Jobs Newsroom Open Government Regulations.gov Subscribe USA.gov White House    Ask.
 Contact EPA Hotlines FOIA Requests Frequent Questions  Follow.
 EPA's Facebook EPA's Twitter EPA's YouTube EPA's Flickr EPA's Instagram  Last updated on October 15, 2020
