Our policy on articles on living people is under review.
 Your comments and inputs are welcome on the relevant project talkpage.
 Nominations and campaigning for the RationalWiki 2020 Moderator Election is underway and will end on November 23.
 Cherry picking  From RationalWiki   					Jump to:					navigation, 					search     Cogito ergo sumLogic and rhetoric      Key articles    Logical fallacy Syllogism Argument   General logic    Correlation does not imply causation Hypocrisy Linking to authority Motte and bailey Paradox Uncertainty tactic   Bad logic    Appeal to shame Argument from authority Circular reasoning Ham Hightail Negative evidence Red-baiting v - t - e    “”If anyone lists a dozen defeats in which the losing side attacked with divided columns, I can list a dozen victories in which that very tactic was employed.
 Original in German:    Wer uns ein Dutzend verlorene Schlachten nennt, in welchen der Geschlagene in getrennten Kolonnen angriff, dem können wir ein Dutzend gewonnene nennen, wo eben diese Ordnung gebraucht wurde.
 —Carl von Clausewitz, On War, Book Two, Chapter VI[1][2]  Cherry picking, when used figuratively, refers to selective extraction of points in an argument in order to refute or affirm them while ignoring others which will not support the point(s) being made.
 It derives from the obvious reluctance to harvest unripe, or overripe, fruit and to select only those which will make profit (or pie).
 Often, cherry-picked factoids or references will be over-extrapolated and oversold to give the impression that they are representative, when they are not.
 Cherry-picking is more a deliberate act of deception than a logical fallacy, but nevertheless an extremely common tactic.
 Much of cherry picking is anecdotal evidence, because it only uses one or two examples to make a point; statistical cherry-picking essentially uses larger-scale anecdotes, by ignoring the broader evidence on an issue.
 Contents  1 Alternate names 2 Explanation  2.1 Occam's broom   3 Examples  3.1 Religion 3.2 Pseudohistory 3.3 Pharmaceutical industry 3.4 Automotive industry 3.5 Conspiracy theories   4 Demarcation 5 See also 6 External links 7 Notes 8 References   Alternate names[edit]  argument by selective observation argument by half-truth card stacking confirmation bias coverup (in the form of denialism) fallacy of incomplete evidence fallacy of exclusion fallacy of slanting ignoring counterevidence incomplete/concealed/suppressed evidence observational selection Occam's broom one-sided argument selective use of evidence
