What comes after his apparent fall?
 hddn-mble hddn-tbl":"";    The family of a 16-year-old Wheeling High School student who died earlier this month expressed frustration this week, saying that the teen was not properly treated prior to his death.
 Zach Leviton, 16, of Wheeling, died April 13 at Advocate Lutheran General Hospital in Park Ridge, according to the Cook County medical examiner’s office.
 An autopsy was conducted, but the cause and manner of death have yet to be determined, said spokeswoman Natalia Derevyanny.
 Zach Leviton, 16, of Wheeling, shown in a 2018 photo.
 (Pam Jelaca/HANDOUT)  It’s unknown whether his death was related to COVID-19, but a week after his death, he was not among the known Cook County deaths related to COVID-19.
 Officials with Township High School District 214 declined to comment on whether Leviton was the teen whose death was announced in a Saturday email from district Superintendent David Schuler, informing parents that a student had died, likely from complications of COVID-19, and that a second student was hospitalized with the virus.
 Officials did not name the school or schools attended by these students, but Wheeling High School is one of the district’s schools.
 But Leviton’s mother, Julie Leviton, said Schuler was referencing her son in his email, although her son was tested for COVID-19 and the test came back negative.
 She said the “medical community thinks COVID-19 is a possibility,” but she reiterated that it remains unknown until autopsy results are released.
 “Zach tested negative for it but myself and his dad think it’s a (different) strain of COVID and maybe doesn’t register on these test kits,” she wrote in a message.
 “All arrows point to that.”  She also said she believes concerns in the health care system about coronavirus hindered her ability to get treatment for her son.
 “I want answers about what happened to him,” Julie Leviton said.
 “A perfectly healthy child just up and has some weird little symptoms.
 And in 24 hours he’s gone.”  Julie Leviton said she first tried to get an appointment with her son’s primary care doctor about three weeks ago after he threw up and “complained of some lightheadedness, felt a little more tired,” she said.
 The receptionist told her that her son could not be seen because it was possible he had COVID-19.
 Leviton says the receptionist didn’t offer any alternatives or suggest what the family should do.
 “Why don’t they say, ‘We highly recommend you take them to urgent care,’ so at least that’s in my mind?” Julie Leviton said.
 “I’m kind of stuck with no good options because the message is to stay away from the hospitals unless you can’t breathe."
 According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as of April 2, about 1.7% of COVID-19 cases had occurred in children younger than 18.
 Among all the reported COVID-19 cases in children younger than 18, nearly one-third occurred in children 15 to 17 years old, with 27% in children 10 to 14 years old, according to the CDC.
 Leviton said she wondered at times whether her son’s condition was psychological, because he’d been lethargic and a little more withdrawn, including no longer playing video games online with his friends.
 “I thought he was having anxiety because his world’s turned upside down,” she said.
 “The way he’s acting it seems to me, that yeah, that he’s having a hard time.
 He’s anxious, he doesn’t know what this virus thing is and everybody’s life is turned upside down.
 And I’m not thinking that he’s sick, I’m thinking this is psychological.”  Still, she said, she thought he needed to see a doctor and she wasn’t able to arrange a visit because she thought she was supposed to keep him away from the hospital unless he was in distress.
 "I want him seen, but I don’t want him catching a virus.
 So I’m kind of at a loss here,” she said.
 Alex Jelaca, one of Zach’s friends, said Tuesday that it was “hard to put into words how much Zach meant to so many people.”  “I think that’s why this is so hard to process and understand, because it’s impossible to see why one of the few people capable of spreading such happiness would be taken from us so soon,” Alex added.
