In the program file, scroll down and find my presentation abstract from the conference.
 This is a public document.
 Let me know if you have questions.
 I've attached a short power-point with lots of facts.10:18 a.m.March 10, 2017Forgot but the study director submitted the manuscript to the Wildlife Society Bulletin, which is a publication of the Journal of Wildlife Management.
 You have a published abstract from the Wild Pig Conference.
 We can send you a copy of the manuscript after it is published.
 Until then it is CBI, otherwise we have no control of where it ends up.On Fri, Mar 10, 2017 at 9:20 AM, Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin) wrote:Who are the authors of the study and what is its title?10:27 a.m.Title is below from editor.
 Authors are Greg Franckowiak, Lindsay Briley, Daniel Somers, Larisa Polyakova, Batchimeg Tseveenjav, Gates Lane, Daniel Hartman, David Poche, and Richard Poche  From: Richard Poché Sent: Friday, March 10, 2017 10:18 AMSubject: Fwd: Journal of Wildlife Management and Wildlife Monographs - Decision on Manuscript ID JWM-16-0394 [email ref: DL-SW-5-a] Forgot but the study director submitted the manuscript to the Wildlife Society Bulletin, which is a publication of the Journal of Wildlife Management.
 You have a published abstract from the Wild Pig Conference.
 We can send you a copy of the manuscript after it is published.
 Until then it is CBI, otherwise we have no control of where it ends up.
 ---------- Forwarded message ----------From: Greg FranckowiakDate: Fri, Jan 6, 2017 at 12:22 PMSubject: Fwd: Journal of Wildlife Management and Wildlife Monographs - Decision on Manuscript ID JWM-16-0394 [email ref: DL-SW-5-a]To: Richard Poché ---------- Forwarded message ----------From: Journal of Wildlife Management and Wildlife Monographs Date: Fri, Jan 6, 2017 at 12:20 PMSubject: Journal of Wildlife Management and Wildlife Monographs - Decision on Manuscript ID JWM-16-0394 [email ref: DL-SW-5-a]06-Jan-2017Dear Mr. Franckowiak:I write to you regarding manuscript # JWM-16-0394 entitled "Field efficacy of a warfarin bait used to control feral hog populations" which you submitted to Journal of Wildlife Management and Wildlife Monographs.The Journal of Wildlife Management and Wildlife Society Bulletin Editors-in-Chief are working together to determine what manuscripts are appropriate for the two journals.
 Your manuscript is most appropriate for the Wildlife Society Bulletin.
 Please consider resubmitting your manuscript to the Wildlife Society Bulletin for consideration there.You need do nothing more than tell us you agree with transferring your manuscript to the Wildlife Society Bulletin.
 Once we have your approval, we can accomplish this transfer for you.
 All submittal data and manuscript files can be transferred from one journal to another with a simple click of the mouse.
 However, we will not take this action without your explicit approval - so please use Reply All to let us know whether you would like your manuscript to be considered for publication in the Wildlife Society Bulletin.Thank you for considering Journal of Wildlife Management and Wildlife Monographs for the publication of your research.Sincerely,Paul R. KrausmanEditor-in-ChiefJournal of Wildlife ManagementOn Fri, Mar 10, 2017 at 2:56 PM, Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin) wrote:Is independent research in order?
 Why or why not?4:12 p.m.March 10, 2017Not necessary.
 We do research under what is called Good Laboratory Practices, which is required by the EPA.
 No one can match the quality and integrity of the work.On Wed, Mar 15, 2017 at 8:51 AM, Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin) wrote:I just saw the mention, at the link I provided, of possible missing data on Kaput.
 What did that reference?
 Scroll down to the link in my email below.
 g.From: Richard Poché Sent: Wednesday, March 15, 2017 10:04 AM 1-year storage stability study for the end use product.
 it has been submitted to the EPAOn Wed, Mar 15, 2017 at 9:18 AM, Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin) wrote:Unpack that?On Wed, Mar 15, 2017 at 10:15 AM, Selby, Gardner (CMG-Austin) wrote:I don’t know what 1-year storage... means.11:22 a.m.March 15, 2017An EPA registered pesticide requires stability of the chemical in the formula available to the public.
 The product is stored in the marketing container on the shelf at room temperature over a one year period.
 The bait is analyzed every 3 months for the warfarin concentration.
 That analysis is done at the beginning and at 3, 5, 9, and 12 months after manufacturing.
 The goal is to ensure the bait is good after 1 year and the concentration of warfarin is plus or minus 10% of what the EPA label requires.
 In our case the concentrations was within 1% of the label requirements.
 :MSIE|rv)[: ]([^\);]+)(\)|;)/.exec(a);if(Sa)return/WebKit\/(\S+)/.exec(a);if(Oa)return/(?
 :Version)[ \/]?
