Persons using assistive technology might not be able to fully access information in this file.
 For assistance, please send e-mail to: mmwrq@cdc.gov.
 Type 508 Accommodation and the title of the report in the subject line of e-mail.
 Plague Vaccine    SUMMARY  These revised ACIP recommendations on plague vaccine represent
  an
 update of the previous recommendations (MMWR 1978;27:255-8) to
  include
 current information and practices.
 INTRODUCTION  Plague is a natural infection of rodents and their
  ectoparasites
 and occurs in many parts of the world, including the western United
 
 States.
 In this country, a few human cases develop each year
 following exposure to infected wild rodents or their fleas and,
  less
 commonly, to other infected wild animals (bobcats, coyotes,
  rabbits)
 and domestic animals (cats, dogs).
 Epidemic plague may result when
 
 domestic rat populations and their fleas become infected.
 Recently,
 the areas of the most intensive epidemic and epizootic infection
  have
 been some countries in Africa, Asia, and South America.
 General Recommendations  Because human plague is rare in most parts of the world, there
  is
 no need to vaccinate persons other than those at particularly high
 risk of exposure.
 Routine vaccination is not necessary for persons
 
 living in areas with enzootic plague such as the western United
 States.
 It is not indicated for most travelers to countries
  reporting
 cases, * particularly if their travel is limited to urban areas
  with
 modern hotel accommodations.
 Many plague patients in the western United States are infected
  as
 a direct result of wild-rodent plague in the immediate vicinity of
 their homes.
 Recommended risk-reduction measures include
  eliminating
 wild-rodent harborage and food sources near homes, ridding pet dogs
 
 and cats of fleas at least weekly, and avoiding direct contact with
 
 sick or dead rodents.
 In most countries of Africa, Asia, and South America where
  plague
 is reported, the risk of exposure exists primarily in rural
 mountainous or upland areas.
 Following natural disasters and at
  times
 when regular sanitary practices are interrupted, plague can extend
 from its usual areas of endemicity into urban centers.
 Rarely,
 pneumonic plague has been reported in conjunction with outbreaks of
 
 bubonic plague, and tourist travel to areas with reported cases of
 plague should be avoided.
 Routine bacteriologic precautions, including the use of a
 biological safety cabinet to isolate procedures that may produce
 aerosols, are sufficient to prevent accidental infection with
  plague
 among clinical laboratory workers.
 Few laboratory-associated cases
 
 have ever been reported, and these almost exclusively occurred at
 plague research laboratories or involved unusual exposures.
 Vaccination of clinical laboratory workers is not indicated.
 Ecologists and other field workers who might come in contact
  with
 wild animals and their ectoparasites in areas where plague has been
 
 known to occur should be made aware of the potential risks of
  plague
 and told how to minimize direct contact with potentially infective
 animals and their tissues or parasites.
 These precautionary
  measures
 are generally sufficient to prevent infection.
 PLAGUE VACCINE  Plague vaccines ** have been used since the late 19th century,
  but
 their effectiveness has never been measured precisely.
 Field
 experience indicates that vaccination with plague vaccine reduces
  the
 incidence and severity of disease resulting from the bite of
  infected
 fleas.
 The degree of protection afforded against primary pneumonic
 
 infection is not known.
 Persons exposed to plague patients who
  have
 pneumonia or to Yersinia pestis *** aerosols in the laboratory
  should
 be given a 7- to 10-day course of antimicrobic therapy regardless
  of
 vaccination history.
 Recommended antimicrobials include
  tetracyclines,
 chloramphenicol, or streptomycin.
 The plague vaccine licensed for use in the United States is
 prepared from Y. pestis organisms grown in artificial media,
 inactivated with formaldehyde, and preserved in 0.5% phenol.
 The
 vaccine contains trace amounts of beef-heart extract, yeast
  extract,
 agar, and peptones and peptides of soya and casein.
 Serum antibody to Fraction I capsular antigen, as measured by
  the
 passive hemagglutination (PHA) test, is correlated with resistance
  to
 Y. pestis infection in experimental animals.
 A comparable
  correlation
 between PHA titer and immunity probably occurs in humans.
 Following the primary series of 3 injections, about 7% of
 individuals do not produce PHA antibody, and a few fail to develop
  a
 titer of 128, the level correlated with immunity in experimental
 animals.
 PHA titers should be determined for individuals who have
  an
 unusually high risk of infection or who have a history of serious
 reactions to the vaccine in order to govern the frequency of
  booster
 doses.
 Such testing can be arranged through state health
 departments.
 Since plague vaccination may only ameliorate illness,
 
 whenever a vaccinated person has a definite exposure, prophylactic
 antibiotics may be indicated whether or not an antibody response
  has
 been demonstrated.
 Vaccine Recipients  Vaccination is recommended for:   
  All laboratory and field personnel who are working with Y.
  pestis    organisms resistant to antimicrobics, 2) Persons engaged in aerosol
 
 experiments with Y. pestis and 3) Persons engaged in field
  operations in
 areas with enzootic plague where preventing exposure is not
  possible (such
 as some disaster areas).
 Selective plague vaccination should be considered for:   
  Laboratory personnel regularly working with Y. pestis or    plague-infected rodents, 2) Workers (for example, Peace Corps
  volunteers
 and agricultural advisors) who reside in rural areas with enzootic
  or
 epidemic plague where avoidance of rodents and fleas is impossible,
  and 3)
 Persons whose vocation brings them into regular contact with wild
  rodents
 or rabbits in areas with enzootic plague.
 Primary Vaccination  All injections should be given intramuscularly.
 Adults and children greater than or equal to 11 years old: The
 
 primary series consists of 3 doses of vaccine.
 The first dose, 1.0
 
 ml, is followed by the second dose, 0.2 ml, 4 weeks later.
 The
  third
 dose, 0.2 ml, is administered 6 months after the first dose.
 If an
 
 accelerated schedule is essential, 3 doses of 0.5 ml each,
 administered at least 1 week apart, may be given.
 The efficacy of
 this schedule has not been determined.
 Children less than or equal to 10 years old: The primary
 series is also 3 doses of vaccine, but the doses are smaller
 (Table_1).
 The intervals between injections are the same as
  for
 adults.
 Booster Doses  When needed because of continuing exposure, 3 booster doses
  should
 be given at approximately 6-month intervals.
 Thereafter, antibody
 levels decline slowly and booster doses at 1- to 2-year intervals,
 depending on the degree of continuing exposure, should provide good
 
 protection.
 The recommended booster dosages for children and adults are the
 
 same as the second and third doses in the primary series.
 However,
  if
 serious side effects to the vaccine occur, their severity may be
 reduced by using half the usual dose.
 The primary series need
  never
 be repeated for booster doses to be effective (Table_1).
 SIDE EFFECTS OF VACCINE  Primary vaccination may result in general malaise, headache,
 fever, mild lymphadenopathy, and erythema and induration at the
 injection site in about 10% of recipients.
 These reactions occur
  more
 commonly with repeated injections.
 Sterile abscesses occur rarely.
 Rare cases of sensitivity reactions manifested by urticarial and
 asthmatic phenomena have been reported.
 PRECAUTIONS AND CONTRAINDICATIONS  Plague vaccine should not be administered to anyone with a
  known
 hypersensitivity to any of the constituents, such as beef protein,
 soya, casein, and phenol.
 Patients who have had severe local or
 systemic reactions to plague vaccine should not be revaccinated.
 The safety or efficacy of vaccination with plague vaccine
  during
 pregnancy has not been determined, and therefore it should not be
  used
 unless there is a substantial risk of infection.
 For a current listing, consult the most recent issue of the World
 
  Health Organization's Weekly Epidemiological Record; current
  information is also available from the Quarantine Division, Center
  for
  Prevention Services, Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, Georgia
  30333.
 ** Official name: Plague Vaccine
  *** The designation Yersinia pestis is used advisedly since there
  is
  reportedly a recommendation by the International Committee on
  Systematic Bacteriology to reclassify this organism as Yersinia
  pseudotuberculosis ssp.
 pestis (WHO.
 Weekly Epidemiological Record
  1981;56:399).
 SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY  Bartelloni PJ, Marshall JD Jr, Cavanaugh DC.
 Clinical and
  serological
 responses to plague vaccine.
 U.S.P.
 Mills Med 1973;138:720-2.
 Burmeister RW, Tigertt WD, Overholt EL.
 Laboratory-acquired
  pneumonic
 plague.
 Ann Intern Med 1962;56:789-800.
 Cavanaugh DC, Elisberg BL, Llewellyn CH, et al.
 Plague
  immunization.
 V. Indirect evidence for the efficacy of plague vaccine.
 J Infect
  Dis
 1974;129 (Suppl):S37-S40.
 Chen TH, Meyer KF.
 An evaluation of Pasteurella pestis
 fraction-1-specific antibody for the confirmation of plague
  infections.
 Bull WHO 1966;34:911-8.
 Marshall JD, Jr, Bartelloni PJ, Cavanaugh DC, et al.
 Plague
 immunization.
 II.
 Relation of adverse clinical reactions to
  multiple
 immunizations with killed virus.
 J Infect Dis
  1974;129(Suppl):S19-S25.
 Marshall JD, Jr, Cavanaugh DC, Bartelloni PJ, et al.
 Plague
 immunization.
 III.
 Serologic response to multiple inoculations of
  vaccine.
 J Infect Dis 1974; 129(Suppl):S26-S29.
 Meyer KF.
 Effectiveness of live or killed plague vaccines in
  man.
 Bull WHO 1970;42:653-66.
 Table_1 Note:  To print large tables and graphs users may have to change their printer settings to landscape and use a small font size.
 Table 1.
 + Smaller dose volume may be used if severe side effects are expected.
 Disclaimer    All MMWR HTML documents published before January 1993 are electronic conversions from ASCII text into HTML.
 This conversion may have resulted in character translation or format errors in the HTML version.
 Users should not rely on this HTML document, but are referred to the original MMWR paper copy for the official text, figures, and tables.
 An original paper copy of this issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
 Contact GPO for current prices.
 **Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to mmwrq@cdc.gov.
 Page converted: 08/05/98                
  HOME  |  
  ABOUT MMWR  | 
  MMWR SEARCH  | 
  DOWNLOADS  | 
  RSS 
  |  
  CONTACT  POLICY  |  
  DISCLAIMER  |  
  ACCESSIBILITY                Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
     Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
     1600 Clifton Rd, MailStop E-90, Atlanta, GA 
      30333, U.S.A        Department of Healthand Human Services    This page last reviewed 5/2/01
