Home Locations   Find a Location   Arizona Locations   North Carolina Locations   Texas Locations    Services   Our Services   Urgent Care Services   Flu Prevention &amp; Treatment   Labs &amp; X-rays  Overview Confidential STD Testing    Physicals   Vaccinations &amp; Immunizations   Family Medicine   Sports Medicine  Overview Featuring Concussion Testing    Women’s Health   Employers    Your Visit  Overview FastMed MyChart Online Check-In Telemedicine Check-In Patient Forms FAQs   Insurance &amp; Discounts  Overview Insurance by State Self-Pay Pricing Pharmacy Discount Cards Coupons &amp; Featured Offers Pay My Bill   Health Resources  Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Antibiotics Education Health Tips FastMed Blog   About  Overview Mission and Values Senior Leadership Team Sell Your Practice Contact Careers News &amp; PR   MyChart  About Log In Pay My Bill Patient Forms   Check In Online MyChart  About Log In Pay My Bill Patient Forms    Careers Employers Pay My Bill Patient Reviews        Services     Locations      Find a Location  				Use Current Location   OR                                                                Careers Employers Pay My Bill Patient Reviews             100+ WALK-IN LOCATIONSOPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK MyChart Login       Home Locations   Find a Location   Arizona Locations   North Carolina Locations   Texas Locations    Services   Our Services   Urgent Care Services   Flu Prevention &amp; Treatment   Labs &amp; X-rays  Overview Confidential STD Testing    Physicals   Vaccinations &amp; Immunizations   Family Medicine   Sports Medicine  Overview Featuring Concussion Testing    Women’s Health   Employers    Your Visit  Overview FastMed MyChart Online Check-In Telemedicine Check-In Patient Forms FAQs   Insurance &amp; Discounts  Overview Insurance by State Self-Pay Pricing Pharmacy Discount Cards Coupons &amp; Featured Offers Pay My Bill   Health Resources  Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Antibiotics Education Health Tips FastMed Blog   About  Overview Mission and Values Senior Leadership Team Sell Your Practice Contact Careers News &amp; PR   MyChart  About Log In Pay My Bill Patient Forms   Check In Online MyChart  About Log In Pay My Bill Patient Forms          FASTMED BLOG  BACK TO FastMed Blog  Sinus Infection Strep Throat      Could I Have a Sinus Infection and Strep Throat?
 Did you know that It is possible to have a sinus infection and strep throat at the same time?
 When your body’s immune system is low, you are more susceptible to illnesses and have a harder time fighting them off.
 So, what starts as a mild cold can end up a severe sinus infection and strep throat.
 A sinus infection (sinusitis) occurs when your sinuses become swollen and inflamed.
 It is common to develop a sinus infection after a cold because a cold can cause sinuses to swell, preventing the discharge of mucus.
 According to WebMD, “When the sinuses become blocked and filled with fluid, bacteria can grow there and cause infection.
 This infection is sinusitis.” Symptoms   Pain or feeling of pressure around the eyes and face   Headache   Thick, yellow nasal discharge that has a foul smell   Post-nasal drip   Fever, cough, and congestion   Cold-like symptoms that last longer than 10 days   Treatment In most cases, a sinus infection can be treated with antibiotics.
 Your physician may also suggest taking decongestants to decrease the swelling in your nasal passages.
 Strep Throat Strep throat (Streptococcal pharyngitis) is a bacterial infection of the throat.
 Although strep throat is most common in children aged 5 to 15, it can affect anyone at any age.
 Strep throat is highly contagious and can be passed from person to person through airborne droplets (when someone with the infection sneezes or coughs) or through direct contact with infected surfaces.
 Symptoms   Difficulty swallowing   Severe throat pain   Swollen tonsils   White patches or streaks of pus in the back of throat   Swollen lymph nodes   Fever and headache   Stomachache, fatigue, and vomiting (especially in young children)   Treatment A physician can usually determine if you have strep throat in a matter of minutes with a rapid strep test.
 Once it is confirmed that you have strep throat, he or she will normally prescribe antibiotics.
 If you have a sinus infection and strep throat, the antibiotics that are prescribed for one illness will usually take care of the other illness as well.
 Whether you have strep throat, a sinus infection, a cold, or the flu, FastMed Urgent Care is available to see you every day of the year.
 With locations throughout North Carolina and Arizona, finding the care you need is simple.
 Contact your local FastMed today.
 Share this Page            Find a Location  				Use Current Location   OR                      Sign up for Email Offers Sign up to receive coupons, health tips, and more–directly to your inbox.
 First Name *      Last Name *        Email Address *     Sign Up           Find a Location  				Use Current Location   OR               FastMed’s services address a wide spectrum of urgent care, family, and sports medicine needs.
 In addition to providing immediate walk-in attention for an injury or illness, FastMed provides routine services including vaccines, labs &amp; X-rays, occupational medicine, and school or sports physicals.
 Urgent care locations are in Arizona, North Carolina, and Texas.
 FastMed clinics hold the Joint Commission’s Gold Seal of Approval® for accreditation in compliance with the Joint Commission’s national standards for healthcare quality and safety in ambulatory healthcare.
 Here you can find FastMed’s Notice of Non-Discrimination, Notice of Privacy Practices, Privacy Policy, Equal Opportunity Employer Statement and FastMed.com’s Terms of Use.
