The same has also been forward on instant messaging apps like WhatsApp.
 The post said that the new vaccine can cure the disease within 3 hours of injection.
 As per the post, the Roche Medical Company in the US has developed the vaccine.
 Here’s the screenshot: Via Rappler To everyone’s disappointment, the image used in such posts is not a vaccine.
 However, it is a quick 10-minute testing kit developed by a Korean company Sugentech.
 As per the global watchdog World Health Organization (WHO) or Food and Drug Administration (FDA), no vaccine or cure has been developed or approved by these bodies for the novel coronavirus.
 ALSO READ Former UN Envoy ‘Exposes’ How Coronavirus Was Created  As per the reports, the company has ramped up the production and will be exporting 300,000 test kits per week.
 Here’s the official confirmation that it’s a testing kit:   It’s description, as written on the company’s website, is as follows: SGTi-flex COVID-19 IgM/IgG is a gold nanoparticle-based immunochromatographic test kit for qualitative determination of COVID-19’s IgM and IgG antibodies in human whole blood (finger prick or venous), serum or plasma.
 The kits are accurate and easy to use and results can be observed with the naked eye within 10 minutes.
 ALSO READ Israeli Health Minister Believes The Messiah Will Cure Coronavirus  The experts are saying that the COVID-19 vaccine won’t be ready anytime soon, however, a number of medical companies and pharmaceuticals are working on potential cures and vaccines for the virus.
 What are your thoughts on the story?
 Let us know in the comments.
 Sajawal Rehman    Feature Writer        5 Shares                                  Toby Flanderson says:     April 1, 2020 at 2:16 pm      What’s fact chect?
 Sajwal         Sajawal Rehman says:     April 1, 2020 at 4:00 pm      No vaccine has been prepared or approved by the WHO.
 umer says:     April 2, 2020 at 12:19 pm      This might be vaccine some coverup is going on vaccine is not supposed to come out early it will come out later on.
 Aqeel Hassan says:     April 2, 2020 at 2:15 pm      but there was a video where a company head was telling about his vaccine and trump was standing beside him?
 Sajawal Rehman says:     April 2, 2020 at 2:28 pm      A number of companies and countries are busy preparing the vaccine.
 All of these vaccines will undergo thorough trials before getting approval for use from the WHO.
 Let’s Save the Environment by Reducing Smoking   Is CSS Worth It?
 An Exclusive Interview with DC Islamabad Hamz…   TikTok is a Game Changer for Marketers in Pakistan   Doha Deadlock: What’s the Future of Afghanistan?
 Srinagar Remembers!
 An Exclusive Interview with Farooq Hassan, One of…      Digital Technology Can Greatly Benefit Pakistan&amp;#
