Home     Subscribe Manage Login Logout        News   Main Page   NewsWatch   Milwaukee   Waukesha   Ozaukee/Washington   Wisconsin   Politics   Election 2016   Education   Health   Crime   Religion   Obituaries   Death Notices   Traffic   Weather   Special Reports   Corrections   Got a tip?
 You can view today&apos;s paper or previous issues.
 Want full access?
 Subscribe
             News    News Sections  Main Page NewsWatch Milwaukee Waukesha Ozaukee/Washington Wisconsin Politics Election 2016 Education Health Crime Religion Obituaries Death Notices Traffic Weather Special Reports Corrections Got a tip?
 Photos Video        Milwaukee woman named to FBI's 10 most wanted list    More News Headlines   
            UW-led study finds infection with Zika prevents reinfection
               
            U.S. failed to protect Americans in Benghazi, House GOP report says
               
            Wisconsin’s appeal on abortion turned away by Supreme Court
               
            Wisconsin abortion limits likely to fall in wake of Texas ruling
               
            Tree climbing: Adults get in touch with childhood, nature
                    Watchdog    Watchdog Sections  Main Page Dogged Blog Watchdog Reports Public Investigator No Quarter PolitiFact Data on Demand Citizen Watchdog   Photos Video     State Sen. Harris Dodd stands by aide with criminal past    More Watchdog Headlines    Daniel Bice:
            DA hopeful downplays erotic poetry book she published in 2014
               
            Federal gun prosecutions fall, even as Milwaukee crime rises
                Watchdog Update:
            Judge orders notorious Milwaukee landlord to pay up
                Watchdog Report:
            Corrections employee still a supervisor after misusing Taser
                Watchdog Update:
            FDA standards for approving cancer drugs lax, study says
                    Opinion    Opinion Sections  Main Page Editorial Board Blog Editorials Local Perspectives National Columnists Letters Crossroads Purple Wisconsin James E. Causey Christian Schneider   Photos Videos        GOP senators should do their job and vote on Garland    More Opinion Headlines    Ben Boychuk:
            Democrats go too far on guns
                Rolf Wegenke:
            Study on education rates does not reflect reality
               
            Assault weapons; palliative care; Elizabeth Warren
                Ernst-Ulrich Franzen:
            To Walker, Clinton and Clarke: Transparency matters to public
                Elizabeth Ward:
            The EPA needs to keep Wisconsin’s drinking water safe
                    Sports    Sports Sections  Main Page Preps Plus Scoreboard Outdoors Green Bay Packers Golf Milwaukee Brewers Auto Racing Milwaukee Bucks Milwaukee Admirals Wisconsin Badgers Milwaukee Wave / Soccer Marquette Golden Eagles Sports Blogs UWM Panthers TV/Radio listings State Colleges   Photos Videos        As attendance sags, Brewers see signs of summer boost    More Sports Headlines    
            Pat Summitt, most wins of any Division 1 basketball coach, dies at 64
               
            John Crockett to play role in backfield, special teams
                Prep baseball:
            West Bend West's win streak reaches 14
               
            Malcolm Brogdon will help revamp backup guard corps
               
            Get to Know: Brewers pitcher Zach Davies
                    Business    Business Sections  Main Page BusinessWatch Markets OnRamp Labs Real Estate Energy Harley Retail Investment Trends Executive Q&A; Workshift PRHub Top Workplaces Healthcare Reform Wisconsin 75   Photos Video        Chef aims high at new Kimpton hotel's restaurant    More Business Headlines   
            Marcoux recommended for 4th term as city development commissioner
               
            Adient moving forward with divestiture from Johnson Controls
                
            Ikea recalls 29 million dressers after 6 kids killed
               
            A Brexit silver lining?
 Mortgage rates back near the bottom again
               
            As Brexit tremors spread, U.S. investors lose $1.3 trillion
                    Entertainment    Entertainment Sections  Tap Milwaukee TV and Movies Dining Music Summerfest Arts Books Beer Events Comics Best Summer Ever Puzzles Horoscopes Lottery   Photos Videos        35 must-see Summerfest acts    More Entertainment Headlines   
            'Bachelorette' recap: Jordan Rodgers called 'entitled'
               
            Ray Jivoff, Norman Moses to star in Skylight's 'La Cage Aux Folles'
               
            At its best, 'An Ideal Husband" serves smorgasbord of Wildean wit
               
            Which emerging country acts you should catch at Summerfest
               
            2016 Milwaukee Film Festival unveils first 8 movies
                    Lifestyle    Lifestyle Sections  Fresh Recipes Food and Cooking Drinks Home Decor Garden Fashion and Style Parties Travel Advice Wisconsin Trails Best Summer Ever Metroparent Sponsored Content   Photos Video        Mix it up with leftover ingredients    More Lifestyle Headlines    Chef Chat:
            Nikki Dinki takes a fresh look at vegetables
                Foodie Finds:
            Brussel Bytes are a healthy snack with lots of crunch
                Espresso Lane:
            Experience African culture, food at African Picnic
               
            Food and drink events
               
            Dress your summer salads with simple, homemade dressings
                    Green Sheet    Green Sheet Sections  Main Page Comics Advice Puzzles Horoscopes        Fourth of July fireworks, parades in the Milwaukee area 2016    More Green Sheet Headlines   
            Test your knowledge of this week's news
               
            Visit to Bosnia sparks nurse's mission of a lifetime
               
            Rockwell Automation ranked as a top green company in U.S.
 The Assembly approved, on a bipartisan vote of 68-26, a bill requiring at least two-thirds of the purchases in the state's FoodShare program to come from a list of state-defined healthy foods, with Republicans arguing that the benefits outweighed the opposition of some business interests and advocates for the needy.
 The measure now goes to the state Senate.
 There are no figures on how much of the nearly $1.2 billion a year in FoodShare benefits in Wisconsin are spent on junk food, but proponents pointed to past stories about FoodShare recipients buying large amounts of soda or other unhealthy foods.
 The proposal would likely be rejected by the federal government, which pays for the great majority of the program's costs.
 But the bill's lead sponsor, Rep. Dean Kaufert (R-Neenah), said state officials should push forward and hope for the final go-ahead from President Barack Obama's administration.
 "Let Wisconsin be the test case.
 Let us lead the way," Kaufert said.
 In a separate vote, the Senate backed the FoodShare fraud measure 28-5, with the opposition coming from Democratic Sens.
 Tim Cullen of Janesville, Nikiya Harris of Milwaukee, Mark Miller of Monona, Fred Risser of Madison and Lena Taylor of Milwaukee.
 The bill now goes to Gov.
 Scott Walker, who will evaluate it, spokesman Tom Evenson said.
 That measure passed the Assembly 73-24 last month, with 13 Democrats joining all Republicans in support of it.
 The Senate vote followed stories by the Journal Sentinel looking at the trafficking of FoodShare benefits as well as efforts by state officials to clamp down on the practice.
 It also implements at the state level recent changes in federal rules regarding the trafficking of food stamp benefits.
 The legislation would provide an explicit prohibition in state law on both buying and selling FoodShare benefits and the food purchased with those benefits.
 The bill's opponents said that was redundant.
 "This bill is unnecessary," Harris said.
 "It's already illegal, so why are we making it illegal a second time?"
 A Journal Sentinel review found evidence of fraud occurring in a small fraction of the cases in the program.
 But with nearly 1.1 million Wisconsin recipients in the 2012 fiscal year, even a small amount of impropriety in FoodShare can add up.
 In 2011, the newspaper reported on Milwaukee residents who were openly buying or selling FoodShare benefits in violation of the law on Facebook and other social media sites.
 The newspaper also found that nearly 2,000 FoodShare recipients in 2011 reported losing their Quest cards - similar to debit cards and used by participants to purchase food - six or more times in the previous year.
 The bill keeps trafficking penalties at current levels.
 Fraud involving less than $100 would amount to a misdemeanor with up to $1,000 in fines and one year in jail.
 Infractions involving more than $100 would amount to one of several felonies, depending on the exact dollar amount.
 Democrats contrasted the actions taken to hold FoodShare recipients accountable with what they said was a lack of effort by Republicans to address problems with subsidy programs for businesses at the Wisconsin Economic Development Corp. On the healthy foods bill, no studies have looked at the spending on different kinds of groceries within Wisconsin's FoodShare program, according to the state Department of Health Services.
 That means it's unclear whether the bill would actually increase the amount of money spent on healthy food in FoodShare.
 Kaufert said that the bill should be passed because a substantial amount of FoodShare benefits is clearly being spent on junk food.
 But Rep. Evan Goyke (D-Milwaukee) said that's due in part to the fact that needy families in areas such as Milwaukee's inner city don't have ready access to stores stocking fresh fruits and vegetables.
 "The business model is the corner store," Goyke said.
 "There's no access to healthy food."
 Critics also said that the state list of healthy foods doesn't always include foods that most people see as healthy in moderation, including cranberries and some kinds of cheeses.
 Kaufert said that he was open to adding more foods to the state list later in the process.
 The costs of implementing the program have also been a concern for grocery store owners, who would need to make significant computer system changes to do that.
 Kaufert's bill has drawn outright opposition from other groups, including Kraft Food Group - the food giant whose holdings include Oscar Mayer Co. in Madison - PepsiCo Inc. and state associations representing food processors, convenience stores and retailers.
 The U.S. Department of Agriculture, which oversees the FoodShare program, isn't commenting on the Wisconsin bill.
 In the past, it has rejected proposals in other states restricting the sales of soda or candy using public benefits, including Minnesota in 2004, New York in 2010, and Mississippi in 2012.
 In other action Tuesday, the Assembly passed on a voice vote and sent to Walker a bill giving more leeway to the military-style vehicles known as ducks that travel on both water and land.
 The popular ducks, a mainstay of tourism in the Wisconsin Dells area, could travel up to 5 miles on roads under the bill, up from their current limit of 2 miles.
 That would give them more access to outlying hotels in the expanding Dells area.
 Also Tuesday, the Assembly and Senate voted to double fines for reckless driving around garbage haulers, sending the bill to Walker.
 The proposal would essentially treat sanitation workers the same as construction and highway workers by raising speeding and reckless driving fines for violations committed near them.
 Rep. John Jagler (R-Watertown) sponsored the bill following an accident in which one of his constituents, Mark Friend, lost a leg and had the other badly injured after being pinned between a vehicle and a garbage truck while emptying a trash container.
 Friend was on hand Tuesday at the Capitol as the Assembly approved the bill on a voice vote and the Senate passed it on a 31-1 vote, with only Sen. Glenn Grothman (R-West Bend) opposing it because he thought it was excessive.
 The bill now goes to Walker.
 The Senate approved a bill 30-3 that would bar insurers from setting prices for dental services they don't cover.
 Opposing the bill were Republican Sens.
 Paul Farrow of the Village of Pewaukee, Grothman and Leah Vukmir of Wauwatosa.
 The bill passed the Assembly 89-8 last month and now goes to Walker.
 The state's largest business lobby, Wisconsin Manufacturers &amp; Commerce, opposed the measure because it said it interfered with the ability of people and businesses to write contracts.
 Some insurance policies provide coverage for cleanings and fillings but not other services.
 Some of those policies, however, establish maximum prices that dentists can charge consumers for services they don't cover, such as for crowns.
 Dalai Lama.
 In other legislative news, the Dalai Lama will speak to the Wisconsin Assembly next week.
 The Tibetan spiritual leader - who last addressed the Assembly in 1998 - will make brief remarks before the Assembly on May 14, a day before he speaks at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
 The speech was arranged after Rep. Jeff Stone (R-Greendale) got to know Sherab Phunkyi, a Tibetan refugee and longtime worker in the Assembly sergeant at arms' office.
 Phunkyi found Stone was interested in his experience and asked him if he would be willing to invite the Dalai Lama to speak to the Assembly if he were in the area.
 About Patrick Marley Patrick Marley covers state government and state politics.
 He is the author, with Journal Sentinel reporter Jason Stein, of "More Than They Bargained For: Scott Walker, Unions and the Fight for Wisconsin.”  @patrickdmarley pmarley@journalsentinel.com 608-258-2262       About Jason Stein Jason Stein covers the state Capitol and is the author with his colleague Patrick Marley of "More than They Bargained For: Scott Walker, Unions and the Fight for Wisconsin."
 His work has been recognized by journalism groups such as the American Society of News Editors, the Society of American Business Editors and Writers, and the Association of Capitol Reporters and Editors.
