Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search         Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                  Vaccine Safety             Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                            Thimerosal FAQs     Minus     Related Pages        Frequently Asked Questions    What is thimerosal?Why do some people worry about thimerosal in vaccines?Is thimerosal safe?Is thimerosal still used in vaccines for children?
 Does thimerosal cause autism?Are there side effects from thimerosal in vaccines?How can I find out if thimerosal is in a vaccine?
 Some parents have questions about the safety of ingredients – like thimerosal (“THY-mayr-uh-sal”) – in children’s shots (vaccines).
 We want you to know that thimerosal is no longer used in children’s shots, except some types of flu shots.
 You can ask for a flu shot without thimerosal.
 Check out these answers to common questions about thimerosal.
 What is thimerosal?
 Thimerosal is a vaccine additive, added to some vaccines to prevent germs (like bacteria and fungi) from growing in them.
 If germs grow in vaccines, they can cause illness—or even death.
 Why do some people worry about thimerosal in vaccines?
 You may have heard that thimerosal has mercury in it.
 Not all types of mercury are the same.
 Some types of mercury, like mercury in some kinds of fish, stay in the human body and can make people sick.
 Thimerosal is a different kind of mercury.
 It doesn’t stay in the body, and is unlikely to make us sick.
 Is thimerosal safe?
 Yes.
 Thimerosal has been used safely in vaccines for a long time (since the 1930s).
 Scientists have been studying the use of thimerosal in vaccines for many years.
 They haven’t found any evidence that thimerosal causes harm.
 Is thimerosal still used in vaccines for children?
 No.
 Thimerosal hasn’t been used in vaccines for children since 2001.
 However, thimerosal is still used in some flu vaccines.
 Yearly flu vaccines are recommended for all children.
 If you are worried about thimerosal, you can ask for a flu vaccine without it.
 Does thimerosal cause autism?
 No.
 Research does not show any link between thimerosal and autism.
 Read more about vaccines and autism.
 Are there side effects from thimerosal in vaccines?
 Most people don’t have any side effects from thimerosal, but some people will have mild side effects like redness and swelling at the place where the shot was given, which will only last 1 to 2 days.
 It’s very unlikely you will have an allergic reaction to thimerosal.
 How can I find out if thimerosal is in a vaccine?
 Ask your doctor or pharmacist.
 Ask to see the vaccine’s list of ingredients.
 All vaccine packages come with information (called an insert) that lists the ingredients.
 Check out this complete list of vaccines to see which ones contain thimerosalexternal icon.
 Top of PageReferences Please see Thimerosal Publications for a list of scientific articles on thimerosal.
 Top of Page Related LinksVaccine IngredientsThimerosal and Seasonal Flu VaccinesFDA's Thimerosal in Vaccines Qs &amp; Asexternal icon Top of Page          
 					Page last reviewed: August 19, 2020 Content source: 	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion (DHQP)         homeVaccine Safety  Safety Information by Vaccineplus icon  Chickenpox (Varicella) Vaccines Diphtheria, Tetanus, and Pertussis Vaccines Haemophilus influenza Type b (Hib) Vaccines Hepatitis A Vaccines Hepatitis B Vaccines Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccineplus icon  Questions about HPV Vaccine Safety   Influenza (Flu) Vaccines Measles, Mumps, Rubella (MMR) Vaccinesplus icon  MMR Safety Studies   Measles, Mumps, Rubella, Varicella (MMRV) Vaccinesplus icon  VSD MMRV Safety Study MMRV Safety Studies MMRV and Febrile Seizures   Meningococcal Vaccines Pneumococcal Vaccines Rotavirus Vaccine Shingles (Herpes Zoster) Vaccines Smallpox Vaccine   Questions and Concernsplus icon  Adjuvants Autismplus icon  CDC Statement: 2004 Pediatrics Paper on MMR and Autism   Fainting after Vaccination Febrile Seizures Guillain-Barre Syndrome Multiple Vaccinations at Once Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) Thimerosalplus icon  CDC Study (2010 ) on Thimerosal and Risk of Autism Thimerosal FAQs Related Scientific Articles Infant and Environmental Exposures to Thimerosal 2007 Study Timeline: Thimerosal in Vaccines   Vaccines During Pregnancy FAQs FAQs about Vaccine Recalls Historical Vaccine Safety Concernsplus icon  GBS and Menactra Vaccine FAQs Gardasil Vaccine Recall (2013) FAQs Hep B and Multiple Sclerosis FAQs Hib Vaccine Recall (2007) Summary Narcolepsy Following Pandemrix Influenza Vaccination in Europe     Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon  Talking to Patients About Vaccine Safety Reporting Adverse Events Resources for Healthcare Providers   Information for Parents and Caregiversplus icon  Vaccine Safety FAQs   Researchplus icon  Publications Institute of Medicine (IOM) Reports ISO Scientific Agenda   Ensuring Safetyplus icon  Overview, History, and How It Works Side Effects and Adverse Events Vaccine Safety Monitoringplus icon  Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS)plus icon  How to Access Data from CDC’s VAERS WONDER System Print and Web Material VAERS Publications   CISAplus icon  CISA Resources for Healthcare Professionals Evaluation Clinical Research Studies Historical Background 2001-12 Publications Technical Reports   Vaccine Safety Datalink (VSD)plus icon  Accessing Data from Vaccine Safety Datalink Data Sharing Guidelines Vaccine Safety Datalink Publications   Emergency Preparedness   Vaccine Safety Partners   About ISO     Get Email Updates To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:  Email Address  What's this?
 Submit                HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
