Rural bridges targeted   Mark Hoffman Motorists cross a bridge spanning the east branch of the Rock River on Thursday in the Town of Addison in northwestern Washington County.
 This bridge will be replaced using federal stimulus funds.
 By Ben Poston and Tom Held Published on: 3/29/2009  Town of Arena - It took three seconds for the teal GMC truck to rumble over the River Road Bridge in northeast Iowa County.
 About 15 minutes later, the same truck crossed again.Friday morning, three other vehicles traveled the concrete bridge, which handles 10 cars a day on average.Despite the low traffic volume, the Town of Arena will get about $426,000 to replace the little-used bridge this summer.
 It's one of 37 that will be paid for with federal stimulus money approved this month by Wisconsin lawmakers.A Douglas County bridge that got stimulus money also typically gets 10 cars a day.A vast majority of the Wisconsin bridges awarded construction money in the first wave of federal stimulus funding carry fewer than 1,000 vehicles a day, a Journal Sentinel analysis of federal bridge inspections shows.
 And many bridges carry significantly fewer than that.
 The 37 bridges average 568 vehicles a day.These mostly small, rural bridges will receive $15.8 million, while high priority larger bridges with daily traffic counts approaching 60,000 vehicles were ineligible for funding in the first round.The cash flowed to the chosen projects based largely on timing.The 37 bridges that got funding have met all the requirements needed to start the flow of cash from federal coffers.More than 1,200 other bridges deemed deficient have not met those funding requirements.
 And the goal of the program is to create construction jobs quickly.The state hopes to put more than 13,000 people to work on new transportation projects, with a total of $529 million allocated to the construction program.
 It's unclear how many specific jobs will be created for the first round of projects, including the Town of Arena bridge.Bridge projects awarded funding in the first wave of federal money had been approved earlier as part of the state program that delivers federal money to towns and counties.
 Some had been on the list for two or three years, as the requests for bridge dollars outpaced the supply of federal funding.
 "They were next on the list, shall we say," said Dan Fedderly, executive director of the Wisconsin County Highway Association.But they won't create much traffic.
 A dozen of the selected bridges carry fewer than 100 vehicles a day.The 40-foot River Road span serves as the only link over Blue Mounds Creek to a state Department of Natural Resources boat landing on the south bank of the Wisconsin River.Traffic over the bridge is all for recreational use - canoeing, fishing or lodging at a private campground, Town Chairman Dave Lucey said.
 "I was surprised as anyone when I got the call that the bridge was going to be fixed," Lucey said at town hall, housed in a sheet metal building.
 "I can tell you that bridge is a low priority for us.
 "When asked whether the River Road Bridge gets much use, Iowa County Highway Commissioner Craig Hardy, replied, "No, it doesn't.
 ""I would say it met all the guidelines and requirements set forth by DOT, and that's why it ended up where it's at," Hardy said.The average traffic count for the other eligible local bridges is about 2,550 cars a day, or more than four times as many vehicles as the projects approved by the Joint Finance Committee on March 17.
 The total package included 49 bridge and highway projects totaling $42.5 million.To be eligible for that first allocation, projects needed to have environmental assessments and Army Corps of Engineer permits.
 Engineering and design plans had to be in place, and the contracts for the work needed to be ready to go by March 2010.Given the tight deadlines, infrastructure projects with the greatest public safety needs aren't necessarily the ones that received funding.
 "Especially in the local government system, many times, there isn't a whole shelf full of projects sitting there designed and ready to go," Fedderly said.Chris Klein, executive assistant at the state Department of Transportation, said all 37 bridge projects would have been pushed back to the 2011 budget were it not for federal stimulus funds.Beth Cannestra, director of the bureau of structures for the DOT, said that higher traffic volume bridges often require additional engineering and environmental work, disqualifying them from the first round of stimulus funds.
 "Those larger projects are more complex and time consuming and have more utility complications," Cannestra said.
 "Smaller, lower-volume roadway projects are easier to get out.
 "County highway commissioners, city engineers and town officials across the state are now scrambling to prepare the documents for the second round of recovery dollars.
 Applications are due April 8, and the deadlines for eligibility require all the other planning work be done by December.The pool of money available in round two is $116 million, with roughly $49 million of that earmarked for urban areas in Milwaukee, Madison and Round Lake Beach, Ill.To meet federal eligibility requirements for the local bridge program, bridges must be deemed structurally deficient or functionally obsolete by state inspectors.Structurally deficient bridges are those that are deteriorating and limited to lighter vehicles.
 Functionally obsolete bridges are older structures that are narrow, have low clearances or do not meet current design criteria.Statewide, nearly 15%, or 2,020 bridges, are considered deficient or obsolete.
 Wisconsin has the fourth-lowest percentage of deficient bridges in the nation, behind Arizona, Minnesota and Nevada.Michael Erickson, manager of the state DOT local bridge improvement program, said daily traffic counts alone do not dictate which bridges get priority.
 "It's not the only factor, but how it's weighed is a local decision," Erickson said.
 "For a town, this is the only way (a bridge) will ever get improved.
 Will you tell the farmer who has to haul his milk over the bridge that only gets 100 cars a day that his bridge won't ever be fixed?
 "There are more than 400 bridges currently scheduled for replacement or rehabilitation in the local bridge improvement program in the next five years.A span over Rocky Run, a backwater of the Wisconsin River in the Town of Linwood in Portage County, is one of those that had been on the list.
 It was moved up with the infusion of recovery act dollars.
 Dale Peterson, the assistant highway commissioner, has been waiting for the go-ahead and the $840,000 since 2006.According to state bridge inspection reports, the traffic count on the bridge averages 260 a day, including golfers traveling on West River Drive to the Stevens Point Country Club and crews from Consolidated Paper driving to the company's waste treatment plant.
 The patrons of Rusty's Backwater Saloon also utilize the 85-foot bridge.Peterson is happy to put a crew to work replacing the bridge this summer.
 He's hopeful that the federal cash flowing in 2009 will move up a few other bridge projects in 2010.Particularly in rural areas, the value of a bridge can't be measured solely in traffic counts, said John Kropp, a highway engineer in Manitowoc County.
 "We're looking at bridges that take 15 to 20 cars per day, but they still serve the same purpose as the bridges in Milwaukee, getting people from one side to the other," he said.One of his projects, the Newton Road Bridge of Point Creek, serves farmers traveling from one field to another, milk haulers and school buses.
 A portion of the bridge has been washing out, and Kropp applied to have it replaced in 2005.That work will be done this summer, thanks to $400,000 in recovery funds.
 "We're just grateful that it's happening and, believe me, so is the town," Kropp said.Data on demand Search a database of more than 2,000 bridges in Wisconsin deemed structurally deficient or functionally obsolete at www.jsonline.com/dataondemand.
