Would you like to go to the Nigeria website?
 Statement from Jacqueline Ayers, vice president of government relations &amp; public policy, Planned Parenthood Federation of America:   “Like many other local nonprofits and health care providers, some independent Planned Parenthood 501(c)(3) organizations applied for and were awarded loans under the eligibility rules established by the CARES Act and the Small Business Administration (SBA), which they met.
 Planned Parenthood health centers play a core role in the social safety net, and there is no more critical time for the care they provide than during a public health crisis.
 “And just like other nonprofits and health care providers, this pandemic has had a significant impact on Planned Parenthood health centers’ ability to provide care.
 Paycheck Protection Program loans have ensured health centers can retain staff and continue to provide patients with essential, time-sensitive sexual and reproductive health care during this crisis.
 “This is a clear political attack on Planned Parenthood health centers and access to reproductive health care.
 It has nothing to do with Planned Parenthood health care organizations’ eligibility for COVID-19 relief efforts, and everything to do with the Trump administration using a public health crisis to advance a political agenda and distract from their own failures in protecting the American public from the spread of COVID-19.
 It is also just the latest salvo in the Trump administration's long history of targeting Planned Parenthood, and trying to severely limit access to sexual and reproductive health care.
 “For many patients, local Planned Parenthood health centers are their only source of health care; the unfortunate reality is the pandemic has made existing barriers to care worse for many of the communities they serve.
 While local Planned Parenthood health centers are focused on providing critical health care for their communities during this pandemic, the Trump administration is focused on attacking critical safety net providers.
 This is not the time to play politics, and it is certainly not the time to reduce access to critical health care.”    ### Planned Parenthood is the nation’s leading provider and advocate of high-quality, affordable health care for women, men, and young people, as well as the nation’s largest provider of sex education.
 With more than 600 health centers across the country, Planned Parenthood organizations serve all patients with care and compassion, with respect and without judgment.
 Through health centers, programs in schools and communities, and online resources, Planned Parenthood is a trusted source of reliable health information that allows people to make informed health decisions.
 We do all this because we care passionately about helping people lead healthier lives.
 Planned Parenthood delivers vital reproductive health care, sex education, and information to millions of people worldwide.
 Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc. is a registered 501(c)(3) nonprofit under EIN 13-1644147.
 Donations are tax-deductible to the fullest extent allowable under the law.
 Please enter your zip, city, or state.
 ',  'location_search_progress': 'Finding your location...',  'location_search_submitting': 'Location found.
 By clicking "GO" below, you will be directed to a website operated by an independent Planned Parenthood 501(c)(4) entity.
