Skip to main content                           About LloydBiography Committees About the 35th District  Serving YouConstituent Services Visiting Washington, DC Flag Requests Passports Grant Applicants Students Enrolling in the Health Insurance Marketplace Small Business Assistance Internships Tours and Tickets Academy Nominations Commendations and Greetings Press and News Media Senior Citizens Veterans  IssuesCoronavirus (COVID-19) Fighting for Education and Our Youth Gender Equality Growing Our Economy Gun Safety Healthcare Immigration Reform Impeach Trump Policing Reform and Social Justice Protecting Access to the Ballot Box Protecting Our Planet Technology Transparency in the Trump Administration Veterans  COVID-19 Legislative CenterCommittee Assignments Reading Roll Call Votes Currently in Congress Legislative Process Sponsored Legislation For Students  NewsLatest News Videos Social Media Press Kit  Voting Safely Contact LloydWrite to Congressman Lloyd Doggett Subscribe to Lloyd's List Take Lloyd's Survey Tome la Encuesta de Lloyd Privacy Policy              Search form  Search                              Connect                       Page Not Found        The webpage, file or other resource that you were trying to view wasn't found at the location requested.
 This could be for many reasons: If you arrived here by selecting a link provided by a site other than the U.S. House of Representatives, their links may be out of date.
 Please notify the originating site of this error.
 If you arrived here by typing in a specific URL, please make sure the spelling, capitalization, and punctuation are correct.
 If you arrived here by using a favorite or bookmarked link, the link may no longer be up to date.
 Please try the following: Go to the home page and see if you can navigate to the correct location.
 Search the website by entering keywords in the search box or go to the search page.
 Send us an email or notify us of a website problem.
 Call one of our offices for further assistance.
 If you were attempting to contact a different representative, or were not expecting to come to my website, you may also want to try the following: Go to the U.S. House of Representatives home page.
 View the current directory of Representatives or use the Find Your Representative service.
 Enter keywords into the SEARCH box near the top of the website or go to the advanced search page to search the entire U.S. House of Representatives website.
 Send a message to the Web Comments Administrator.
 Please be as specific as possible and be sure to include the web address or URL to assist in the research and correction of the problem.
 Accessibility Copyright Privacy Tools                    San Antonio Office 217 W. Travis St. San Antonio, TX 78205 Phone: (210) 704-1080      Austin Office 300 East 8th St, 7th Floor Austin, TX 78701 Phone: (512) 916-5921      Washington, DC Office 2307 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Phone: (202) 225-4865
