Or sign in with a social account: FACEBOOK GOOGLE + TWITTER YAHOO!
 Don't have an account yet?
 Discover.
 Share.
 Get the most out of your experience with a personalized all-access pass to everything local on events, music, restaurants, news and more.
 Enter your email or sign up with a social account to get started  FACEBOOK TWITTER GOOGLE+ YAHOO!
 Privacy Policy SIGN UP ›    Already registered?
 "Florida Republicans have long said they can't take money from the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act because it's just so darned unconstitutional.
 Problem is, the $2.6 million for the sex-is-the-devil program came from the same fund.
 Legislative leadership is willing to overlook their opposition to federal health care reform, and take federal funding in one case because of a 'long-standing commitment' by the state to abstinence-only programs -- even though studies show these programs aren't effective.
 But when we have an evidence-based program like the Personal Responsibility Education Program (PREP) that has been proven effective in decreasing teen pregnancy, they put politics ahead of good policy... With all of the dramatic cuts to critical services the Republicans have leveled on Florida because of their blind obedience to a failed economic policy, severing the few remaining lifelines so many young and elderly depend on is not only cruel, it's unjustifiable.
 It's time they put the good of the people over pandering to their tea party supporters.
 Other programs that were denied funds by the state Legislature include teen pregnancy prevention, child abuse prevention, hospice and community health centers, and moving old folks from nursing homes into home and community-based care, among others.
 I Support 			  Local Community Journalism      Support the independent voice of South Florida and help keep the future of New Times free.
 Support Us    Those apparently aren't problems, but people having sex outside of wedlock -- preposterous.
 Follow The Pulp on Facebook and on Twitter: @ThePulpBPB.
 Follow Matthew Hendley on Facebook.
 Keep New Times Broward-Palm Beach Free...
 Since we started New Times Broward-Palm Beach, it has been defined as the free, independent voice of South Florida, and we would like to keep it that way.
 Offering our readers free access to incisive coverage of local news, food and culture.
 Producing stories on everything from political scandals to the hottest new bands, with gutsy reporting, stylish writing, and staffers who've won everything from the Society of Professional Journalists' Sigma Delta Chi feature-writing award to the Casey Medal for Meritorious Journalism.
 But with local journalism's existence under siege and advertising revenue setbacks having a larger impact, it is important now more than ever for us to rally support behind funding our local journalism.
 You can help by participating in our "I Support" membership program, allowing us to keep covering South Florida with no paywalls.
 Politics                Trending News    Dolphins Fans Lost Their Minds When Tua Tagovailoa Saw the...   Study Finds Rare Florida Bird Eats Junk Food to Survive   Despite COVID Precautions, a Doral Amazon Warehouse Worker...
 ©2020 New Times BPB, LLC.
 All rights reserved.
 By clicking 'X' or continuing to use the site, you agree to allow cookies to be placed.
 To find out more, visit our cookies policy and our privacy policy.
 Support our journalism &gt;   Privacy Policy         Join the New Times community and help support independent local journalism in South Florida.
 Get the latest updates in news, food, music and culture, and receive special offers direct to your inbox Sign Up Now &gt; No Thanks Become a donor and go ad-free!
