Search icon An illustration of a magnifying glass.
 Search icon An illustration of a magnifying glass.
 Upload icon An illustration of a horizontal line over an up pointing arrow.
 Upload       User icon An illustration of a person's head and chest.
 Sign up    |    Log in             Web icon An illustration of a computer application window    Wayback Machine        Texts icon An illustration of an open book.
 Books        Video icon An illustration of two cells of a film strip.
 Video        Audio icon An illustration of an audio speaker.
 Audio        Software icon An illustration of a 3.5" floppy disk.
 Software        Images icon An illustration of two photographs.
 Images        Donate icon An illustration of a heart shape    Donate        Ellipses icon An illustration of text ellipses.
 More          Hamburger icon An icon used to represent a menu that can be toggled by interacting with this icon.
 About    Blog    Projects    Help    Donate  Donate icon An illustration of a heart shape       Contact    Jobs    Volunteer    People             Search Metadata          Search text contents          Search TV news captions          Search archived websites     Advanced Search       Sign up for free  Log in                Full text of "Margaret Sanger; an autobiography."
 See other formats   jniversity of   Connecticut   libraries        kv         "I »-.•#?&gt;     »* ....     *.
 HQ 764.S3A3  Margaret Sanger;     hbl, stx     3 C I153 D073MflQ3 2        Co     Digitized by the Internet Archive   in 2012 with funding from   LYRASIS members and Sloan Foundation     http://archive.org/details/margaretsangerau1938sang     MARGARET SANGER     ^r      Margaret Sanger     PLEASE NOTE     It has been necessary to replace some of the original  pages in this book with photocopy reproductions  because of damage or mistreatment by a previous  user.
 Replacement of damaged materials is both expensive  and time-consuming.
 Please handle this volume with  care so that information will not be lost to future  readers.
 Thank you for helping to preserve the University's  research collections.
 MARGARET  SANGER     -aJ^5^^^^«5»^-3»^^^-5JMK»^ «S-«K-gfr«6~«C&gt;«3S-«K~««-«$-«g-     ?An I went to bed, knowing that no matter what it might cost, I was  finished with palliatives and superficial cures ; I was resolved to seek  out the root of evil, to do something to change the destiny of     mothers whose miseries were vast as the sky.
 Chapter Eight     I HAVE PROMISES TO KEEP     HOW were mothers to be saved?
 I went through many revolv-  ing doors, looked around, and, not finding what I was seek-  ing, came out again.
 I talked incessantly to everybody who seemed  to have social welfare at heart.
 Progressive women whom I con-  sulted were thoroughly discouraging.
 "Wait until we get the vote.
 Then we'll take care of that," they assured me.
 I tried the Social-  ists.
 Here, there, and everywhere the reply came, "Wait until women  have more education.
 Wait until we secure equal distribution of  wealth."
 Wait for this and wait for that.
 Wait!
 Wait!
 Wait!
 "The people you're worrying about wouldn't use contraception  if they had it; they breed like rabbits.
 And, besides, there's a law  against it."
 "Information does exist, doesn't it?"
 "Perhaps, but I doubt whether you can find it.
 Even if you do,  you can't pass it on.
 Comstock'll get you if you don't watch out."
 In order to ascertain something about this subject which was  so mysterious and so unaccountably forbidden, I spent almost a  year in the libraries — the Astor, the Lenox, the Academy of Medi-  cine, the Library of Congress, and dozens of others.
 Hoping that   93     94 MARGARET SANGER   psychological treatises might inform me, I read Auguste Forel  and Iwan Block.
 At one gulp I swallowed Havelock Ellis' Psychol-  ogy of Sex, and had psychic indigestion for months thereafter.
 I  was not shocked, but this mountainous array of abnormalities made  me spiritually ill.
 So many volumes were devoted to the exceptional,  and so few to the maladjustments of normal married people, which  were infinitely more numerous and urgent.
 I read translations from the German in which women were ad-  vised to have more children because it could be proved statistically  that their condition was improved by childbearing!
 The only article  on the question I could discover in American literature was in the  Atlantic Monthly by Edward Alsworth Ross of the University of  Wisconsin, who brought to the attention of his readers the decline  of the birth rate among the upper and educated classes and the in-  crease among the unfit, the consequences of which were sure to be  race suicide.
 The Englishman, Thomas Robert Malthus, remained little more  than a name to me, something like Plato or Henry George.
 Father  had talked about him, but he meant mostly agriculture — wheat and  food supplies in the national sense.
 Possibly he had a philosophy but  not, to me, a live one.
 He had been put away on a shelf and, in my  mind, had nothing to do with the everyday human problem.
 I was  not looking for theories.
 What I desired was merely a simple method  of contraception for the poor.
 The pursuit of my quest took me away from home a good deal.
 The children used to come in after school and at once hunt for me.
 "Where's mother?"
 was the usual question.
 If they found me at my  mending basket they all leaped about for joy, took hands and danced,  shouting, "Mother's home, mother's home, mother's sewing."
 Sew-  ing seemed to imply a measure of permanence.
 I, too, wanted to drive away the foreboding barrier of separation  by closer contact with them.
 I wanted to have them solely to myself,  to feed, to bathe, to clothe them myself.
 I had heard of the clean,  wind-swept Cape Cod dunes, which appeared to be as far from the  ugliness of civilization as I could get.
 Socialism, anarchism, syndi-  calism, progressivism — I was tired of them all.
 At the end of the  spring, thoroughly depressed and dissatisfied, I tucked the children     I HAVE PROMISES TO KEEP 95   under my arms, boarded a Fall River boat, and sailed off, a pioneer  to Provincetown.
 In 191 3 the tip of the Cape was nothing but a fishing village with  one planked walk which, I was told, had been paid for by Congress.
 Up and down its length the bellman, the last of the town criers,  walked, proclaiming the news.
 At first we lived in the upper story of a fisherman's house right  on the water.
 After he went out in the morning, his wife and her  children, and I and mine, were left alone.
 Then the old women  recalled scenes from their early days on the whaling vessels.
 Their  mothers had brought them forth unaided, and their own sons, in  turn, had been born on the ships and apprenticed to their husbands.
 They fitted into life simply, but the younger Portuguese, who were  taking over the fishing industry, were asking what they should do  about limiting their families.
 The village was rather messy and smelled of fish.
 I was still too  close to humanity and wanted to be more alone, so we moved to the  extreme end of town.
 Our veranda faced the Bay, and when the  tide was high the water came up and lapped at the piles on which  the cottage was built.
 Stuart, Grant, and Peggy used to sit on the  steps and dabble their toes.
 At low tide they had two miles of beach  on which to skip and run; it was a wonderful place to play, and all  summer we had sunrise breakfasts, sunset picnics.
 ^ Ethel, who had married Jack Byrne, was now widowed and had  also gone into nursing.
 She had considerable free time and stayed  with me.
 Consequently, I was able to leave the children in her care  when I made my expeditions to Boston's far-famed public library,  taking the Dorothy Bradford at noon, and coming back the next  day.
 Even there I found no information more reliable than that ex-  changed by back- fence gossips in any small town.
 I spent the entire season at Provincetown, groping for knowl-  edge, classifying all my past activities in their proper categories,  weighing the pros and cons of what good there was in them and  also what they lacked.
 It was a period of gestation.
 Just as you give  birth to a child, so you can give birth to an idea.
 Between interims of brooding and playing with the children I  took part in the diversions of the minute colony of congenial peo-     g6 MARGARET SANGER   pie.
 Charles Hawthorne had a school of painting, and Mary Heaton  Vorse with her husband, Joseph O'Brien, were there; so also were  Hutch Hapgood and Neith Boyce.
 Jessie Ashley had lifted Big  Bill Haywood out of the slough of the Paterson strike and brought  him down to rest and recuperate.
 Big Bill was one of the few who saw what I was aiming at, al-  though fearful that my future might involve the happiness of my  children.
 Even he did not feel that the small- family question was  significant enough to be injected into the labor platform.
 Neverthe-  less, as we rambled up and down the beach he came to my aid with  that cheering encouragement of which I was so sorely in need.
 He  never wasted words in advising me to "wait."
 Instead, he suggested  that I go to France and see for myself the conditions resulting  from generations of family limitation in that country.
 This struck  me as a splendid idea, because it would also give Bill Sanger a chance  to paint instead of continuing to build suburban houses.
 r The trip to Europe seemed so urgent that no matter what sacrifices  had to be made, we decided to make them when we came to them.
 In the fall we sold the house at Hastings, gave away some of our  furniture and put the rest in storage.
 Although we did not realize  it at the time, our gestures indicated a clean sweep of the past.
 Anita Block proposed that we go via Scotland ; she wanted me to  write three or four articles on what twenty-five years of municipal  ownership in Glasgow had done for women and children.
 Socialists  were talking about how everything there belonged to the people  themselves and had earned their own way — banks, schools, homes,  parks, markets, art galleries, museums, laundries, bath houses, hos-  pitals, and tramways.
 The city was about to pay off the last debt  on the transportation system, and this was being hailed as a great  victory, a perfect example of what Socialism could do.
 It sounded  big and fine, and I, too, was impressed.
 Certainly in Glasgow, I  thought, I should find women walking hand in hand with men, and  children free and happy.
 In October the Sangers sailed from Boston on a cabin boat, little  and crowded, and one black night two weeks later steamed up the  Clyde.
 The naval program of 191 3 was causing every shipyard to  run double shifts, and the flare and glare against the somber dark     I HAVE PROMISES TO KEEP 97   was like fairyland — giant, sparkling starlights reaching from the  horizon into the sky, a beautiful introduction to Utopia.
 The very next day I started out upon my investigationsj To mind  the children, aged nine, five, and three, I availed myself of a sort  of employment bureau run by the Municipal Corporation.
 I had  been told that anyone could call here for any imaginable type of  service.
 In response to my summons, there promptly arrived at my  door, standing straight and machine-like, a small boy in a buttons  uniform, with chin strap holding his cap on the side of his head.
 Willie MacGuire's stipend was to be twelve cents an hour, or fifty  cents for the half day.
 His function was to take the three out, en-  tertain them, and return them faithfully at any time designated.
 Though he was no bigger than Stuart, his efficient manner reas-  sured me, and I soon learned that he performed his duties diligently.
 Religiously I made the rounds of all the social institutions, and  at first everything appeared as I had been led to expect — except the  weather.
 It had always just rained, and, when the sun did show itself,  it was seldom for long enough to dry up the walks.
 Everywhere could be seen little girls down on their  knees, scrubbing the door-steps in front of the houses, or, again,  carrying huge bundles or baskets of groceries to be delivered at the  homes of the buyers.
 The people themselves seemed cold and rigid,  as dismal as their climate.
 Only the policemen had a sense of humor.
 As I proceeded, flaws in the vaunted civic enterprises began to  display themselves.
 Glasgow had its show beauty spots, but even  the model tenements were not so good as our simplest, lower-middle-  class apartment buildings.
 One had been constructed for the accom-  modation of "deserving and respectable widows and widowers be-  longing to the working class" having one or more children with  no one to care for them while the parents were away.
 But the build-  ing had been turned over to the exclusive use of widowers.
 Widows  and their children had to shift for themselves.
 All tenements were planned scientifically on the basis of so many  cubic feet of air and so much light per so many human beings, rang-  ing from quarters for two to those for five.
 No overcrowding was  allowed.
 98 MARGARET SANGER   "Well," I asked, "what happens when there are five or six chil-  dren?"
 "Oh, they can't live here," replied the superintendent.
 "They must  go elsewhere."
 "But where?"
 Conversation ceased.
 With particular attention I traced the adventures of one family  which had expanded beyond the three-child limit.
 The parents had first  moved over to the fringes of the city, and thereafter as more chil-  dren were born had traveled from place to place, progressively more  dingy, more decrepit.
 They now had nine and were inhabiting a hovel  in the shipbuilding slums, unimaginably filthy and too far from the  splendid utilities ever to enjoy them.
 The further I looked, the greater grew the inconsistency.
 The  model markets carried chiefly wholesale produce, and the really poor,  who were obliged to huddle on the far side of the city, contented  themselves with bread and tea and were thankful to have it.
 An-  other disappointment was the washhouses, dating from 1878 when  they had been deemed a public necessity because men had protested  they were being driven from their homes by washing which, on ac-  count of the incessant rain, seemed to hang there forever.
 A stall  cost only twopence an hour, less expensive than heating water at  home, and there were always women waiting in line.
 But the tram  system, which was on the point of being liquidated in spite of its  low fares, forbade laundry baskets, and, consequently, those who  were not within walking distance — and they were the ones who  needed it most — were deprived of its use.
 Throughout the slum section I saw drunken, sodden women  whose remaining, snag-like teeth stuck down like fangs and pro-  truded from their sunken mouths.
 When I asked one of the execu-  tive officers of the corporation why they were so much more de-  graded than the men, he replied, "Oh, the women of Glasgow are  all dirty and low.
 They're hopeless."
 "But why should this be?"
 I persisted.
 His only answer was, "It's their own fault."
 Bill and I walked about late at night, overwhelmed by the un-  speakable poverty.
 The streets were filled with fighting, shiftless beg-     I HAVE PROMISES TO KEEP 99   gars.
 Hundreds of women were abroad, the big shawls over their  heads serving two purposes: one, to keep their shoulders warm;  the other, to wrap around the baby which each one carried.
 It was  apparent that their clothing consisted only of a shawl, a petticoat,  a wrapper, and shoes.
 Older children were begging, "A ha'penny  for bread, Missus, a ha'penny for bread."
 It was infinitely cold, dreary, and disappointing — so much talk  about more wages and better subsistence, and here the workers had  it and what were they getting?
 — a little more light, perhaps, a few  more pennies a day, the opportunity to buy food a little more  cheaply, a few parks in which they could wander, a bank where  their money earned a fraction more interest.
 But as soon as they  passed beyond the border of another baby, they were in exactly the  same condition as the people beyond the realm of municipal control.
 Municipal ownership was one more thing to throw in the discard.
 One dull, rainy day, glad to leave behind the shrill, crying voices  of the beggars of Glasgow, we boarded a horrid cattle boat bound  for Antwerp.
 The children were all seasick as we bounced and tossed  over the North Sea.
 It was something of a job to handle the three  of them with no nurse, especially when the storm threw them out  of their beds on to the cabin v floor.
 Fortunately they suffered no  fractures, although twenty-six horses in the hold had to be shot  because their legs had been broken.
 We arrived at the Gare du Nord in Paris at the end of another  dismal, bewildering day — toot-toot !
 steam, luggage, brusque snatch-  ing by blue-smocked, black-capped porters, all looking like villains,  jam at the ticket gate, rackety taxi to a hotel on the Left Bank.
 Paris seemed another Glasgow, more like a provincial village than  a great metropolis.
 The atmosphere of petty penury destroyed my  dreams of Parisian gaiety and elegance; even the French children  were dressed in drab, gloomy, black aprons.
 It was four flights up, and the cold penetrated to the marrow of our  bones.
 We could put tons of briquets into the little fireplaces and  never get any heat.
 All the family went into flannel underwear, the  first since my early childhood.
 IOO MARGARET SANGER   I presented Stuart to the superintendent of the district lycee.
 He  demanded a birth certificate, and I had none.
 "But without it how can I tell where he was born or how old he  is?"
 The official seemed to imply that Stuart did not exist.
 "But," I protested, "here he is.
 He's alive."
 "No, no, Madame !
 The law says you must have a birth certificate."
 I had to send him to a private school, which was something of  a drain on the budget.
 Bill found a studio on Montparnasse, just back of the Station.
 Again and again he came home aglow with news of meeting the  great Matisse and other revolutionary painters barely emerging from  obscurity.
 I trailed around to studios and exhibits occasionally, but  I was trying to become articulate on my own subject, and paid scant  attention to those who loomed up later as giants in the artistic world.
 The companionship of Jessie Ashley and Bill Haywood, who had  just come to Paris, was more familiar to me.
 I was also eager to encounter French people and discover their  points of view.
 One of the first was Victor Dave, the last surviving  leader of the French Commune of 1871.
 Thanksgiving Day we  had a little dinner party and invited American friends to greet him.
 He was then over eighty, but still keen and active.
 As the evening  wore on we started him talking about his past experiences and he  held us enthralled until way into the morning, when we all had  breakfast in the apartment.
 The old Communard spoke English far better than any of us  spoke French.
 He was now making three dollars a week by his  linguistic abilities, because he was the sole person the Government  could call upon not only for the language but the dialects of the  Balkans.
 Just the day before he had been translating a new series of  treaties which France was making with the Balkan States in a des-  perate attempt to tie them to the Triple Entente.
 Though he was  a philosophical person who could be gay over his own hardships,  his confidences to us were serious and sad.
 From the agreements  then being drawn up, particularly those with Rumania, he could see  nothing but war ahead, predicting definitely that within five years  all nations would be at each other's throats.
 We newcomers to Eu-  rope could not grasp the meaning of his words, and the residents     I HAVE PROMISES TO KEEP IOI   shrugged their shoulders and said, "He is getting old.
 He cannot  see that we are now beyond war, that people are too intelligent ever  to resort to it again."
 As I look back it is apparent that we heard in France the whole  rumblings of the World War.
 Unrest was in the air as it had been  in the United States, but with a difference.
 Theaters were showing  anti-German plays, revanche placards decorated Napoleon's tomb  in the Invalides, and the rusty black draperies around the shrouded  statue of Strasbourg in the Place de la Concorde pointed a macabre  note.
 These were remembered afterwards; at the time they were  merely part of the Paris scene.
 I realized the disadvantage of not being better acquainted with  the French language, and started in to practice what I knew and  learn more.
 Good fortune brought me in touch with an English-  woman, the wife of the editor of L'Humanite, the organ of the Con-  federation Generate de Travail, the famous C.G.T.
 To her I clung  and at her home I met the Socialist leader, Jean Jaures.
 His English  was bad and my French worse; we had to have an interpreter.
 Doubtless we missed a lot, but even so we found we understood  each other.
 I believe that his assassination on the eve of the war  which he had done so much to prevent proved an irreparable loss  to the cause of peace.
 In my language difficulties Jessie Ashley's fluency was an ever-  present help.
 Together we used to eat in the restaurants frequented  by laborers, who came in groups, keeping their caps on, enjoying the  cheap and good food accompanied by wine.
 Often we were the only  women in the place, always excepting the inevitable cashier.
 Though women were rarely seen at a C.G.T.
 meeting, Victor  Dave took Jessie and me to a particularly impressive one which Bill  Haywood was to address.
 His reputation as a firebrand had preceded  him, and the police were making certain that no riot should ensue;  they were stopping each person who crossed the bridge and de-  manding an account of his destination.
 Our passport was the vener-  able appearance of our escort, whose long white hair hung low  about his head.
 His top hat, that universal badge of respectability,  let us through.
 The vast auditorium was filled with some three thousand French     102 MARGARET SANGER   syndicalists, similar to the American I.W.W.
 's, all standing, all wear-  ing the uniform of the proletariat — black- visored caps and loose  corduroys.
 They were being urged not to take up arms against the  workers of other nations.
 The War, What For?
 discussions in New  York had seemed only a part of the evening conversations.
 Here again  I was listening to protests against government efforts to arouse na-  tional hatred by calling it patriotism.
 I had heard the words so often,  " Workers of the World, Unite," yet at last I was vaguely uneasy be-  cause of the difference in spirit.
 Had any outbreak occurred, the assembled syn-  dicalists would literally have been trapped.
 In England he had been an  agitator for Indian Home Rule and, when the London residence  of the Viceroy of India had been bombed, with other Indians who  might have been implicated, he had fled to France, so long the  sanctuary for anyone who, because of political beliefs, got into  trouble elsewhere.
 No Hindu had ever given a reception in  my honor.
 Trying to appear, however, as though this were a fre-  quent occurrence, I set a time and bravely entered his salon, sup-  ported, as usual, by Jessie.
 As a great concession she had been allowed to  come in, despite the presence of men.
 A little later I was  disputing a point with him and, to bolster up his argument, he gave     I HAVE PROMISES TO KEEP IO3   her a curt command in Hindustani.
 She rose swiftly and soon re-  turned with a well-thumbed and pencil-marked copy of Spencer.
 I  had come to consider Spencer's philosophy old-fogyish.
 His teach-  ings were so mild that I wondered what in the world he could ever  have been hounded for.
 I had been home scarcely more than half an hour and was dress-  ing for dinner when Peggy ran in animatedly.
 "Mother, there are  three soldiers at the door!"
 The bright uniforms of the gendarmes  had taken her fancy, and she was pleased and excited.
 Finally, they explained their presence by saying the concierge had  not sent in the required information to the prefecture.
 When I described the strange visitation to someone familiar with  French customs, I was told that concierges were all ex officio agents  of the police and were compelled to make regular reports of the  activities, no matter how petty, of their tenants.
 These were in-  corporated into the dossiers of all foreigners.
 Thereafter gendarmes lingered in doorways  outside our apartment, and wherever I went I was conscious they  were in the vicinity.
 Because of the predilection of the French for quality rather than  quantity, they had not only adopted the sociological definition of  proletariat, "the prolific ones," a term originally applied by the  Romans to the lowest class of society, but had interpreted it literally.
 The syndicalists in particular had made what they called conscious  generation a part of their policy and principles, and had affiliated  themselves with the Neo-Malthusian movement, which had its head-  quarters in London.
 104 MARGARET SANGER   The parents of France, almost on the same wage scale as those  I had seen in Glasgow, had settled the matter to their own satisfac-  tion.
 Their one or two children were given all the care and advan-  tages of French culture.
 I was struck with the motherly attention  bestowed by our femme de chambre upon her only child.
 She came  promptly to work, but nothing could persuade her to arrive before  Jean had been taken to his school, and nothing could prevent her  leaving promptly at noon to fetch him for his luncheon,  j When Bill Haywood began taking me into the homes of the syn-  dicalists, I found perfect acceptance of family limitation and its re-  lation to labor.
 V'Have you just discovered this?"
 I asked each  woman I met.
 "Oh, no, Maman told me."
 "Well, who told her?"
 "Grandmere, I suppose."
 The Code Napoleon had provided that daughters should inherit  equally with sons and this, to the thrifty peasant mind, had indicated  the desirability of fewer offspring.
 Nobody would marry a girl  unless she had been instructed how to regulate the numbers of her  household as well as the home itself.
 Some of the contraceptive formulas which had been handed down  were almost as good as those of today.
 Although they had to make  simple things, mothers prided themselves on their special recipes  for suppositories as much as on those for pot au feu or wine.
 / All individual Frenchwomen considered this knowledge their in-  dividual right, and, if it failed, abortion, which was still common.
 I  talked about the problems of my own people, but they could give  me no help, merely shrugging their shoulders, apparently glad they  were living in France and not in the United States.
 This independ-  ence of thought and action seemed wholly admirable to me at the  time, and I sang the praises of the system.
 Bill was happy in his studio, but I could find no peace.
 Each day  I stayed, each person I met, made it worse.
 A whole year had been  given over to this inactive, incoherent brooding.
 Family and friends  had been generous in patience.
 I had added to my personal ex-  perience statistics from Glasgow and the little formulas I had gath-  ered from the French peasants.
 With this background I had practi-     I HAVE PROMISES TO KEEP IO5   cally reached the exploding point.
 I could not contain my ideas, I  wanted to get on with what I had to do in the world,  j The last day of the year, December 31, 191 3, Bill and I said  good-by, unaware the parting was to be final.
 With the children I  embarked at Cherbourg for home.
 Chapter Nine     THE WOMAN REBEL     'Oh you daughters of the West!
 O you young and elder daughters!
 you maidens and you   women !
 Never must you be divided, in our ranks you move united,  Pioneers!
 O pioneers!"
 WALT WHITMAN     THE New York was a nice ship and it was not too wintry to  walk about on deck.
 After the children were safely in bed I  paced round and round and absorbed into my being that quiet which  comes to you at sea.
 That it was New Year's Eve added to the poign-  ancy of my emotions but did not obscure the faith within.
 i I knew something must be done to rescue those women who were  voiceless ; someone had to express with white hot intensity the con-  viction that they must be empowered to decide for themselves when  they should fulfill the supreme function of motherhood.
 They had  to be made aware of how they were being shackled, and roused to  mutiny.
 To this end I conceived the idea of a magazine to be called  the Woman Reh A dedicated to the interests of working women.
 Often I had thought of Vashti as the first woman rebel in history.
 Once when her husband, King Ahasuerus, had been showing off to  his people his fine linens, his pillars of marble, his beds of gold and  silver, and all his riches, he had commanded that his beautiful  Queen Vashti also be put on view.
 But she had declined to be ex-  hibited as a possession or chattel.
 Because of her disobedience, which  might set a very bad example to other wives, she had been cast aside  and Ahasuerus had chosen a new bride, the meek and gentle Esther.
 I wanted each woman to be a rebellious Vashti, not an Esther;   106     THE WOMAN REBEL IO7   was she to be merely a washboard with only one song, one song?
 Surely, she should be allowed to develop all her potentialities.^em-  inists were trying to free her from the new economic ideology but  were doing nothing to free her from her biological subs erv 1 *^ 11 ^ to  man, which was the true cause of her enslavement.
 ^ Before gathering friends around me for that help which I must  have in stirring women to sedition, before asking them to believe,  I had to chart my own course.
 Should I bring the cause to the atten-  tion of the people by headlines and front pages?
 Should I follow my  own compulsion regardless of extreme consequences?
 I fully recognized I must refrain from acts which I could not  carry through.
 So many movements had been issuing defiances with-  out any ultimate goal, shooting off a popgun here, a popgun there,  and finally shooting themselves to death.
 They had been too greatly  resembling froth — too noisy with the screech of tin horns and other  cheap instruments instead of the deeper sounds of an outraged,  angry, serious people.
 With as crystal a view as that which had come to me after the  .
 death of Mrs. Sachs_ when I had renounced nursing forever..
 I saw  the path ahead in its civic, national, and even international direc-  tion — a panorama of things to be.
 Fired with this vision, I went into  the lounge and wrote and wrote page after page until the hours of  daylight.
 Having settled the principles, I left the details to work themselves  out.
 I realized that a price must be paid for honest thinking — a price  for everything.
 Though I did not know exactly how I was to pre-  pare myself, what turn events might take, or what I might be called  upon to do, the future in its larger aspects has actually developed as  I saw it that night.
 The same thoughts kept repeating themselves over and over dur-  ing the remainder of the otherwise uneventful voyage.
 As soon as  possible after reaching New York, I rented an inexpensive little flat  on Post Avenue near Dyckman Street, so far out on the upper end  of Manhattan that even the Broadway subway trains managed to  burrow their way into sunlight and fresh air.
 My dining room was  my office, the table my desk.
 A new movement was starting, and the baby had to have a name.
 108 MARGARET SANGER   It did not belong to Socialism nor was it in the labor field, and it  had much more to it than just the prevention of conception.
 As a  few companions were sitting with me one evening we debated in  turn voluntary parenthood, voluntary motherhood, the new mother-  hood, constructive generation, and new generation.
 The terms al-  ready in use — Neo-Malthusianism, Family Limitation, and Con-  scious Generation seemed stuffy and lacked popular appeal.
 The word control was good, but I did not like limitation — that  was too limiting.
 I was not advocating a one-child or two-child sys-  tem as in France, /nor did( I wholeheartedly agree with the English  Neo-Malthusians whose concern was almost entirely with limitation  for economic reasons.
 My idea of control was bigger and freer.
 I  wanted family in it, yet family control did not sound right.
 We  tried population control, race control, and birth rate control.
 Then  someone suggested, "Drop the rate."
 Birth control was the answer;  we knew we had it.
 Our work for that day was done and everybody  picked up his hat and went home.
 jThe baby was named.
 When I first announced that I was going to publish a maga-  zine, "Where are you going to get the money?"
 was volleyed at  me from all sides.
 I did not know, but I was certain of its coming  somehow.
 Equally important was moral support.
 Those same young  friends and I founded a little society, grandly titled the National  Birth Control League, sought aid from enthusiasts for other causes,  turning first to the Feminists because they seemed our natural allies.
 Armed with leaflets we went to Cooper Union to tell them that in  the Woman Rebel they would have an opportunity to express their  sentiments.
 [Charlotte Perkins Gilman, the Feminist leader, was trying to in-  spire women in this country to have a deeper meaning in their lives,  which to her signified more than getting the vote.
 Nevertheless, at  that time I struck no responsive chord from her or from such .
 in-  telligent co-workers as Crystal Eastman, Marie Howe, or Henrietta  Rodman.
 It seemed unbelievable they could be serious in occupying  themselves with what I regarded as trivialities when mothers within  a stone's throw of their meetings were dying shocking deaths.
 Who cared whether a woman kept her Christian name — Mary  Smith instead of Mrs. John Jones?
 Who cared whether she wore     THE WOMAN REBEL I(X)   her wedding ring?
 Who cared about her demand for the right to  work?
 Hundreds of thousands of laundresses, cloakmakers, scrub  women, servants, telephone girls, shop workers would gladly have  changed places with the Feminists in return for the right to have  leisure, to be lazy a little now and then..' When I suggested that the  basis of Feminism might be the right to be a mother regardless of  church or state, their inherited prejudices were instantly aroused.
 They were still subject to the age-old, masculine atmosphere com-  pounded of protection and dominance.^   Disappointed in that quarter I turned to the Socialists and trade  unionists, trusting they would appreciate the importance of family  limitation in the kind of civilization towards which they were stum-  bling.
 Notices were sent to The Masses, Mother Earth, The Call,  The Arm and Hammer, The Liberator, all names echoing the spirit  which had quickened them.
 .
 Shortly I had several hundred subscriptions to the Woman Rebel,  paid up in advance at the rate of a dollar a year, the period for  which I had made my plans.
 Proceeds were to go into a separate  revolving account, scrupulously kept.
 Unlike so many ephemeral  periodicals, mine was not to flare up and spark out before it had  functioned, leaving its subscribers with only a few issues when they  were entitled to more.
 Eventually we had a mailing list of about two  thousand, but five, ten, even fifty copies often went in a bundle to be  distributed without charge to some labor organization.
 \   I was solely responsible for the magazine financially, legally, and  morally; I was editor, manager, circulation department, bookkeeper,  and I paid the printer's bill.
 But any cause that has not helpers is  losing out.
 So many men and women secretaries, stenographers,  clerks, used to come in of an evening that I could not find room  for all.
 Some typed, some addressed envelopes, some went to li-  braries and looked up things for us to use, some wrote articles,  though seldom signing their own names.
 [ Not one penny ever had  to go for salaries, because service was given freely.
 In March, 1914, appeared the first issue of the Woman Rebel,  eight pages on cheap paper, copied from the French style, mailed  first class in the city and expressed outside.
 My initial declaration  of the right of the individual was the slogan "No Gods, No Mas-     HO MARGARET SANGER   ters."
 Gods, not God.
 I wanted that word to go beyond religion  and also stop turning idols, heroes, leaders into gods.
 I defined a woman's duty, "To look the world in the face with a  go-to-hell look in the eyes ; to have an idea ; to speak and act in defi-  ance of convention."
 It was a marvelous time to say what we wished.
 All America was a Hyde Park corner as far as criticism and chal-  lenging thought were concerned.
 We advocated direct action and  took up the burning questions of the day.
 With a fine sense of irony  we put anti-capitalist soapbox oratory in print.
 I do not know  whether the financiers we denounced would have been tolerant or  resentful of our onslaughts had they read them, or as full of passion  for their cause as we for ours.
 Perhaps they too will have forgotten  that emotion now.
 My daily routine always started with looking over the pile of  mail, and one morning my attention was caught by an unstamped  official envelope from the New York Post Office.
 I tore it open.
 / Dear Madam, You are hereby notified that the Solicitor of the  /Post Office Department has decided that the Woman Rebel for March,  \1914, is unmailable under Section 489, Postal Laws and Regulations.
 E. M. Morgan, Postmaster.
 I reread the letter.
 It was so unexpected that at first the signifi-  cance did not sink in.
 I had given no contraceptive information; I  had merely announced that I intended to do so.
 Then I began to  realize that no mention was made of any special article or articles.
 I wrote Mr. Morgan and asked him to state what specifically had  offended, thereby assisting me in my future course.
 His reply simply  repeated that the March issue was unmailable.
 I had anticipated objections from religious bodies, but believed  with father, "Anything you want can be accomplished by putting a  little piece of paper into the ballot box."
 Therefore, to have our in-  significant magazine stopped by the big, strong United States Gov-  ernment seemed so ludicrous as almost to make us feel important.
 To the newspaper world this was news, but not one of the dailies  j picked it out as an infringement of a free press.
 The Sun carried a  ^headline, " 'WOMAN REBEL' BARRED FROM MAILS."
 And     THE WOMAN REBEL III     underneath the comment, "Too bad.
 The case should be reversed.
 They  should be barred from her and spelled differently."
 VV, ,v\\ .&gt;V&gt; -&gt;V\ .
 VV\ .
 XV V - &gt;V \ .
 &gt;\\ -\V\ ,&gt;VV AVV ,\V\ ,&gt;V\ J   'iit 'tit Hi Hi Hi tit tit Hi it/ tit 'tit tit tit "   )   AT Montreal I found comfort and refuge.
 In fact, on any road  jT\.
 I took men and women who knew about the Woman Rebel  came to my aid.
 I shall never forget the generosity of the Baineses who  met me at the train and welcomed me to their home.
 They had been  friends of Walt Whitman and still honored "his" memory.
 I sat at  the table where "he" had sat, and in "his" chair.
 Among their many  kindnesses they gave me an introduction to Edward Carpenter, also  mentioned in awed tones, leader of the Whitman group in England  and author of Love's Coming of Age, which was then on every mod-  ern bookshelf.
 Since I was charged with felony I could be extradited.
 I was  obliged, therefore, in buying my passage, to choose a new name.
 No  sooner had I selected the atrociously ugly "Bertha Watson," which  seemed to rob me of femininity, than I wanted to be rid of it.
 But  once having adopted it I could not escape.
 I boarded the RMS Virginian, laden with munitions, food, Eng-  lishmen returning home for war duty, and Canadians going over.
 Even before the printing of Family Limitation had begun in August,  I had arranged a key message which would release all the pamphlets  simultaneously whenever it should be received by any of four trusted  lieutenants.
 In case one should be arrested, another ill, or a third  die, still everything would go forward as provided for.
 Three days   121     122 MARGARET SANGER   out of Montreal I sent a cable and shortly had one in reply that the  program was being executed as planned.
 My soul was sick and my  heart empty for those I loved; the one gleam in this dreadful night  of despair was the faint hope that my efforts might, perhaps, make  Peggy's future easier.
 The government official examining credentials at Liverpool said  sternly, "England is at war, Madam.
 You can't expect us to let you  through.
 We're sending back people without passports every day, and  I can't make an exception in your case."
 But I had Good Luck as an ally; she comes so often to help in  emergencies.
 A shipboard acquaintance telephoned and pulled wires,  a procedure not so common in England as in the United States.
 On  his guarantee that I would get a passport from the American Em-  bassy immediately on reaching London I was allowed to enter.
 I wound through dirty streets in a cab to the Adelphi Palace.
 It  rained all day, the wind blew, its howling came through the windows  and crept down the chimney.
 Homesickness swept over me worse  than ever before or since.
 I knew it would not do to "set and think"  as the Quakers say, so I wandered about in the business district, try-  ing to adjust my mind to the prices marked in the store windows in  order to have some idea of what they were in dollars and cents.
 I  viewed church architecture and the Cathedral, which was not ex-  pected to be finished for fifty years.
 It did not look so splendid, but  since everything about it was closed I really could not tell.
 Liverpool was a quaint city.
 I liked its weathered brick houses,  and the evenness and settled feeling, as though the people in them  planned to remain where they were for time everlasting.
 The women  of the poor were unconcernedly wearing on the streets dresses orig-  inally made for bustles, hats with feathers, caricatures which should  have been stuffed away in attics forty years before.
 Bertha Watson had a letter to the local Fabian Society, and at six  I went to the Clarion Cafe, where it foregathered each Friday.
 I pre-  sented her letter, was welcomed heartily, and invited to the discussion.
 I found the English then and later polite in speech and action, toler-  ant in listening.
 One of the members helped me to locate temporary  rooms while I waited for the arrival of letters and messages from the  United States.
 These lodgings were in the home of gentle, middle-     WE SPEAK THE SAME GOOD TONGUE 1 23   class people to whom I paid thirty shillings a week, including break-  fast and dinner.
 I shall always be glad I went to that meeting, because there I met  Lorenzo Portet, once companion of Francisco Ferrer and now heir  to his educational work, which both believed was the key to Spanish  emancipation.
 After the attempted assassination of Alfonso XIII and Victoria  of England, the Government had arrested twenty-five hundred Span-  iards having republican ideas, among them Ferrer.
 His school had  been closed and he had been jailed.
 When he had been eventually re-  leased, he had still been determined to educate for universal peace  by means of economic justice.
 Accordingly, as Portet stated it, he  had reopened a school for all Spain by publishing labor texts at Barce-  lona.
 This again had earned him no reward from a grateful Govern-  ment.
 In 1909 he had been arrested in a purge of republicans, stood  up against a wall and shot, and his body thrown into a ditch.
 Ferrer had left his money to Portet, who was now fulfilling his  trust by feeding the country with modern scientific translations from  Italy, France, and England.
 He was a man of middle height and  weight whose alert glance summed you up with an accuracy occa-  sionally disturbing.
 After our initial encounter he called on me with  punctiliousness and formality, and produced an article from a New  York magazine which carried the story of the indictment of Mar-  garet Sanger.
 "This is you?"
 he questioned with the jumping of all  fact which is termed intuition.
 Portet, a born teacher, was then instructing youth at the Uni-  versity of Liverpool in Spanish.
 No human being I ever knew could  explain with such infinite pains the details of a subject.
 He placed  your own opposition before you, marshaled it in all its strength, and  then annihilated every point, one by one.
 His humorous cynicism was  most baffling to those who were merely emotional converts to better  worlds.
 "Civilization?"
 he might say, "Mainly a question of good  roads."
 Sometimes in the midst of those long, drab, November weeks I  escaped to Wales, where there were endless lanes, winding and hard,  with very few carts, and all very quiet.
 Even here were Carnegie li-  braries, one of them turned into a restaurant.
 I went into the houses     124 MARGARET SANGER   of the smelting workers at Green Brombo, Wexham, all lovely, mi-  nute, stone cottages of two or three rooms, huddled closely together,  charming with their walks and walls and flower gardens.
 The folk  were slow, deliberate, simple.
 Liverpool was only a junction; London was my terminus.
 There  I could study at the British Museum, and meet the Neo-Malthusians.
 Towards the end of the month I rolled up to London through miles  of chimney-potted suburbs; it continued rainy and foggy, but still  there was a friendly atmosphere in the air.
 I seemed to be coming to  a second home.
 My first quarters were on the top floor of a "bed and breakfast"  on Torrington Square, just back of the British Museum.
 I looked  out on little rows of trees, iron fences, steps going up to all the  houses.
 There was but one bathroom and to use it cost extra.
 Every  morning about seven came a knock, and when I opened the door I  discovered a midget jug of hot water outside.
 I was supposed to break  the ice on my large pitcher, mix the two, and pour all into my tin  tub, the back of which rose behind me like a throne.
 After this winter  I realized how the British had acquired their well-known moral  courage.
 I had no fireplace, but two floors below was an empty room with  a grate.
 Occasionally I indulged myself in the luxury of renting it  for the evening, and of buying wood to keep myself warm while I  worked.
 I made up for it by not having the slatternly Cockney maid  bring up tea, and also went each morning to the basement dining  room for my breakfast, thereby saving a shilling a week.
 It was not  long before I was stricken by the first digestive upset I had ever had,  and was obliged to call in an American doctor.
 He looked me over  casually and then, without further examination, asked, "Have you  been drinking English coffee?"
 "Why, yes."
 "Well, give it up.
 The English can't make coffee ; they only know  how to make tea.
 Take up English tea."
 I followed his advice and from that time on, instead of carrying  my own eating habits with me, have tried to adjust myself to the  food of the country where I happened to be.
 In this way I g&amp;t along  much better,     WE SPEAK THE SAME GOOD TONGUE 1 25   Sundays I attended concerts or visited art galleries, though since  it was war time disappointingly few pictures were being shown.
 Each  week day, however, found me at the British Museum, going in with  the opening of the gates in the morning.
 In order to secure permis-  sion to work, you had to have a card, but once you obtained it, you  could take a special seat and books were reserved for you.
 My aim  was to present my case from all angles, to make the trial soundly his-  torical so that birth control would be seriously discussed in America.
 Therefore, I read avidly and voluminously many weighty tomes, and  turned carefully the yellowed, brittle pages of pamphlets and broad-  sides, finding much that was dull, much that was irrelevant, but also  much that was amusing, if only for the ponderous manner of its ex-  pression.
 In the end I had a picture of what had gone before.
 The father of family limitation was Thomas Robert Malthus,  born in 1766 at the Rookery, near Dorking, Surrey.
 In 1798 this  curate of Albury published his Principle of Population and in the  initial chapter laid down his famous postulates : "first, that food  is necessary to the existence of ihan; second, that the passion be-  tween the sexes is necessary, and will remain nearly in its present  state.
 .
 .
 ."
 Consequently the unrestrained fertility of the human  race was certain to outstrip the available fruits of the earth, and,  although the natural checks of war, disease, and privation had con-  trolled population for centuries, they had brought misery, disaster,  and death in their train.
 His solution was voluntary and intelligent  control of the birth rate by means of late marriage, which left few  years for childbearing.
 However, human nature is such that Malthus  might preach forever without anyone's heeding his advice.
 Not un-  til the profound economic depression which followed the Napoleonic  Wars were people worried into concern over surplus population.
 To John Stuart Mill the production of large families was to be re-  garded in the same light as drunkenness or any other physical excess.
 In the very first edition of his Political Economy he spoke of "pru-  dence, by which either marriages are sparingly contracted, or care is  taken that children beyond a certain number shall not be the fruit,"  and concluded that "the grand practical problem is to find the means  of limiting the number of births."
 But he left it merely as a grand,  practical problem.
 126 MARGARET SANGER   Francis Place, the master tailor of Charing Cross, was born in a  private debtors' prison kept by his father in Vinegar Yard.
 He was  the first to suggest the idea of contraception as a remedy for pov-  erty, but was more practical in his preaching than in his perform-  ance, fathering as he did fifteen children.
 In 1822 he published Illus-  trations and Proofs of the Principle of Population:   If, above all, it were once clearly understood, that it was not dis-  reputable for married persons to avail themselves of such precaution-  ary means as would, without being injurious to health, or destructive  of female delicacy, prevent conception, a sufficient check might at  once be given to the increase of population beyond the means of sub-  sistence ; vice and misery, to a prodigious extent, might be removed  from society, and the object of Mr. Malthus, Mr. Godwin, and of  every philanthropic person, be promoted.
 Place had educated himself on Adam Smith, Locke, Hume,  Thomas Paine, and Burke.
 To his remarkable library came many  notable thinkers and men of letters.
 Among them was Robert Owen,  the textile industrialist, who, in his Moral Physiology, offered openly  a method of contraception :   I sit down to write a little treatise, which will subject me to abuse  from the self-righteous, to misrepresentation from the hypocritical,  and to reproach even from the honestly prejudiced.
 He spoke to young men and women who still believed in virtue  and happiness.
 "A human being is a puppet, a slave, if his ignorance  is to be the safeguard of his virtue."
 In reply to the accusation that  coitus interruptus was unnatural, he pointed out that the thwarting  of any human wish or impulse might be so termed.
 "If this trifling  restraint is to be called unnatural, what shall be said of celibacy?"
 Owen in his youth had been impressed by the sufferings of the  working classes, and, in a first effort to lighten the burden of his em-  ployees, had instituted many reforms in the New Lanark Mills, him-  self prospering materially in so doing ; he was less successful when he  emigrated to the United States and at New Harmony, Indiana, estab-  lished a short-lived communal colony.
 However, his coming to  America had at least one important result.
 His book influenced Doctor  Charles Knowlton of Boston to write a tract entitled Fruits of Phi^     WE SPEAK THE SAME GOOD TONGUE 127   losophy in which he recommended a chemical formula and other  methods to prevent conception.
 I had not found a trace of this in my  previous research, even in Boston where it had been published.
 Knowlton's reaffirmation of the desirability both from a political  and social point of view for mankind to be able to limit at will the  number of offspring without sacrificing the attendant gratification  of the reproductive instinct, would have been little noticed had it not  been for the repercussion in England forty years later.
 During the early Victorian uprush of industrialism a man's chil-  dren had been breadwinners, and family limitation had naturally  lapsed.
 But when humanitarian legislation had begun to rescue chil-  dren from factories, the population specter had shown itself once  more.
 In 1 86 1 was formed the Malthusian League, designed to influence  public opinion and overcome the prevailing misconception of Mal-  thusianism, and in 1876 a Bristol bookseller brought out an English  edition of Fruits of Philosophy.
 He was promptly arrested on the  charge of publishing an obscene book, and sentence was suspended  on his plea of guilty.
 The brilliant rationalist and freethinker, Charles Bradlaugh, a re-  doubtable personality, together with Annie Besant, later the renowned  Theosophist but then a young rebel, started a printing partnership and  sold the pamphlet.
 Although not approving it in all its details they  determined to contest the right to publish it and to prove that pre-  vention of conception was not obscene.
 Extraordinary interest was aroused in their trial before Lord  Chief Justice Cockburn and a special jury.
 The Solicitor General  himself appeared as chief counsel for the prosecution.
 Taking a copy  of Fruits of Philosophy in his hands he opened it solemnly and said,  "It is really extremely painful to me," then hesitating, "very painful  to me to have to read this."
 But he did so.
 Bradlaugh and Besant conducted their own defense.
 The latter  with eloquence and astonishing poise held the admiring attention of  the court for two days.
 Nevertheless, both were convicted of defam-  ing the morals of the public, sentenced to six months in jail and a  thousand-dollar fine, and required to put up guarantees of twenty-  five hundred dollars for good behavior during the next two years.
 128 MARGARET SANGER   The case was immediately appealed.
 Fortunately the upper court  dismissed it on a technicality, because, specific evidence of obscenity  was not included; if the words were polluting they had to appear in  the record.
 4   This decision settled for all time in England that contraception  was not to be classed among the obscenities.
 As a result, new life  was injected into the Malthusian League and its name was changed  to the Neo-Malthusian Society.
 In the first issue of its monthly jour-  nal it set forth a modest claim : "We have the ONLY REMEDY that  the disease of society can be cured by."
 Instead of the impractical ad-  vice of Malthus to marry late, the Neo-Malthusians advised early  marriage, the use of contraceptive methods, and children born ac-  cording to the earning capacity of the father ; a man's station in life  should determine the number of his children.
 Furthermore, they in-  tended one by one to "prick the flimsy bubbles of emigration, lessened  production, and home colonization, which are from time to time put  forward."
 The emphasis was still placed on the social and economic  aspects rather than the personal tragedies of women.
 That was in 1876; now in 1914 the Drysdales, Dr. C. V. and  his wife, Bessie, were the guiding spirits of the Society.
 They had a  long heritage of Malthusianism behind them ; the uncle of the former,  Dr. George Drysdale, fresh from Edinburgh in 1854, had anony-  mously published his Elements of Social Science, which had gone  into fifteen languages.
 He had even himself studied Chinese to en-  sure a reasonably accurate translation in that tongue.
 In the darkest  days of Victorianism, this young physician had included the New  Woman in his interpretation of Malthus.
 Both he and his brother  Charles, also a physician, had been in love with Alice Vickery, who  had chosen the latter and borne him a son, the present C.V.   Alice Vickery was as great in her day as Mary Wollstonecraft in  hers.
 After a tremendous struggle, which included getting her de-  gree in Dublin and her training in Paris, she had proved her right to  enter the medical profession, and had become the first woman doctor  in England.
 My keenest desire was to get in touch with the Drysdales.
 They  invited me to tea at their offices — offices in the English sense, not  ours.
 I squelched through the inevitable rain to Queen Anne's Cham-     WE SPEAK THE SAME GOOD TONGUE 120,   bers and was astonished to find nothing on the door except Dr. C. V.  Drysdale's name.
 The term Malthusian was not considered proper  according to the landlord's ideas of propriety.
 In fact, throughout  England the word brought up antagonism.
 People crossed the street  to avoid it.
 I entered a sitting room, gay with chintz-covered chairs and a. sofa,  pillows at the back, quite fitted to Queen Anne's own day.
 A fire was  burning cheerily, yet even this was not so welcome as the open arms  and excitement with which I was greeted, not only by the Drysdales  but also by Dr. Binnie Dunlop, dark, Scotch, thin, and dapper, in-  tellectually enthusiastic although not emotionally so ; by Olive John-  ston, the faithful secretary who had worked for many years with  the Drysdales ; and by F. W. Stella Browne, an ardent Feminist whose  faintly florid face, hair never quite white, and indefatigable vivacity  are the same a quarter of a century later.
 Many women in causes  are like that ; something in their spirit keeps them forever young.
 Dr. Drysdale was then in his early forties, slender, fair, inclined  to be bald.
 In his ebullience he was not at all British, but his pleas-  ing, warm, and courteous personality was British at its best.
 Bessie  Drysdale, about her husband's age, was the practical member, dispens-  ing charming hospitality.
 The others were like an army meeting me,  but she brought up the rear with tea and cakes and comforting  things.
 It seemed to me I had seen them and known them all before.
 I was  immediately certain I had come to the right place.
 In the United  States I had been alone, pulling against all whose broad, general  principles were the same as mine but who disapproved of my actions.
 But these new friends saw eye to eye with me.
 Instead of heaping  criticism and fears upon me, they offered all the force of an inter-  national organization as well as their encyclopedic minds to back  me up.
 The policy of the Neo-Malthusians had been to educate the edu-  cators.
 They believed that once the practice of family limitation had  been established among the well-to-do and socially prominent, it  would be taken up by the lower strata.
 They were not discouraged,  although after almost forty years success seemed as far away as  ever; the working classes not only evinced no desire for the benefits     I30 MARGARET SANGER   of family limitation, but did not even know such a thing existed.
 Everybody in the room appreciated my rebellion and extended con-  gratulations on a name having been coined which was so simple and  easy to understand as birth control.
 When I told them how I had  managed the distribution of the Family Limitation pamphlets Dr.  Drysdale stood up impetuously and said, "Oh, would to God we had  a Comstock law !
 There's nothing can so stir the British people as a  bad law.
 Then they will do something to change it !"
 That afternoon was one of the most encouraging and delightful  of my life.
 The warmth of my reception strengthened me to face the  future.
 It lessened my dreadful homesickness and curbed the ever-  growing impulse to escape from war-sick London and hurry back to  the children.
 During my stay I saw much of the Drysdales and their  group, and between us all grew up a close kinship which has lasted  through the stormy years.
 I like to think of London at this time chiefly because of all .my new  friends and the laughter they brought me.
 Of late there had been  little of it in my life, but with every friend I had in England — more  than with any other people I have ever known — I laughed, and this  laughter knit and welded the bonds of comradeship.
 One day in the British Museum I was standing by the catalogs,  which were in the form of books, waiting until a man near me fin-  ished the volume I wanted to consult.
 I glanced at him idly, then  more closely, thinking I identified the profile from pictures I had  seen.
 When he had put the book down I ventured tentatively, "Aren't  you Edward Carpenter?"
 Almost without looking at me he replied, "Yes, and aren't you  Margaret Sanger?"
 It was a shock for Bertha Watson to hear this name repeated out  loud in a public place.
 However, Mr. Carpenter's recognition was  readily explainable.
 He had been more or less prepared to see me  because he had already received my letter and had that morning at  my rooming house been told I never returned from the British Mu-  seum until evening.
 Since we could not talk in this hall of silence,  we adjourned to the Egyptian Room, and then to lunch.
 He was hu-  man, full of wit, fun, and humor — a live person who exuded mag-  netism.
 WE SPEAK THE SAME GOOD TONGUE I3I   Edward Carpenter reassured me that what I was doing was not  merely of the present but belonged even more to the future.
 From  this fine spirit I drew confirmation of the purity of my endeavor,  something essential for me to take back to America if others there  were to experience the same sense of justification.
 We beyond the  Atlantic were still uncertain of our ethics, and even of our morals.
 We needed the sanction of British public opinion and the approval  of their great philosophers, so that we could be strong in our beliefs.
 During the first weeks in England I did not feel vehemently about  the War, especially as signs were displayed everywhere, "Business  as usual."
 I supposed it would be a little flurry, soon over.
 War talk,  of course, was universal.
 The German espionage system was much  discussed.
 I wondered whether it were not the general characteristic  of the German always to observe and be accurate in detail which  made his information valuable.
 He did the same thing in the United  States, where nobody thought of calling him a spy.
 Everywhere  women were knitting socks and mitts, but I was more impressed by  the fact they were smoking in hotel lobbies — a new indication of  emancipation to me — and even rolling their own cigarettes.
 If a  woman came in for tea, without a word being said, a bell hop pro-  duced her own box of tobacco.
 When she left, it was returned to its  proper place.
 As the months went on, however, to be an American became almost  as unlucky as to be a German.
 Whoever wished to remain safely in  England must agree with England, give over every vestige of in-  dependent thinking or free expression.
 Wherever I went I heard  mention of "Traitorous America."
 At one dining-car table a gray-  haired Englishman, unaware of my nationality, asserted, "Ameri-  cans will do anything for money."
 "Yes," agreed his companion.
 "They do not care whom their  bullets kill.
 They get paid for them."
 He was a young Dutchman,  apparently just returned from the East Indies, and the conversation  between the two developed briskly.
 Americans were a "mixed breed  without souls ; they had none of the qualities which make a nation  great — no traditions, history, art, music, absolutely nothing but  their money; they had to come to Europe for everything — to Eng-  land for laws, customs, and morals, to France for fashions and arts ;     I32 MARGARET SANGER   they were human leeches fastened on Europe without incentive, orig-  inality, or creative ability ; they — "   I interrupted, "What do you want America to do?
 Why should  she get into this?
 Does she owe loyalty to England or France or  Russia?"
 "Oh, no, but for Belgium.
 America signed the Hague Treaty with  the rest of us, and she has not stood by it."
 To this I advanced the argument, "We Americans are not like  Europeans.
 We are a heterogeneous mixture of all the fighting forces  and nations of the world.
 We include the Irish who hate England,  and Jews who hardly can be said to love Russia.
 A large part of our  population — industrious, civil, reliable, and prosperous — are Ger-  mans, with whom our Scandinavians are sympathetic.
 Who then have  we to ally against Germany ?
 And why ?
 — a very small far-back men-  tion of gratitude to France for her help in our Revolution against  British rule — and the Statue of Liberty."
 On the whole I came more nearly being a nationalist when I left  England than when I went there.
 I had to do such battle to explain  the United States that, almost involuntarily, I felt myself becoming  less of an internationalist.
 It was a strange feeling, as though some-  body you knew and loved were being criticized, and you took up the  cudgels in defense.
 Chapter Eleven     HAVELOCK ELLIS     "He zvho ascends to mountain-tops shall find  Their loftiest peaks most wrapt in clouds and snow;  Round him, are icy rocks, and loudly blow  Contending tempests on his naked head."
 LORD BYRON     i , &gt;\&gt; &gt;\ \ fff .
 tff, ttf .
 i   AS Christmas approached, my loneliness for the children increased.
 XJLThis was their particular time.
 I had messages from and about  them, but these could not give the small, intimate details ; the Atlantic  was a broad span, seeming more vast to letter writers.
 I missed their  voices, their caresses, even their little quarrels.
 I almost wondered  whether solitary confinement in prison were not preferable to my  present isolation.
 In the midst of this stark yearning to be with them and share their  tree I received a cordial note from Havelock Ellis asking me to come  to tea.
 With kindly foresight he had given me explicit directions how  to reach Fourteen Dover Mansions in Brixton across the Thames.
 I  boarded a crowded bus at Oxford Circus.
 Though it was a miserable  day near the dark end of 1914, the spirit of Christmas was in the air  and everyone was laden with beribboned bundles and bright pack-  ages.
 Looking askance at the police station which occupied the lower  floor I climbed up the stairs, and, with the shyness of an adolescent,  full of fears and uncertainties, lifted the huge brass knocker.
 The  figure of Ellis himself appeared in the door.
 He seemed a giant in  stature, a lovely, simple man in loose-fitting clothes, with powerful  head and wonderful smile.
 He was fifty-five then, but that head will  never change — the shock of white hair, the venerable beard, shaggy   133     134 MARGARET SANGER   though well-kept, the wide, expressive mouth and deep-set eyes, sad  even in spite of the humorous twinkle always latent.
 I was conscious immediately that I was in the presence of a great  man, yet I was startled at first by his voice as he welcomed me in.
 It was typically English, high and thin.
 I once talked to a prisoner  at Sing Sing who had been in the death house for three years and  could speak only in whispers thereafter.
 Ellis had been a hermit for  twenty-five.
 He had lived in the Bush in Australia, and later se-  cluded himself in his study.
 Nevertheless, the importance of what  he had to say much more than made up for the instrument which  conveyed it.
 He led me to the living room through which the cheerless twilight  of a winter afternoon in London barely penetrated, and seated me  before a little gas fire.
 Some rooms impress you as ghastly cold even  when hot.
 This one, though lacking central heating, had the warmth  of many books.
 He lit two candles on the mantel, which flickered  softly over his features, giving him the aspect of a seer.
 We sat down and quiet fell.
 I tried a few aimless remarks but I  stuttered with embarrassment.
 Ellis was still.
 Small talk was not  possible with him; you had to utter only the deepest truths within  you.
 No other human being could be so silent and remain so poised  and calm in silence.
 While Ellis was preparing tea in the kitchen he left me to look over  his library and the most recent news from America.
 He had laid out  and marked certain pertinent items which he thought might not have  come to my attention.
 This, I later found, was one of his most en-  dearing characteristics.
 He always entered into the life of the other  person in little details, never forgetting even the kind of bread or  olives, fruits or wines, you preferred.
 His detachment was not in-  compatible with sympathy.
 Soon appeared a large tray, laden with tea, cakes, and bread and  butter, and we sat down before the humming flame and talked and  talked ; and as we talked we wove into our lives an intangible web of  mutual interests.
 I began to realize then that the men who are truly  great are the easiest to meet and understand.
 After those first few  moments I was at peace, and content as I had never been before.
 Entirely unaware of the reverence he aroused, Ellis pasted no labels     HAVELOCK ELLIS 1 35   on himself, had no poses, made no effort to impress.
 He was simply,  quite un-self consciously, what he was.
 When he asked me to describe the details of how I had locked  horns with the law, I spoke glowingly of the heartening approval  which the Drysdales had just given me.
 He did not show the same  enthusiasm ; in fact he was rather concerned, and not so ready with  praise for my lack of respect for the established order, believing so  strongly in my case that he wanted me to avoid mistakes.
 I think his  influence was always more or less subduing and moderating; he  tried to get me, too, to take the middle road.
 Though he occasion-  ally alluded to some of the more amusing phases of the trial of his  own work, he had pushed it into the back of his mind.
 This monumental study intended for doctors and psychologists  had been projected when Ellis was a medical student of nineteen.
 But  his short practice of medicine, his editing of the Mermaid Series of  Old British Dramatists, and the preparation of several sociological  treatises, had intervened before, in 1898, Sexual Inversion, the first  volume, had appeared.
 George Bedborough, printer, had been ar-  rested for selling a copy, and charged with "publishing an obscene  libel with the intention of corrupting the laws of Her Majesty's  subjects."
 Ellis, the scholar, preferred to ignore controversy; the  martyr's crown would not have coincided favorably with calm and  dispassionate research.
 Judging it merely stupid of the British Gov-  ernment to have pushed the case to trial, he suspended the sale of  the volume immediately, so disappointed that his own countrymen  did not understand his motives that he stated then and there he  would not have his other volumes published in England, and he  never has.
 He, beyond any other person, has been able to clarify the ques-  tion of sex, and free it from the smudginess connected with it from  the beginning of Christianity, raise it from the dark cellar, set it on  a higher plane.
 That has been his great contribution.
 Like an alche-  mist, he transmuted the psychic disturbance which had followed my  reading of his books into a spiritual essence.
 We had many things to discuss, but suddenly it dawned upon me  that I must have outstayed my time.
 Seven o'clock struck before I  realized how late it was.
 It had seemed so short to me.
 136 MARGARET SANGER   I was not excited as I went back through the heavy fog to my  own dull little room.
 My emotion was too deep for that.
 I felt as  though I had been exalted into a hitherto undreamed-of world.
 Some of my new friends, Guy Aldred, Henry Sara, and Rose  Witcop, invited me to tea with them Christmas Eve.
 Rose was de-  liberate in her movements, tall and dark, with straight black hair  falling low over her forehead and caught at the nape of the neck.
 She and Guy were both ardent pacifists.
 A few days earlier I had  overheard them reproving their son, aged six, for suggesting that  Santa Claus bring him some lead soldiers.
 He had seen uniforms in  every street and toy replicas in every shop window; all little boys  were having them.
 I had not been able to send many presents to my  children, and before leaving the house slipped into his room.
 He was  sound asleep and his clothes were stretched out neatly at the foot of  his bed.
 Outraging my own principles I tucked a box of soldiers un-  der the blanket so that he might see this martial array the first thing  in the morning.
 Rose and Guy were thoroughly disgusted with me.
 Much that evening combined to stir me.
 Carol singers paraded  Torrington Square, group after group lifting plaintive voices in Good  King Wenceslas and We Three Kings of Orient Are.
 I was head-  achy but I went out and strolled about the streets to see Merrie Eng-  land at Yuletide.
 I had on so much clothing that I could scarcely  walk, and still I was icy cold.
 It was just about a year since I had left  France with the children, never to be reunited with Bill.
 Since I am slow in my decisions and cannot separate myself from  past emotions quickly, all breaches must come gradually.
 A measure  of frustration is an inevitable accompaniment to endeavor.
 My mar-  riage had not been unhappy; I had not let it be.
 It had not failed  because of lack of love, romance, wealth, respect, or any of those  qualities which were supposed to cause marital rifts, but because the  interests of each had widened beyond those of the other.
 Develop-  ment had proceeded so fast that our lives had diverged, due to that  very growth which we had sought for each other.
 I could not live  with a human being conscious that my necessities were thwarting or  dwarfing his progress.
 It had been a crowded year, encompassing the heights and depths     HAVELOCK ELLIS 137   of feeling.
 Christmas Eve was too much for me.
 I went back again  and sat, wondering whether the children were well and contented.
 The  next morning came a cable from them, flowers from Bill, and a nice  note from Havelock Ellis.
 Thereafter Havelock aided me immensely in my studies by guid-  ing my reading.
 Tuesdays and Fridays were his days at the British  Museum, and he often left little messages at my seat, listing helpful  articles or offering suggestions as to books which might assist me in  the particular aspect I was then engaged upon.
 If when traveling about with him on the tram, going to a concert,  shopping for coffee and cigarettes outside the Museum, a thought  came to him, he would pull out a bit of paper and jot down notes.
 That was how he compiled his material for books, gathering it piece-  meal and storing it away in envelopes.
 Anything on the dance went  into the dance envelope, music into music, and so on.
 As soon as any  one became full enough to attract his attention, he took it out and  started to make something of it.
 Sometimes we dined together at a Soho restaurant; occasionally  I had tea at his flat.
 In his combined kitchen and dining room,  warmed by a coal stove, he did his work, and there also he cooked  meals for which he marketed himself.
 He was proud of being able  to lay a fire with fewer sticks and less paper than an expert char-  woman, and once said he would rather win praise for the creation of  a salad than of an essay.
 One of the four rooms was set aside for the use of his wife,  Edith.
 She preferred the country and lived on her farm in Cornwall,  whereas Havelock loved to be in the city; though he was not a part  of it, he liked to hear it going on about him.
 Whenever she came to  town she found all her books and possessions inviolate; whenever  he went to Cornwall he found everything ready for him.
 Either of  them could, on impulse, board a train without baggage and in a few  hours be at home.
 Edith was short and stocky, high-colored, curly-haired, with mys-  tical blue eyes but accompanying them a strain of practicality.
 She  could run the farm, look after the livestock, and dispose of her  products.
 Her vitality was so great that it sought other outlets in  writing fiction.
 I38 MARGARET SANGER   Bernard Shaw was once trying to find his way to the Ellis farm  and stopped at a cottage to inquire whether he was on the right road.
 The goodwife could not tell him.
 "But I know Mr. and Mrs. Ellis live near here."
 She kept protesting nobody of that name was in the neighborhood  until Shaw pointed to a house which appeared as though it might be  the one.
 "Who lives there?"
 "Two strangers."
 "What do they do?"
 "Oh, the man he writes out of other folks' books, but she writes  out of her head."
 The person who saw most of Havelock was Olive Schreiner, a  long-standing friend of his and of Edith.
 I was delighted at the  chance of meeting the author of Woman and Labor and of another  favorite, The Story of an African Farm.
 She had just come to Eng-  land for the first time in twenty-five years and been caught in the  War.
 Knowing Havelock to be a philosopher, I had expected him to be  an elderly man, but, despite his white hair, had found him young,  physically and mentally.
 Olive Schreiner's writings were so alive  that I had visualized a young woman.
 Instead, although her hair was  black, her square and stout Dutch body was old and spread.
 She had,  perhaps, been partly aged by the frightful asthma from which she  had suffered for so many years.
 The effect was enhanced by the dark  surroundings of the shabby hotel in which I first saw her.
 Certainly another contributing factor was her despondence over  the War.
 Although her mother was English, her father Dutch, and  she a British subject, her Germanic name was causing her the most  harrowing complications.
 Fellow hotel guests of her own sex, when  they spied her name on the register or heard her paged, insisted to  the manager that either she should be removed or they were going  to seek quarters elsewhere.
 She was literally being hounded from  place to place.
 Possibly Olive felt the tragedy of the War more than any other  person I met in London at this time.
 She had never believed that "the  boys would be out of the trenches by Christmas," or that business as     HAVELOCK ELLIS 1 39   usual could continue much longer.
 Already she had seen the horrors  of armed conflict in South Africa; it seemed to begin lightly, but  it did not end that way.
 She feared the whole world might be trapped  in this one, that internationalism and the peace movement were prac-  tically finished, and that a whole new generation had to be born before  we could recover what we had lost.
 She appeared to me then unduly  disheartened ; it was only later when her words came true that I com-  prehended how accurate were her prophecies.
 Better than any living being Olive understood Havelock.
 I real-  ized this during a conversation between herself and Edith.
 The lat-  ter had been in the United States lecturing on three writers : her hus-  band, James Hinton, whom he admired tremendously, and Edward  Carpenter.
 Her reception had convinced her the name of Ellis had  gone beyond the borders of England, and she wanted him to return  with her the following year to reap some of the reward of the respect  thousands of Americans had for him.
 Havelock was terror-stricken, first at the idea of coming to a new  country, and second at the mere mention of speaking in public.
 He  could imagine no tortures worse than these.
 But in order to please  Edith, whom he loved dearly, and also because her persistency and  determination were so great that he found it hard to oppose her, he  agreed to leave it to the three of us.
 Edith and I had called on Olive to talk it over.
 She, as usual, had  just recently moved.
 This time she was more cheerful, and after tea  we took up the momentous question of the destiny of another indi-  vidual.
 Edith, with her customary fire and fervor, started in to per-  suade Olive, Havelock's lifelong friend, and me, his new friend,  that going to America would be a crowning glory for him.
 She en-  treated our aid in making him decide to do so.
 Olive characteristically listened with rapt attention until Edith had  finished.
 Then she turned to me.
 "What do you think Havelock  should do?"
 I, knowing how much Americans expected of a speaker in the  way of voice, personality, and gift of oratory, and also how easily  they could be disappointed unless gestures and external appearance  fulfilled their anticipations, concluded he would not find this crown     140 MARGARET SANGER   of glory or this universal acclaim, and that he would probably return  disillusioned after the first fanfare of publicity.
 I said, without giv-  ing my reasons, "I don't think he should go."
 "Have either of you asked Havelock what he wants to do?"
 Olive  questioned.
 "I have," said Edith, "and he doesn't want to."
 "Then that settles the matter entirely," replied Olive.
 "Nobody  has the authority to make another do what he doesn't want to, no  matter how good you or I or any of us think it might be for him.
 I myself will never take a step that my instinct or intuition tells me  not to.
 I am guided wholly by that instinct, and if I should awaken  tomorrow morning and my inner voice told me to go to the top of  the Himalayas, I would pack up and go."
 This brief speech determined the question for Havelock, his right  to stay snugly in London, and to give up all the adventure Edith had  planned for him.
 Olive, in her commonly dark mood, was encouraged more by the  work being done for women in birth control than by anything else.
 She herself, who had had but one child, which had died, realized its  significance.
 The last time I saw her she put both arms around me  and said, "We may never meet again,- but your endeavor is the bright  star shining through the black clouds of war."
 She was not able to go back to South Africa until the War was  over.
 One morning, not long afterwards, she was found dead in her  bed.
 According to her instructions, her little child and beloved dog  were removed from their old resting places and Kaffirs carried the  three of them to the peak of a mountain outside Queenstown, where  they have since reposed on their high eminence.
 Ellis has been called the greatest living English gentleman.
 But  England alone cannot claim him ; he belongs to all mankind.
 I define  him as one who radiates truth, energy, and beauty.
 I see him in a  realm above and beyond the shouting and the tumult.
 Captains and  kings come and go.
 Lilliputian warriors strut their hour, and bound-  ary lines between nations are made and unmade.
 Although he takes no  active share in this external trafficking, he does not dwell apart in an  ivory tower of his own construction.
 This Olympian seems to be aloof from the pain of the world, yet     HAVELOCK ELLIS 141   he has penetrated profoundly into the persistent problems of the  race.
 Nothing human is alien to his sympathy.
 His knowledge is  broad and deep; his wisdom even deeper.
 He makes no strident,  blatant effort to cry aloud his message, but gradually and in ever-  increasing numbers, men and women pause to listen to his serene  voice.
 Here is a phenomenon more amazing than the achievements of  radio-activity.
 Despite all the obstacles and obstructions that have  hindered his expression, his truth has filtered through to minds ready  to receive it.
 His philosophy, if it can be reduced to an essence, is  that of life more abundant — attained through a more complete un-  derstanding of ourselves and an unruffled charity to all.
 To Havelock Ellis we owe our concept of that Kingdom of God  within us, that inner world which hides all our inherent potentiali-  ties for joy as well as suffering.
 Thanks to him we realize that hap-  piness must be the fruit of an attitude towards life, that it is in no  way dependent upon the rewards or the gifts of fortune.
 Like St.  Francis of Assisi, he teaches the beauty of nature, of his brother the  sun and his sister the moon, of birds and fish and animals, and all  the pageantry of the passing seasons.
 I have never felt about any .other person as I do about Havelock  Ellis.
 To know him has been a bounteous privilege; to claim him  friend my greatest honor.
 Chapter Twelve     STORK OVER HOLLAND     VVX »« AV\ , .&gt;v&gt; .xvv .vsv .vvv .
 *iJ9 W?
 'iii 'Hi "iii 'id?
 'id?
 '???
 'id?
 ???
 *???
 id?
 ,   DAY after day the attendants at the British Museum piled books  and pamphlets on the table before my seat.
 As I pored over  the vital statistics of Europe it seemed to me that chiefly in the  Netherlands was there a force operating towards constructive race  building.
 The Dutch had long since adopted a common-sense attitude  on the subject, looking upon having a baby as an economic luxury  — something like a piano or an automobile that had to be taken care  of afterwards.
 The Drysdales often mentioned the great work done by, Dr. Aletta  Jacobs of Amsterdam and Dr. Johannes Rutgers of the Hague.
 The  story of Dr. Jacobs' conquest of nearly insuperable obstacles to a  medical career was particularly appealing.
 Born in 1854 in the Prov-  ince of Groningen, she was the eighth child of a physician who, on  eight hundred dollars a year, had to support his wife and eleven chil-  dren.
 Even before adolescence she had asked defiantly, "What's the  use of brains if you're born a girl?"
 She was determined to become  a doctor like her father, though no woman had ever been admitted  to Groningen University.
 Her spirit was so indomitable that when  at seventeen she had passed the examinations and demanded entrance,  she had been permitted to listen for a year, and then allowed to regis-  ter as a permanent student.
 In 1878 Dr. Jacobs had finished her studies in medicine at Am-  sterdam University and gone to London, where she had attended the  Besant and Bradlaugh trial, met the Fabians, met the Malthusians,   142     STORK OVER HOLLAND 1 43   become an ardent suffragist.
 This first woman physician in the Neth-  erlands had returned to Amsterdam and there had braved the disap-  proval of her father's friends by practicing her profession and by  opening a free clinic for poor women and children, where she gave  contraceptive advice and information, the first time this had ever  been done in the world.
 .
 /Within a few years and within a radius of five miles the proportion \  of stillbirths and abortions as well as venereal disease had started to J  decline, children were filling the schools, people were leaving their  canal boats to go into agriculture..
 The Netherlands being such a small country, where one person's  business was everybody's business, such changes could not escape  notice.
 Just about this time Dr. Charles R. Drysdale, then President  of the English League, had been invited ,to address an International  Medical Congress held in Amsterdam.
 The results of Dr. Jacobs'  clinic were so apparent that immediately thereafter the Dutch Neo-  Malthusian League had been formed and thirty- four physicians had  joined it.
 "^Vhen other centers were established, purely for consulta-  tion, the word clinic was applied to them also/In 1883 Dr. Mensinga,  a gynecologist of Flensburg, Germany, had published a description  of a contraceptive device called a diaphragm pessary, which he and  Dr. Jacobs had perfected.
 yDr.
 and Madame Hoitsema Rutgers had  taken charge of the League in 1899 with such success that the work  had spread through that well-ordered kingdom.
 In recognition of its  extensive and valuable accomplishment, Queen Wilhelmina had pre-  sented it with a medal of honor and a charter, and counted it one of  the great public utilities.
 • In my statistical investigations I paid special attention to the birth  and mortality rates of the Netherlands to see how they had been  affected over this period of thirty-five years.
 They showed the lowest  maternal mortality, whereas the United States was at the top of the  list; three times more mothers' lives were being saved in the little  dike country than in my native land.
 furthermore, the infant death  rate of Rotterdam, Amsterdam, and the Hague, the three cities in  which the League was most active, were the lowest of all those in  the world.
 During the same period the death rate had been cut in half, but,     144 MARGARET SANGER   surprisingly, I found that the birth rate had been reduced only a  third.
 In other words, the death rate had fallen faster than the birth  rate, which meant that the population of the Netherlands was in-  creasing more rapidly than that of any other country in Europe.
 I had much difficulty in reconciling these figures with my precon-  ceived idea that birth control would automatically bring about a de-  crease in population.
 Since it was increasing, then perhaps birth con-  trol was not, after all, the answer to the economic international prob-  lem.
 If this were true all my calculations were going to be upset.
 Impatient to go to the Netherlands and dig out the real facts, not  only from Dutch records but from personal observation, I decided  quietly — most of my decisions in those days were quiet ones — to  cross the Channel.
 This implied possible unwelcome encounters with  inquisitive officials, floating bombs, submarines, and every type of  inconvenience and delay, but my eagerness made me discount the  hindrances.
 I applied.
 to the Dutch Consul for a visa to Bertha Watson's pass-  port.
 "Eighty cents, please," and no questions asked.
 So that I should not have to return to London before going on to  Paris I presented myself at the French Consulate also.
 I waited two  hours.
 "Two dollars, please," and still no queries.
 I attached myself to the end of the long line waiting at Victoria  Station to have passports inspected, and was soon safely on.
 the train  for Folkestone.
 We were late when we reached the Channel.
 Again  we lined up for inspection.
 Many Belgian women with four or five  children were going back to their people; the sleepy little ones and  the tired women settled on the platform to rest until some had  gone through.
 Two detectives glanced casually at my passport, and  then allowed me to enter the official chamber.
 Inspections had been  growing steadily more strict ; this was the ultimate test.
 There sat in  a row three officers in mufti, well-fed and brusque with authority.
 I handed my passport to the first, who looked me up and down as  though I were a treacherous enemy, then pushed it over to the next.
 This man too viewed me with suspicion and mistrust, and pulled out  a notebook, scanning the names to see whether mine were on the  proscribed list.
 The last of the three, who was to make the final de-     STORK OVER HOLLAND 145   cision — crisp, trim, and hard as nails in voice and manner — de-  manded, "What are you going to the Continent for, Madam?
 An-  other joy ride?
 You Americans must think that's all this War  amounts to.
 Can you produce any good reason for letting you  through?"
 Fortunately I was prepared for such a contingency.
 I took out of  my purse a letter from Bernarr MacFadden asking me to answer cer-  tain questions in the form of articles for Physical Culture such as the  relation between the unfit and population growth.
 I offered this docu-  ment while those in line behind me waited restively.
 He read it me-  ticulously, taking longer than necessary as it seemed to me in my  nervousness.
 At last he folded it neatly and said, "A good work, this.
 Too bad someone hasn't done it before."
 No complications presented themselves at the Hague, and early  on a January morning in 191 5 I registered at an inexpensive hotel.
 It was comforting, to hear a radiator sizzling once more.
 I joined  the other guests who were cheerfully breakfasting together en famille  at a single table, and, since I spoke neither Dutch nor German, silently  munched my black bread and cheese, downed the excellent coffee, and  watched interestedly.
 Though stolid in appearance like all the Dutch,  they were friendly.
 I did not try to telephone Dr. Rutgers.
 Instead, though it was not  yet nine o'clock, I hailed a taxi and held out to the driver a slip of  paper on which I had written the street and number.
 In response to  my ring at the door to which I was delivered, a tiny square window  in the upper part opened mysteriously and a face — wizened, aged,  and inquisitive — was framed in the aperture.
 It remained while I ex-  plained my mission.
 Apparently trust was inspired because, my story  finished, the door swung wide and the face, materialized into Dr.  Rutgers, ushered me into the library, where I waited until he came  back in his street clothing.
 Then we went out to a second breakfast  in a nearby cafe.
 The doctor turned out to be a kindly little man, whose wife was  now an invalid.
 It was hard for him to talk English.
 Most of the  Dutch had four languages, but only those who had lived in England     I46 MARGARET SANGER   spoke English well.
 The difficulties, however, lessened as we nibbled  brioches and sipped coffee after coffee until noon.
 Warming to my  narrative of the battle in the United States, he shook his head when  he thought of what I might have to face in the future, and expressed  more concern over my predicament and more heartfelt sympathy  with my having had to leave the children behind than anybody I had  yet met.
 He was the first person to whom I had been able to over-  flow about my personal sadness.
 On his part Dr. Rutgers described his hardships in keeping the  clinics open and, through the League, preventing adverse legisla-  tion.
 Neo-Malthusianism had never been popular anywhere, no mat-  ter what the proof in the lessening of human misery and suffering.
 Dr. Rutgers had borne alone the brunt of all the criticism directed  at his society.
 [ The Rutgers method for establishing new clinics had resulted in  a sound system for dealing with the birth rate.
 The men and women  who acted as his councilors understood that a rising birth rate, no  matter where in the country, would soon be followed by a high in-  fant mortality rate.
 Accordingly, they reported this quickly to the  society, which sent a midwife or practical nurse, trained in the tech-  nique standardized by Dr. Rutgers, into the congested sector to set  up a demonstration clinic.
 She usually took an apartment with two  extra rooms, one for waiting, the other a modestly equipped office  like that of any country midwife.
 Her duty was to go into the home where a child had died, inquire  into the cause, and give friendly advice regarding the mother's own  health.
 She also encouraged her not to have another baby until the  condition of ignorance, poverty, or disease, whichever it might be,  had either been bettered or eliminated.
 Whenever four had been born  into such a family this advice was made more emphatic.
 As soon as Dr. Rutgers had explained his policy to me I had that  most important answer to the puzzling and bothersome problem of  the increasing population in the Netherlands brought about by birth  control.
 It was proper spacing.
 The numbers in a family or the num-  bers in a nation might be increased just as long as the arrival of chil-  dren was not too rapid to permit those already born to be assured of  livelihood and to become assimilated in the community.
 STORK OVER HOLLAND 1 47   Dr. Rutgers suggested I come to his clinic the next day and learn  his technique.
 He was at the moment training two midwives prepar-  atory to starting a new center in the outskirts of the Hague.
 Under  his tutelage I began to realize the necessity for individual instruc-  tion to patients if the method of contraception prescribed was to ful-  fill its function.
 I wondered at the ease with which this could be  done.
 Very soon even I myself, unable to talk to these women in  their own tongue, instructed seventy-five.
 I used to bombard the little man with questions concerning each  case.
 I took issue with him over his autocratic system of dictating  without explanation.
 Merely saying, "This is what you do.
 Do this  always," had to my mind no educational value.
 "Don't you think it would be a good idea to tell your patients what  you're aiming at and why?"
 I asked.
 "No, can't take time.
 They must do what they're told."
 His was the doctor's point of view with which I was familiar, but  with which I could not agree.
 It also seemed to me a mistake to regard the women merely as  units in a sociological scheme for bettering the human race.
 On the  file cards were inscribed only names and addresses ; no case histories.
 I wanted to know so much more about them.
 How many children had  they already had?
 How many had they lost?
 What were their hus-  bands' wages ?
 What was the spacing in each family, and what were  the effects?
 How successful had been the method of contraception?
 If this information had then been recorded, the birth control move-  ment could later have cited chapter and verse in its own support.
 After my morning's work with Dr. Rutgers I usually repaired to  the Central Bureau of Statistics') with my three-in-one translator, in-  terpreter, and guide.
 My findings were that in all cities and districts  where clinics had been established the figures showed improvement —  labor conditions were better and children were going to schools,  which had raised their educational standards!
 Professional prostitutes  were few, and even these were German, French, Belgian, or English,  because Dutch women were encouraged to marry early.
 It made a dif-  ference.
 From the eugenic standpoint there had been a rapid increase  in the stature of the Dutch conscript as shown by army records.
 The  data proved conclusively that a controlled birth rate was as beneficial     I48 MARGARET SANGER   as I had imagined it might be, growing out of the first clinic initiated  by the enterprise of Dr. Aletta Jacobs.
 I was, of course, looking forward to meeting Dr. Jacobs, and sent  her a note asking for the privilege of an interview.
 A reply came,  curt and blunt; she would not see me.
 She was not concerned with  my studies or with me, because it was a doctor's subject and one in  which laymen should not interfere.
 Already I had come to the same  conclusion in principle, but was dismayed at this first rebuff I had  encountered.
 I was also hurt as much as I could be hurt during that  period when I seemed to be one mass of aches, physically and men-  tally.
 Not until much later did I learn that to be a nurse was no  recommendation in Europe, where she was more like an upper serv-  ant, a household drudge who took care of the sick instead of the  kitchen.
 For two months I wandered about the Netherlands, visiting clinics  and independent nurses in the Hague, Rotterdam, and Amsterdam.
 In spite of the League propaganda against commercialization I found  many shops in which a woman, if she so desired, could purchase con-  traceptive supplies as casually as you might buy a toothbrush.
 Un-  fortunately in some of them she could be examined and fitted by  saleswomen who had but little training in technique and scant knowl-  edge of anatomy.
 'Although the Dutch League had several thousand  members — each one active, writing to papers, talking to friends, at-  tending meetings — and although fifty-four clinics were in opera-  tion, many well-informed people did not know anything about them.
 More surprising still, the medical profession as a whole appeared to  be utterly ignorant of the directed birth control work that was going  on.
 \It did not, therefore, seem extraordinary that no inkling of all  this — either clinics or contraceptive methods — had ever reached  the United States, and practically no attempt to copy it been made  in England.
 Even in this neutral country signs of war were everywhere.
 Along  the way were soldiers in uniform, armed and keeping guard, and at  the stations Red Cross wagons were in readiness.
 Feeling among the  Dutch was greatly mixed : Queen Wilhelmina's husband was a Ger-  man ; the army and the aristocracy were for the Triple Alliance ; the  poorer classes were more influenced by the sufferings of the thou-     STORK OVER HOLLAND 1 49   sands and thousands of Belgians who had flocked to Dutch firesides  for food and shelter.
 Nowhere else was I so impressed with the tragedies of war.
 Often  about four o'clock I had kaffee Hatch at the home of some Dutch  lady who sat, very proper, while the maid served coffee, the best in  Europe, from the big, white, porcelain pot.
 I suspected most of the  morning had been spent in supervising preparations for the de-  licious food.
 At one of these afternoons I was introduced to five German dele-  gates who had come to attend the Women's Peace Conference.
 They  found it difficult to forgive the stories of German atrocities which  England had allowed to circulate.
 I ventured to inquire how they  could disprove them, especially in view of the report of the Bryce  Commission.
 "Was not war cruel and savage, and might not these  things have happened ?"
 "Yes, yes," one said, "but hundreds of our German boys are brought  back to us, dead and alive, whose noses and ears have been cut off,  put in packages, and taken to headquarters for reward.
 However,  we would not dream of accusing the French or the English soldiers  of such barbarisms.
 We know that because their code forbids them  to do these things themselves they have called in the Moors and the  Gurkhas and the savages from Africa."
 Unable to comprehend how those towards whom they felt such  friendliness could return this sentiment with hatred, the women said  to me in bewilderment, "Tell us really why people who do not know  us hate us as they do."
 The dignity of their sorrow, the heavy bur-  den of grief under which they labored, the very calmness and fair-  ness with which they bore it, had a quieting effect.
 The Netherlands was the place to regain a certain sense of bal-  ance, especially if you had passed through England, where feeling  was so embittered.
 I overheard in Amsterdam a most illuminating  conversation between two Englishmen and a German.
 After going  over the pros and cons, they shook hands all around, agreeing that  six months after the War was settled German and English trade  would be hand in glove, trials and grievances forgotten.
 To go directly to France from the Netherlands was next to im-  possible ; nor did I find it easy to travel roundabout by way of Eng-     I50 MARGARET SANGER   land, owing to the recently instituted German submarine blockade.
 Then at last I heard that a freighter was to be sent to London to test  it.
 Day after day I went to the docks for news, and employed the in-  terval with pleasant social contacts.
 Rather than have a cocktail before lunch or dinner the Dutch as-  sembled at their favorite restaurants for aperitifs.
 The glass, with  winged rim spreading out about half an inch from the top, was filled  to overflowing with Bols.
 You were not supposed to touch it at first ;  instead you leaned over and sort of scooped a little with your mouth  before picking it up and enjoying it.
 The French aperitifs were pleas-  ant and mild, but Holland gin was so strong and raw that I marveled  at the way they could take it with a smile.
 I was definitely unequal  to the art.
 One evening I was invited to play billiards with a Dutchman, an  Englishman, and a German.
 I accepted as naturally as for a game of  whist.
 Afterwards the Dutchman said that, though no respectable  Dutch wife could have played billiards in that room without later  being approached or insulted, an American woman could do any-  thing and still not lose caste.
 She minded her own affairs, paid her  own bills, and even if she were seen on the streets late at night with-  out an escort everyone knew she must be on legitimate business.
 Then the Englishman spoke to the same effect.
 He said you found  the American woman in all sorts of out-of-the-way and often ques-  tionable places, but you needed only to look into her candid face to  find an answer to what she was doing there.
 European women owed  her a great deal for her pioneering on the Continent.
 In England it  was a common sight to see the most estimable women smoking ciga-  rettes in all fashionable restaurants and hotels just as in America. "
 "Just as in America !"
 I gasped, remembering my astonishment at  having seen women smoke publicly in London.
 "I'm sure there must be  some mistake.
 Ladies are not supposed to smoke in America.
 As an  example to Europe they're a failure, because they haven't even won  that liberty for themselves."
 This was a surprise to them all.
 But the Dutchman rallied to the  defense, shifting the subject.
 "Nevertheless, she is the best-dressed  woman in the world."
 STORK OVER HOLLAND 151   "What about the Parisian?"
 I exclaimed.
 "I except none.
 I have been over half the globe.
 I have paid par-  ticular attention to foreigners, their customs, their education, their  tastes, and I have been convinced that today the Parisian woman has  had to yield to the American in respect to clothes and fashion.
 Paris  designs are intended for the United States, not for France or Eng-  land.
 The Frenchwoman may be trim and neat and jaunty, but it  takes a woman of wealth in France to be in the fashion, while in New  York, every shopgirl wears cheap editions of the latest styles."
 The German was deep in thought during these speeches, resting his  chin in his hand.
 Aroused by the striking of the clock he suddenly  interpolated, "Why, you can always tell an American couple in Eu-  rope.
 The woman is too bossy, she leads the way, she does all the  talking and ordering, while the man trails on behind her and silently  pays the bills."
 "Well, you must have seen him when he was on his good be-  havior," I suggested, "for at home he is not so silent about paying  the bills."
 Unabashed, the German continued, "My brother who has long  lived in America says the woman there is the head of the house, that  she manages all; her word is law.
 Is this true ?"
 He seemed greatly disturbed, and I was about to reply, but the  Briton rose to speak.
 "Of course she is, because she's far superior.
 Why, American men have nothing in common with the women.
 They  are coarse, blunt, crude, while the women are finely sensitive, ex-  quisite, and courteous.
 The man has nothing to give his wife but  money; he comes home at night and talks business, introduces into  his home only friends who will help him out financially, and when  his wife discusses music, art, or literature, he falls asleep and snores.
 That's why she brings her fortune into Europe for a husband.
 She  finds her equal in the Frenchman, the Italian, the Spaniard, but par-  ticularly in the Englishman.
 For every Englishman is a gentleman,  and every American woman is a lady !"
 The German added a final convulsive note to the settlement of the  woman problem by adding, "Is it true the American husband not  only washes the dishes but pushes the perambulator ?"
 I52 MARGARET SANGER   "Why, yes, he often does that."
 "That is terr-r-r-rrible," he answered, the r's rolling out, and his  hands clasped tight to his temples.
 And at that we all departed for our rest.
 But a few days later one  or another of the quartet was demonstrated right.
 News came that  my boat was about to leave at once, and I sought out the Captain.
 At the first intimation of my errand, he waved his hands and said,  "No!
 No!
 No women!"
 I kept on talking until I made him admit he was interested in  America, in diet, and in population.
 When I found he was a reader  of Physical Culture I produced my open sesame letter and again it  was more potent than a passport.
 I stood reasoning with him on  the pier, until finally he said, "There's a rule to take no women.
 But  you Americans are not like others.
 I think I can put you in."
 I was  allowed to embark.
 During the voyage we were most careful, anchoring at dusk, and  when it was light keeping sharp watch for floating mines which  might have broken loose from their moorings.
 It took us two nights  and a day to make a crossing that ordinarily occupied only nine or  ten hours.
 I had plenty of time to sort out my impressions and conclusions  regarding the birth control movement.
 They had been revolutionized.
 I could no longer look upon it as a struggle for free speech, because  I now realized that it involved much more than talks, books, or  pamphlets.
 These were not enough.
 Personal instruction had been proved to be the best method, and I  concluded clinics were the proper places from which to disseminate  information but also, admirable as they were in the Netherlands,  they ought not to be placed in the hands of unskilled midwives, so-  cial workers, or even nurses.
 These could, of course, instruct after  a fashion, but only doctors had the requisite knowledge of anatomy  and physiology and training in gynecology to examine properly and  describe accurately:.
 I had a new goal, but how difficult and how distant its attainment  was to be I never dreamed.
 *l     Chapter Thirteen     THE PEASANTS ARE KINGS     I STAYED but a few days in London and then went on to Paris,  a gloomy, gloomy city because so many people were garbed in  black.
 Jaures had been shot.
 The capital had already been moved to  Bordeaux and suspicion and hysteria were in the air.
 When I went  within easy driving distance of Paris for lunch or dinner, I could  see the barbed-wire entanglements and gaps where the trees had been  taken down for better visibility.
 I renewed what contacts I could.
 But everybody was too busy now  with the War to think of such a subject as family limitation, which  to the French had never been anything to get excited about because  they were too used to it.
 Furthermore, the other side of the question  was now presenting itself.
 They were beginning to ask, "If we had a  larger population, could we not have held the Germans back ?"
 Again I saw Victor Dave.
 He was literally starving to death, sup-  ported only by friendly gifts of a few francs here or there which  he always accepted with laughter ; what difference did it make to him  whether he lived a few days longer?
 I never saw greater gallantry  than was manifested by his smile and the shrug of his shoulders as  he sauntered to work with two pieces of dry bread in his pocket.
 The libraries were shut.
 Paris was no place for me, but I could see  something of Spain, and Portet was waiting for me there.
 After the  customary passport argument and some surprise at the cost of the  sleeping-car arrangements I left for the South.
 It was four o'clock in   i53     154 MARGARET SANGER   the morning as the express pulled into Cerbere, the station on the  border, where the French viewed all passengers with caution and  mistrust.
 "Cerbere!"
 shouted the guard, and, "Passports!"
 shouted an in-  spector following on his heels.
 Mine was not quite right.
 The  train moved out leaving me and my baggage desolate on the plat-  form.
 I paced up and down the tiny station watching for the train back.
 As usual, peasants were asleep in the waiting room, some on the  floor, others sitting on bags and parcels.
 We were so close under the  shadow of the Pyrenees that they almost seemed to be toppling  over us.
 From the train window I looked out on the beauty of dawn and  the rising sun, a scene of such magnificence that it repaid me in  pleasure for all the trouble.
 To one side was the far stretch of the  Mediterranean, as magic a blue as I had ever imagined it.
 To the  other were the majestic, rugged mountains with snow-capped peaks  and bases covered with pink, flowering apricots.
 Little villages of  white houses and red-tile roofs nestled in the valleys and serpentine  roads coiled up the hillsides, where thousands of acres of grape vines,  trim and well cared- for, bespoke the wine country.
 From Perpignan I telegraphed Portet, "Live or die, sink or swim,  survive or perish, I'll be in Barcelona tomorrow," and boarded the  train once more with a light heart and my papers, three of them.
 Already in the minute second-class compartment were a large,  middle-aged woman whose sweet face was framed in a black man-  tilla, a small gray-haired man, evidently her husband, and a younger  one of about twenty-five.
 It would have been crowded enough as it  was, but they had brought with them packages and bundles that filled  the space to the roof.
 However, they squeezed out enough room for  me to curl myself up and go to sleep.
 I awakened with a start, hearing again the fateful word, "Pass-  ports!"
 and found the agent examining those of my fellow passen-  gers.
 I opened the bag where I had always carried my credentials,  but they were not there.
 The officer stood waiting.
 "I have my pa-     THE PEASANTS ARE KINGS 1 55   pers all signed," I said, "but I cannot find them.
 Go on to the others  and when you come back I'll have them."
 Since he could not understand English my speech had little effect ;  he continued to wait.
 I began turning things out — letters, books,  pamphlets of all kinds and descriptions, groping through every bag,  in and out of every package.
 My traveling companions gazed on the  commotion sympathetically and drew their legs aside so I could look  under the seat.
 At this point another uniform approached and the two consulted  together.
 Then one of them blew a whistle and at its loud and shrill  summons five men came running.
 The biggest of them threw wide the  compartment door, to indicate I must get off.
 They were jabbering  at me in French and Spanish ; I was talking English.
 All of us were  going as fast as we could.
 First I jumped up and expostulated, then  sat down and waved my hands saying, "Go away."
 Finally there appeared a young Spanish student who could speak  English.
 He conveyed to me that the train was already late on my  account; I must get off so the other passengers could catch the  Barcelona Express.
 I would not be bothered any more.
 "So do I want to catch it," I  exclaimed.
 "Why don't they move on?
 I have a passport and I'll find  it in a few minutes.
 I've paid for my ticket to Port Bou and I'm not  going back.
 You can stop the train here for a week if you want to —  I shan't budge !"
 The gendarmes were standing expectantly on the platform below.
 The interpreter shrugged his shoulders, "She'll do as she says.
 She's  an American woman and she'll never come down.
 You might as well  move on."
 Nevertheless, the big fellow with the long black cape resolutely  seized one bag after another and handed them out.
 Underneath the  last one were disclosed the missing papers.
 Straightway everybody  was wreathed in smiles.
 The bags were restored and the agents  apologized, thanked me profusely, and departed.
 The passengers shooks hands with me all around.
 Just before we reached Port Bou one of them peered out the win-  dow, rippled off some words to the others in Catalan.
 The whole  compartment was as though electrified.
 In a few seconds parcels were     I56 MARGARET SANGER   being torn apart and boxes ripped open.
 The Senora removed her  mantilla and placed a smart new hat on her head, then crowned that  with another, and another, and another, until finally she was wearing  four.
 Yards of beautiful and exquisite lace went inside her bodice.
 She took off her outer skirt and swathed her hips in lengths of cloth.
 The men stuffed their pockets and the lining of their coats.
 At last  there were only a few rolls of braid left.
 The younger one lifted his  trousers, wound them round and round his legs and tucked the  ends in his garters.
 Then through the window went crumpled pa-  per, boxes, string.
 Finally, as the train was slowing up they put on  light-buff, linen dusters.
 My eyes popped out of my head to see these  simple people suddenly transformed into stylish stouts returning  from Paris.
 The two men nonchalantly smoked cigars as though nothing out  of the way were going on while the customs officials went through  their bags.
 Everybody concerned knew they were merchants smug-  gling goods, but even the authorities regarded it as legitimate for  them to bring in as much as they could carry on their persons.
 As  they left the shed where my belongings were still being scrambled  over, they glanced commiseratingly at me and glowered indignation  at the officials that a lady should be so served.
 I had expected to find in Barcelona street-corner Carmens with  hibiscus blossoms in their hair, wandering guitarists and singers.
 But  the only music that passed my window oozed out mechanically from  two-wheeled, highly-ornamented hurdy-gurdies.
 Nevertheless, the  city was full of color.
 Strange little wagons with canvas covers,  looking as though they were part of a caravan, rattled over the cob-  bles.
 There was something gorgeously elegant about the members  of the Guardia Civil, grandly mounted on Arabian horses, their  mustachios fiercely bristling, their uniforms ablaze with scarlet and  yellow topped off with black patent leather hats.
 The red Phrygian  caps of the porters seemed almost too realistic a reminder of revolu-  tion.
 The workers still wore their crimson-fringed sashes, their blue  French blouses, and white rope-soled shoes.
 THE PEASANTS ARE KINGS 1 57   Numberless bells were constantly ringing in numberless churches.
 Everywhere, like crows, were priests in long swinging robes, shovel  hats, and dirty bare toes sticking through their sandals.
 On the cor-  ners of the central streets I saw them occupying the booths of the  professional correspondents who for ten cents read and answered  letters for the illiterate.
 Although Barcelona, capital of the separatist province of Cata-  lonia, was the progressive, industrial center of Spain, it was not  darkened by a melee of belching chimneys.
 The hundreds of fac-  tories were kept out of sight, each one isolated in the fields, leaving  the city free from traffic, smoke, and the whir of machinery.
 The  palms in the squares and parks were lovely, but set side by side with  the new was the startling antiquity of the old town, congested and  melancholy.
 Overlooking the sea at the end of the Rambla, decorated along  its length with flower stalls and trees, loud with birds, stood a tall  column bearing the statue of Columbus.
 But the effect was greatly spoiled because nearly every one remaining  had a leg, arm, foot, or even head gone.
 After looking at this for  some time and pondering over the wherefore, I concluded that figures  so strongly made and set had not easily been removed, and decided  it must have something to do with the Spanish-American War.
 When I asked my Spanish friends whether I had guessed correctly,  their only explanation was that ruffians had doubtless done it for  sport.
 However, after I had left the country I received verification of my  supposition.
 The monument had been stoned in '98, but no Spaniard  would ever have admitted this fact to any American; it might hurt  the feelings of the visitor even to mention the unpleasantness.
 I began to study Spanish with a teacher, but I was not nearly far  enough advanced to be able to get anywhere in my investigations.
 Unfortunately also, although men thronged the cafes in droves, they  kept their wives in semi-Oriental seclusion and even mentally im-  posed their deep-rooted ideas of the isolation of women on foreign-  ers.
 I could not violate this custom by going about alone, because I     I58 MARGARET SANGER   was a guest.
 As a result Portet, who was a busy man himself, pro-  vided me with a succession of male escorts.
 Towards the end of a certain afternoon, tired and footsore, I was  sitting with one of these accommodating gentlemen at a sidewalk  table sipping an aperitif — a delicious French vermouth supplemented  by olives stuffed with anchovies.
 Bootblacks were making their cus-  tomary rounds of the patrons, and the men were having their shoes  cleaned.
 Since I had been walking about a great deal, mine were ap-  pearing rather scuffed, and I stretched my feet out.
 My companion looked at me appealingly.
 "I beg of you, Senora,  not here."
 "Why not?"
 But the boy had already brought his little shoe rest, begun spit-  ting on my oxford and rubbing with energy and enthusiasm.
 Em-  barrassed, my escort rose and moved away, but, interested in the boy's  novel methods, I kept my eyes on my shoes and was unaware of any-  thing out of the ordinary.
 As soon as he had finished I glanced up.
 There must have been  twenty-five men gathered in front of the cafe, all looking fixedly and  intently at this unusual spectacle.
 When I opened my purse to pay  the boy, he doffed his cap with the most gracious gesture.
 "Senora,  this is my pleasure."
 The crowd outside applauded loudly and I felt my face growing  hot.
 Not until they had drifted off did my protector return, wan and  pale and extremely agitated.
 "You see what you've done, you see ?
 It  will be the joke of Spain!
 You are the friend of Professor Portet!
 It is a reflection on him and on his family!
 You cannot do these  things !"
 I realized then that I had to be more circumspect.
 Portet, who after all was Ferrer's successor, was watched wher-  ever he went by the secret service, and soon pointed out that I too  had a shadow — the man who sat constantly at the little, round,  marble-topped table across from my hotel.
 He said I should always  have this individual or one of his mates with me.
 They were on eight-  hour duty, and if I were to go in for any night life I would have three  separate ones over the twenty-four hours.
 These government agents were to give a regular report of whom     THE PEASANTS ARE KINGS 1 59   I was with and where I went, and, in a sense, they also looked after me,  although Portet was never without a revolver in his pocket.
 In Spain  a breath of dampness, and pop — open went the umbrellas all over the  place.
 Once on the way to a benefit for the Belgians Portet and I  were waiting for the tram when a spatter of rain came up.
 His spy  rushed to hold an umbrella over him while mine ran after my hat  which the wind had saucily blown off my head.
 Or, if I were taking  a train alone, my daytime attendant, having already been in con-  ference with the hotel proprietor, would appear at the ticket office  and explain to the clerk where I wanted to go.
 Had he spoken Eng-  lish I would have doubtless enjoyed his conversation, but Portet  warned me it was beneath my dignity even to nod good morning to  such a creature.
 The frequent friendly attentions of our spies could not draw a  word of approval from Portet, though on one occasion they performed  a real service.
 Stopping en route at the American Express Company to  get some money, we set out to see a part of the old city new to me.
 Only a few blocks from the banks and modern shops were center  pumps from which women were carrying the water to their homes  in tall earthen jugs, in just the same primitive manner as centuries  ago.
 The houses in the red-light district were approached by outside  stairways along which were niches enclosing receptacles for holy  water, and into these the patrons dipped their fingers religiously,  crossed themselves, and entered.
 While we were walking through one of the narrow streets, high-  walled on either side, suddenly and without reason I felt alarmed,  and at the same moment Portet put his hand in his pocket.
 I glanced  behind to find our two familiar guarding shadows gone; I sensed  danger ahead, but I, too, tried to act as though everything were all  right, as though there were nothing to worry about.
 We strolled in  the same leisurely way to the corner.
 There in a flash down another  street we caught a quick glimpse of struggling figures in the distance.
 In a moment they disappeared.
 We proceeded to our destination — a little cafe fronting the Medi-  terranean.
 As we sat admiring it, I was startled by the sight of our  two spies approaching, one of them holding a long, jagged-edged  knife.
 I could not understand his excited words, but his pantomime     l60 MARGARET SANGER   was so graphically descriptive of a life-and-death struggle that my  flesh began to creep and shivers ran up and down my backbone.
 He  paused, bowed, and held out the knife, obviously offering it to me.
 Portet, looking very incensed, pulled out his revolver, showed it  to the man, and ordered him off.
 When both had retired, abashed,  Portet translated briefly, "He says he has saved your life — that rob-  bers saw you get money at the American Express this morning, and  that he knew they were going to attack you.
 He followed and grabbed  the knife away from them.
 I told him this was unnecessary.
 The  thieves would have got as good as they gave !
 I can take care of you."
 I thought I ought at least to have given the man a reward, but not  Portet, the revolutionary, who was furious at the presumption.
 He  was always angry at them.
 When he came to lunch with me Palm  Sunday, the hotel proprietor leaned over the table confidentially and  said, "The government agent wishes to speak to you."
 Portet shouted, "If he comes near, I'll shoot him!
 The hound, the  worm, the dog !
 How dare he ?"
 "Can't we find out what he wants?"
 I suggested.
 The proprietor returned, "Nothing, Sefior, except to ask whether  you and the Senora are attending the bullfight this afternoon.
 His  time is up at four o'clock, but if you are going to the plaza de toros,  he will be glad to stay on duty another eight hours."
 We went; he came right along and saw the spectacle at govern-  ment expense.
 The cement-like benches of the large amphitheater were crowded  to full capacity.
 The people were gesticulating, chattering volubly as  though awaiting something unusual or something good eagerly antici-  pated.
 Overhead the monotonous, gray sky seemed like a huge tent,  it was so regular and colorless, but every little while a patch of blue  appeared.
 The disposition of the onlookers changed with the same un-  expectedness from gladness and joy almost instantaneously into im-  patience or wrath ; at one moment they clapped and praised the mata-  dor, at the next they insulted and vilified him.
 Most of my Spanish friends hoped I would like a bullfight, al-  though Portet, who thought it barbaric, told me it would probably  shock me ; every foreigner who saw one simply shut his eyes in hor-  ror when some poor old skeleton horse was so gored that its intes-     THE PEASANTS ARE KINGS l6l   tines fell out and then were pushed back for its re-entry into the  arena.
 If I were going to be conspicuous by showing my feelings,  the populace might turn upon me, and, jokingly, he suggested fol-  lowing the example of Alfonso XIII, who had given his English  bride a pair of opera glasses with perfectly black lenses because she  was so open and frank at displaying her emotions.
 She had stood  and stared blankly at them all the time, and thus got through her  first bullfight.
 I promised to be careful, and watched with the naked eye.
 The bull came out snorting with passion and vigor, glaring around  the arena with a great noble sweep of his head.
 Suddenly he saw a  color he did not like, something inimical.
 He lunged towards it, and  then a medieval-looking figure danced before him with a cape to  confuse him.
 He forgot his original enemy and rushed at the red  thing.
 Another gyrating figure distracted his attention and angered  him to wheel towards the new adversary, make another plunge, and  again be met by a flash of color.
 Over and over and over again this happened.
 The poor bull's vi-  tality was finally worn down, not from direct combat, but because of  the many bewildering forces that were there to destroy him — the  fluttering capes, the kaleidoscopic shapes, the swift-thrown banderil-  las, and the gleaming lances of the picadors.
 Then, when he was  bleeding and utterly spent, the hero stepped out with a sword to kill  him.
 He was dragged out, sombreros whirled into the arena, shrieks  and shouts arose, the band played, a great victory had been achieved.
 Within no time, even before another bull appeared, vendors came  along with baskets of hot sandwiches made from the barbecued meat  of the one just killed.
 Not a single word would Portet let me say until we were entirely  out of hearing; you could talk freely in Spain against the Church or  the priests, but this sacred institution must not be criticized.
 Passing  through my mind was the thought that a bullfight was symbolic of  the struggle of the working classes.
 Strikes, picketing, jails ex-  hausted their energy until they too charged blindly this way and that,  always missing the main issue.
 Many of my holidays were spent more happily than this.
 I never  tired of the wooded mountains which sheltered Barcelona, most of     1 62 MARGARET SANGER   them having some religious significance.
 Portet and I went up the  funicular to the top of Tibidabo, the exceeding high place where the  devil tempted Jesus, showing him in a moment of time the world  spread out before him.
 Another glorious spring day we twisted up the thirty miles of  road to Montserrat, the mountain riven in two at the Crucifixion.
 It  was the quaintest sight to one coming from a land of subways and  elevators to watch the donkeys laden with packs on their backs of  vegetables, eggs, and butter, and to see their owners straggling be-  side up and down the hills, masters of at least themselves if not of  their donkeys.
 The breeze blew more chill as we ascended the final  slope to the huge monastery at the top.
 Afterwards night fell, and  the moon shone over the huge boulders of towering rocks, and the  whispering wind swung from mass to mass and echoed back again  whence it came.
 It was an evening of enchantment.
 On making other sorties into the country I perceived an innate in-  telligence in the most ignorant peasant.
 The average one could not  tell the names of the simplest plants or flowers, but one look from  the eye, one tone of the voice, was comprehended in a flash.
 Even the  gypsy children in the outskirts of Barcelona, with their little dirty  feet and tattered clothing, who danced weird dances and flattered  strangers for pennies, had a natural brightness beyond belief.
 But this intelligence was not being directed, and one reason was  inherent in the rebellious nature of the Catalan ; he would have pre-  ferred no system of government at all if that had been possible, for  he was restless and tumultuous under restraint.
 When I saw children leading the blind about the streets day after  day, I asked, "Don't they have to be in school ?
 Isn't education made  compulsory by the Government?"
 I was laughed at.
 "If the Government sent our children to school,  we would know it was the wrong sort of school."
 Parents who could afford it, however, were willing enough to  have them go to Ferrer's schools.
 Two thirds of the Spanish people  had not been able to read or write before his time.
 The teacher, who  worked constantly all the year round, averaged about sixteen dollars  a month.
 "He is hungrier than a schoolmaster" was a household  axiom.
 THE PEASANTS ARE KINGS 163   Since Ferrer's first school had opened fourteen years previously,  some forty-six had begun to operate, and, in addition, most towns  of any size had at least one rationalist school which was maintained  by the workers and also used Ferrer's texts.
 The groundwork was  then being laid for the children of yesterday to become the leaders  in today's fight.
 The pupils I saw at near-by Sabadella, at Granada,  and at Seville, were being taught the processes of life from the cell  up, and their instructors were really trying to give them a scientific  instead of a theological attitude.
 Because of the long mental and physical isolation imposed upon  them by the Church, which controlled all education, five thousand  towns and villages could be reached only by trails and tracks.
 The  Church had objected to having roads built because, once transportation  were made more accessible, women could more easily leave their  homes in the country and go to the city where evil awaited them —  their morals were being safeguarded by cowpaths.
 Most of Spain was a gaunt, denuded, tragic country with vast,  desolate steppes and red, impoverished soil which gave the feeling it  had been soaked in human blood for centuries.
 Certainly the spill-  ing of blood had been a matter of indifference in Spanish history.
 In  a sense the whole people were lawless, hostile to rulers.
 Every child  knew the evils of El Caciquismo.
 Some Spaniard has said, "Democ-  racy, Republicanism, or Socialism have in reality little to do in our  country, for we do not willingly accept either king, president, priest,  or prophet."
 The worker in Catalonia had small faith in government, no matter  what the brand, and kept straight to the one issue — revolution  through economic action, chiefly the general strike.
 He did not look  upon the Government as a vague, mysterious something for the deeds  or blunders of which no one could be blamed; he demanded that  those in authority should give accounting for the results of their  authority.
 He never forgot a wrong, and usually those responsible  paid the bill.
 I sometimes thought his "attempts" were carried out  more from a spirit of revenge and individual hatred than as a social  protest.
 At the head of the Rambla was a great square, the Plaza de la  Constitucion, and there each day from five to six the populace took     164 MARGARET SANGER   its airing.
 Thousands of feet had so worn the pavement that it needed  replacement.
 One noon the square was torn up.
 Nobody could walk  there for twenty-four hours, the workmen were busy, ropes were  placed across both ends of the promenade, and a huge sign was  erected, "No trespassing allowed.
 By Order of the Government."
 Loiterers gathered to look at the proclamation.
 They began talk-  ing, their gestures growing more and more vehement, until finally  they pulled down the ropes and deliberately trod on the fresh con-  crete.
 They were not going to be forbidden by the Government !
 The  entire job had to be done over again, and I noticed the next night  six mounted police were guarding all four sides.
 But nobody seemed  to give either incident the slightest attention.
 Catalans were a race of individualists, each a law unto himself.
 Their most marked characteristics were independence and personal  dignity.
 Even Pepet, the waiter at my hotel, knew how to use his  freedom.
 Sometimes he calmly left the dining room and went down  the street for a shave while we were having our soup.
 He eventually  returned for the following course, happy and clean, his absence un-  reproved.
 Whenever the conversation of the guests interested him, Pepet en-  tered in quite as naturally as though he were sitting and being served  instead of serving.
 In any other country this would have been resented  as insolence, but here every courtesy and respect was shown to him  just as he showed it to others.
 If you said you were going to go by a  certain tram to a certain place to be there at three in the afternoon,  he interrupted, "Pardon me, Senora, you do not need to be there un-  til four-thirty, and it is much better to go by this other route."
 Like the rest I said, "Right, Pepet, we shall take your advice."
 With the expulsion of the Jews from Spain vanished the driving  force for commercial initiative, a quality, fortunately or unfortu-  nately, greatly lacking in the country.
 Perez Galdos said :   The capital defect of the Spaniards of your time is that you live  exclusively the life of words, and the language is so beautiful that  the delight in the sweet sound of it woos you to sleep.
 You speak too  much.
 You lavish without stint a wealth of phrases to conceal the  poverty of your actions.
 THE PEASANTS ARE KINGS 1 65   I did not believe this entirely true, but without doubt the Spanish  had a maddening habit of procrastination.
 It was "Si, Si, Sefiora,  assuredly, certainly," all gracious promising — and then nothing hap-  pening.
 To an American this was especially aggravating, because he  was always in a constant hurry; he expected to see and know the  whole of Spain in a month.
 But the Spaniard was not to be rushed.
 When asked what time it was, he might reply, "Perhaps four hours  more of the sun."
 This defiance of clocks and the absence of strain and bustle pleased  me personally.
 A story was told of a Spaniard going to seek his for-  tune in South America.
 After finding a position to his satisfaction he  worked three hours and then suddenly asked for his pay.
 When his  employer requested the cause of his abrupt leave-taking, he ex-  claimed angrily, "Do you think I'm going to spend all my life work-  ing for you ?"
 Don Quixote truly represented the Spanish temperament.
 The  strong enthusiasm which was shown for a project and the still  stronger imagination which not only saw the matter begun but also  finished, was Spanish to the last degree.
 The knight of La Mancha  thought nothing of invading cities and fighting giants, but it ended  in thinking about it.
 "I consider all that already done."
 Spanish character, so paradoxical, so attractive, and often so diffi-  cult to understand, fascinated me.
 I could exhaust myself in ad-  jectives — fickle, impetuous, rich-souled, ascetic, passionate, realistic,  individualistic.
 Courtesy and ceremony were second nature to the  Catalans of Barcelona, supposed to be the most dangerous and law-  less city in Europe, where thousands of anarchists gathered and  plotted and where bombs were thrown wrapped up in flowers.
 I remember how on the suburban trams going high into the moun-  tains, sellers of hot and cold omelets ran up and down the station  platforms.
 Anybody who bought one, before eating it himself, offered  it to all the passengers in the car, even though they might be carrying  their own lunches.
 To accept, however, was a shocking breach of good form.
 The  offerer protested that you must take it, and you had to think fast for  a plausible excuse.
 "My friends are waiting for me to dine with     1 66 MARGARET SANGER   them," or "I've just had something at the last station."
 You must  never, never, never accept.
 Havelock used to tell of a grave error he had once made when  traveling in Spain.
 When he had admired a piece of jewelry, the  lady to whom it belonged had removed it promptly and thrust it upon  him, saying, "I am honored to give it to you."
 She had been so in-  sistent that, though thoroughly uncomfortable, he had taken it — the  very worst thing he could have done.
 Soon it disappeared from his  effects, but what was his surprise on his next encounter with the  lady to find her wearing it again with no sign of discomposure.
 Her  servants had been so indignant that one of them had immediately  stolen it back.
 Spanish men were not only courteous to women but also to each  other, having no hesitancy at showing their regard and affection.
 Even the beggars addressed each other in the most high-flown  phrases, "Your Highness," or "Your Grace."
 One might ask,  "Where is Your Excellency to sleep tonight?"
 "Under the bridge, My Lord."
 They lacked that poverty-in-the-soul look that existed in the same  class in other countries.
 Assuming the condition of one tattered and  ragged specimen to be temporary, I questioned him, "What do you  do ordinarily?"
 "I saunter, I idle, I loaf."
 "But what work do you do ?"
 He drew himself up with the utmost hauteur, and said proudly,  "I do not work.
 I am a beggar."
 Doing business with the Spaniards required a knowledge of finesse  quite foreign to the average American.
 I, for example, saw a basket  in a shop window which I felt I really must have.
 My escort and I  went into the store.
 Since the proprietor did not speak English, all I  could do was gaze longingly, take it in my hand, and ask my com-  panion, "How much do you suppose this is?"
 He made no answer,  but pointed to something else on the wall, and we left without learn-  ing the price.
 I thought he was a terribly stupid person.
 The next day I passed the same place with Portet, and I begged,  "Oh, do come in and ask how much that basket is.
 I want to buy it."
 THE PEASANTS ARE KINGS 1 67   He smiled at me indulgently.
 "You know in our country we can-  not just go into places and find out prices.
 This man is a craftsman.
 We will talk to him."
 The proprietor and his wife shook hands with us and brought the  best wine from the cellar.
 Then the former said, "The Sefiora was  here yesterday.
 Tell us about her."
 "She comes from North America," answered Portet.
 "Tell us about North America."
 After forty minutes of this, during which I kept one eye on the  wicker container but was unable to divert the conversation to it,  we said, "Hasta la vista," and bowed our way out.
 A week later Portet and I, following the lodestone of my particu-  lar basket, sought the shop once more.
 Relations had now been estab-  lished, and we were entitled to ask about it.
 But we still could not  demand outright, "How much does it cost?"
 We must say, "This  basket must be worth so and so," making the figure higher than it  should be.
 "Oh, no, no, no, no!"
 the proprietor protested.
 "It is not worth  that.
 My humble hands fashioned it.
 It is hardly worth anything."
 He endeavored to make me accept it for nothing.
 I had to refuse  and once more try to make him take more than its value.
 Never was  there such a juggling before we finally arrived at the exact amount  of pesetas.
 On my departure from the country I had to break through a simi-  lar punctilio.
 I spent about seven weeks in Barcelona and was never  presented with a hotel bill — none for lodging, for laundry, for meals,  or for extras such as coffee.
 The day was coming when I must go  back to France, and I did not want too much Spanish money with  me — just enough to take me to the border.
 From there I had already  purchased my tickets for England.
 Each time I mentioned cuenta to the proprietor, bowing and turn-  ing up his palms he answered, "Si, Si, Sefiora," until finally, on my  last morning, I marched resolutely up to the desk and said, "I shall  miss my train if I have to go to the American Express to get more  money.
 You really must tell me how much I owe."
 He went upstairs, I waited.
 Finally he descended, hjs hair stand-     1 68 MARGARET SANGER   ing on end.
 He threw the reckoning down on the table with a most  vindictive look.
 I glanced at it.
 The total was very low; it could  barely have covered the cost of the food.
 "I have been humiliated!"
 he exclaimed dramatically.
 "Whatever is the matter?"
 I questioned.
 "We are living in the most hellish country on earth !"
 "Why, what's happened?"
 "A lady comes all the way from North America.
 She visits us,  she stays here, we like her, and I must present her with this sordid  bill!"
 Some day when the fighting is over I shall return again to Spain.
 Chapter Fourteen   O, TO BE IN ENGLAND     WHEN I reached London it was spring, and beautiful as only  spring in England can be.
 I longed to get out into the coun-  try and, through the kindness of Dr. Alice Vickery, was soon lodged  in a private home in Hampstead Gardens next door to her quaint,  ivy-covered, red-brick house.
 In the large garden in back we often  had tea under the blossoming apple trees.
 There, dressed in gray or  purple, with white collar and a wisp of lace not quite a bonnet on  her head, she entertained the young and modern women of England  who were working for reforms of no matter what kind.
 Still, at  the age of eighty, she was alert upon all questions of the day, busily  engaged in writing leaflets or articles pointing out the weak spots  in social programs.
 Dr. Vickery was so full of the living side of Neo-Malthusianism  that I could ill afford to forego one possible hour with her.
 Often  when we found ourselves alone in her drawing room I sat at her  feet and heard the story of the pioneer Malthusians, what they had  had to undergo, and what they had accomplished.
 For my benefit she  brought out of her attic a veritable treasure of the early days — old  circulars, pamphlets, and letters now, I am afraid, destroyed.
 Almost every afternoon, taking her walking stick and with Dr.  Binnie Dunlop for a companion, Dr. Vickery boarded the tram to  attend some gathering.
 She had been one of the first to welcome the  militant suffragettes, and she never missed a suffrage meeting, nor,  for that matter, any other significant one on infant or maternal wel-   169     170 MARGARET SANGER   fare, eugenics, or public health.
 She always went with the definite  purpose of getting the audience down to fundamentals.
 In time she  became a familiar figure.
 As soon as she entered a hall you could  feel those present aligning themselves against her.
 They knew she  was going to bring up a controversial subject that no one wanted dis-  cussed, such as birth control.
 From the  lips of this Victorian old lady it sounded strange to hear frank re-  marks about the importance of limiting offspring.
 Dr. Dunlop, with  Scotch determination, was also bent on setting people straight; he  followed her and expounded the medical aspects of population.
 In June Dr. Vickery asked me to tell my story to a group of her  friends.
 Among them was Edith How-Martyn, who had recently  graduated from the London School of Economics.
 But already the  zealous ardor of this small and slight person had landed her in jail  for suffrage.
 She had now split from Mrs. Pankhurst, unable to  subscribe to the militant policy.
 The American woman is apt to say, "Anything I can do for you,  let me know," and then go away, her conscience relieved.
 The Eng-  lishwoman states definitely that she can get up a meeting, bring you  in touch with so and so, give you money, or get money for you.
 Edith How-Martyn in her quiet manner said to me, "I think what  you have told us today should have a larger audience.
 Will you give  a lecture if we arrange it for you?
 We'll do the donkey work; all  you have to do is speak."
 In a few days the time and place were set.
 I was to appear in  Fabian Hall the following month under my own name.
 The chairs in the auditorium were wooden and the interior was  unheated — not like an American hall.
 The audience was quite differ-  ent from the little Socialist gatherings of working women I had ad-  dressed at home.
 The atrocious and hideous English hats gave it an  intellectual and highly respectable air.
 These representatives of nearly  every social and civic organization in London, had the rationalist at-  titude and preferred to listen to principles and theories.
 I told them  what I had been trying to do through the Woman Rebel and ex-     O, TO BE IN ENGLAND 171   plained my private and personal conception of what Feminism should  mean; that is, women should first free themselves from biological  slavery, which could best be accomplished through birth control.
 This was, generally speaking, the introduction of the term into  England.
 Many came up and talked to me afterwards, among them Marie  Stopes, a paleontologist who had made a reputation with work on  coal.
 Would I dome to her home and discuss the book she was writ-  ing?
 Over the teacups I found her to have an open, frank manner that  quite won me.
 She took me into her confidence at once, stating her  marriage had been unconsummated, and for that reason she was se-  curing an annulment.
 Her book, Married Love, was based largely  on her own experiences and the unhappiness that came to people  from ignorance and lack of understanding in wedlock, and she  hoped it would help others.
 She was extremely interested in the  correlation of marital success to tiirth control knowledge, although  she admitted she knew nothing about the latter.
 Could I tell her  exactly what methods were used and how?
 In spite of my belief  that the Netherlands clinics could be improved upon, I was fired with  fervor for the idea as such, and described them as I had seen them.
 Later when I came back to the United States, I brought with me  the manuscript of Married Love, and tried every established pub-  lisher in New York, receiving a rejection from each.
 Finally I in-  duced Dr. William J. Robinson to publish it under the auspices of  his Critic and Guide, a monthly magazine which took up many sub-  jects the Journal of the American Medical Association would not  touch.
 Unfortunately even here it had to be expurgated.
 When I  cabled Dr. Stopes I had a publisher in New York, her new husband,  H. V. Roe, financed an unabridged English edition which appeared  simultaneously.
 No one can underestimate the work Marie Stopes has done.
 Though her other books, Radiant Motherhood and Wise Parent-  hood, were limited in value because they were based on limited per-  sonal experience, she has handled sex knowledge with delicacy and  wisdom, placing it in a modern, practical category.
 She started the  first birth control clinic in England, but she was not a pioneer in the     172 MARGARET SANGER   movement.
 Annie Besant, Dr. Vickery, the Drysdales, and many  others had plowed the ground and sown the seed.
 It needed only  a new voice, articulate and clear as hers, to push her into the front  ranks of the movement, where she must have been much surprised^  to find herself.
 Many people went out of their way to be kind, to me in those days,  I was often asked to the home of E. P. C. Haynes, solicitor, writer  on freedom of the press, and a fine adviser.
 Around his table, one of  the grandest set anywhere in England, could usually be found a large  group of distinguished people.
 Among them was the American Civil  War veteran, Major G. P. Putnam, a dapper, lively, alert little pub-  lisher with a white mustache and cold blue eyes.
 He was conservative  and formal, but at the same time a firebrand in his fashion and an en-  thusiast for certain issues.
 Haynes had invited him to hear my views,  and himself introduced the subject of birth control.
 Thus I was en-  abled to pave the way for having G. P. Putnam's Sons eventually  take over the publication of Married Love in this country, although  not until 193 1, through the Major's efforts, was the ban lifted which  prohibited the importation of the complete edition into the United  States.
 Harold Cox, brilliant Member of Parliament and editor of the  Edinburgh Review, was another delightful host at Old Kennards in  Buckinghamshire.
 In the Review he was constantly helping to form  an enlightened public opinion on birth control, having every argu-  ment at his finger tips and never missing a chance to answer ques-  tions in the London Times.
 Hugh and Janet de Selincourt's place at Torrington, Sussex, where  Shelley was born, always was a haven of refuge.
 After five days'  work in town I could come, tired and pent-up, for a week-end.
 I  loved the joy and simplicity of the music there, the lighthearted con-  versation, and tea on the lawn.
 From there you saw English ivy  climbing up to the thatched roof, and a pond, a small one, which had  been converted into a swimming pool.
 The general impression was  of shrubbery and old walls with fruit trees trellised against them.
 Beyond the velvet green grass were red tree roses, beautiful borders  of pink lupins, and delphiniums, the tallest and bluest I have ever  seen, From the dining-room window the effect was that of a tapestry.
 0, TO BE IN ENGLAND 1 73   I wanted some day to embody the rambling spirit of this home in one  of my own.
 Here again laughter bound me to these people.
 We laughed and  we laughed and we laughed.
 Whole days were spent in gaiety over  the most absurd things.
 Hugh could never quite accept me as a cru-  sader; he went into roars of merriment whenever I mentioned the  subject of population — it was too much for a woman in a yellow  dress to bother about.
 But many of my week-ends were spent in "bothering" about it.
 At Sunday afternoon labor meetings in London someone was always  holding forth.
 "Here's a chance for you to talk birth control," Rose  Witcop once urged.
 It was an opportunity to reach working people and I agreed, but  lunch of that day found me trembling.
 Henry Sara, a young man  but old in the ways of the speaker, noticed I was not eating or drink-  ing and could hardly utter a word.
 "I say, what's the idea of all this  worry?
 What you must think about is that everybody there comes  merely to hear somebody or anybody.
 They've no notion what you're  going to say.
 Anything is all right with them.
 Get that in your mind  and stop worrying."
 His friendly encouragement gave me a little more fortitude, but  on the way to the hall Rose Witcop took me severely to task for the  trembling, which I seemed unable to stop.
 "These are just plain  people you're going to speak to.
 It's utter nonsense to be nervous  about it."
 When Rose stood up to introduce me, she began, "Comrades — "  There was a long pause.
 For the second time she tried in a less as-  sured tone, "Comrades — " Another interval and a third time, in a  voice so weak she herself could hardly hear it, she attempted, "Com-  rades — " Then, barely whispering, "Excuse me," she sat down.
 By  comparison my speech was not bad.
 Writing at this time was a means of expression much easier than  speaking.
 I had not forgotten my subscribers to the Woman Rebel.
 I had to fulfill my obligations and supply something to take the place  of the three issues which I had been unable to furnish them.
 There-  fore, I wrote three pamphlets on methods of contraception in Eng-  land, the Netherlands, and France respectively.
 Printing them cost     174 MARGARET SANGER   me a considerable amount of money.
 My friends in Canada, knowing  I was not affluent, now and then when they had a little windfall or  unexpected dividend sent me small checks of from five to ten  pounds, saying, "To use for your work."
 These had come in quite  often.
 ( On one occasion I had squeezed my pocketbook dry paying for  the last pamphlet ; I had not another penny to buy stamps.
 Ten days  had gone by, and I kept wishing something might come in to help  me out.
 That morning a letter arrived.
 I tore it apart and a money  order dropped out.
 Hurrying as fast as I could to the post office  I received the cash, spent it all on stamps, and hastened back in  the hope of getting the whole edition off on the Arabic; in wartime  sailings had to be considered.
 One batch of envelopes had already  gone into the pillar box, and I was just finishing addressing and  stamping the second lot when I heard the knocker on the door be-  low clatter through the house.
 It had the ring of authority and  sounded so ominous that I felt it must have something to do with me.
 Sure enough, in a few moments a bobby and a man in plain clothes  appeared at my threshold.
 They asked whether I were the person who  had been sending quantities of mail to a foreign address.
 "Yes," I admitted in a small voice, wondering what on earth was  going to happen now.
 The bobby came closer, showed me an unopened envelope, and  demanded sternly, "Did you post this?"
 "I think so."
 "Madam, in England we never put His Majesty on upside down.
 We do not represent our King standing on his head.
 Will you please,  in affixing your stamps, pay attention to the customs of our coun-  try?"
 The care with which I stuck on the remainder right side up de-  layed me so that I barely made the Arabic.
 Only then did I have  time to read the letter.
 I took it out of my bag, thinking how won-  derful it was of my friends to send me the money and how much  good I had been able to do with it.
 To my consternation and amaze-  ment it was not for my use, but to buy gifts — certain books to be sent  back as soon as possible.
 The money was gone and the presents could not be purchased.
 O, TO BE IN ENGLAND 175   After all this rush and pother the Arabic was torpedoed and went  down with the entire two thousand pamphlets.
 I made another effort,  this time successfully completed, and shaped an article on Emerson,  Thoreau, and Humphrey Noyes and the Oneida Community, about  whom the English were talking.
 Meanwhile I had written to Canada apologizing and saying I ex-  pected shortly to be able to fulfill the commissions.
 I now had an  opening ahead of me for a career abroad.
 Portet's publishing house  in Barcelona was closely allied with others in Paris.
 Through him I  was offered the job of choosing appropriate books in English, whicll  could be published in both French and Spanish, especially works  that would be of help to women and labor.
 The salary was satisfac-  tory, the job itself interesting, and it gave promise of permanency as  soon as the War should be over.
 I had almost decided to take it,  even selecting a little house in Versailles with sunny rooms and a  garden for the children.
 There was only one drawback — the subtle, persistent dread that  something was wrong with Peggy.
 Night after night her voice star-  tled me from deep sleep and left me in a state of agitation until I  received the next letter containing news that all was going well.
 I  tried to dismiss this fear and would have it partially submerged, but  always the same troubled voice rang in my ears, "Mother, Mother,  are you coming back?"
 One definite though inexplicable experience kept puzzling me.
 As I unclosed my eyes in the morning, or even before I was completely  awake, I became conscious of the number 6, as though that numeral  were repeating itself again and again in my drowsy mind.
 I often  tried to fit it into some event of the day — six o'clock, sixpence, the  price of tea, or anything else amusing, and as casual or silly as I  could make up.
 This I did to protect myself against the premonition  which seemed at first to come upon me with the recurrence of this  number.
 Later, like a leaf on a wall calendar, NOV. 6 stood out.
 '/When the publisher asked me to commit myself by signing a  three-year contract to stay in Paris, I said, "Yes, I will if you'll  guarantee to lock me up or send me to Africa or the North Pole until  after November 6th."
 "Why November 6th?"
 176 MARGARET SANGER   "I don't know, but I'm certain that something important is to oc-  cur on that day, something different, and something which will affect  my entire future."
 He drew up our plans as of January 1st of the following year.
 Edith Ellis was lecturing in America, and by letter we arranged  for her to bring back Peggy and Grant, because it appeared I might  be staying for some time.
 Then, since only Peggy seemed lonely  and in need of her mother and Grant was happy in school, it was  determined he should be left there.
 Edith was to sail with Peggy on  the Lusitania.
 i When word was flashed that the liner had been torpedoed, I stood  in the middle of the night in front of the Cunard office, scanning  with horror the mounting ranks of missing and dead.
 Not until  two in the morning was the list complete and could I breathe once  more ; neither Peggy's nor Edith's name was on it.
 Edith had received  one of those slips warning prospective passengers that the ship might  be blown up, and was one of the few who had heeded the admonition  and transferred to another boat.
 jEven so, the thought of being re-  sponsible for Peggy had been too alarming and she had decided not  to bring her.
 The War had sent many Americans back from Europe and Bill  had returned to New York.
 I had had a detailed letter from him  describing the stirring events of the previous December.
 A man in-  troducing himself as A. Heller had called upon him at his studio  and requested a copy of Family Limitation, pleading that he was  poor, had too large a family, and was a friend of mine.
 Bill said he  was sorry but we had agreed that I was to carry on my work inde-  pendently of him, and he did not even think he had any of the  pamphlets.
 However, the man's story was so pathetic that he rum-  maged around and by chance found one in the library drawer.
 A few days later Bill opened the door to a gray-haired, side-  whiskered six-footer who lost no time in announcing, "I am Mr.  Comstock.
 I have a warrant for your arrest on the grounds of cir-  culating obscene literature."
 Accompanying him was the so-called  Heller, who turned out to be Charles J. Bamberger, an agent of the  New York Society for the Suppression of Vice.
 The three departed     O, TO BE IN ENGLAND 1 77   but Bill soon found himself in a restaurant instead of the police sta-  tion.
 When he protested that he wished to consult a lawyer with-  out delay, Comstock, between mouthfuls of lunch, offered advice.
 "Young man, I want to act as a brother to you.
 Lawyers are ex-  pensive and will only aggravate your case."
 Here he patted Bill on  the shoulder.
 "Plead guilty to this charge, and I'll ask for a sus-  pended sentence."
 Bill's answer was that, though he had been in Europe when the  pamphlet had been written, he believed in the principles embodied in  it, and that, therefore, his own principles were at stake.
 He would  not plead guilty.
 "You know as well as I do, Mr. Comstock, there's  nothing obscene in that pamphlet."
 "Young man, I have been in this work for twenty years, and  that leaflet is the worst thing I have ever seen."
 This sort of conversation went on all afternoon; Comstock even  tried to bribe Bill to turn states' evidence by disclosing my where-  abouts.
 It was his custom to arrive at the police station so late that  his prisoner could not communicate with a lawyer or bonding of-  fice and had to spend the night in jail.
 He could then make a state-  ment to the papers that his captive had been unable to secure bail.
 When Comstock and Bill at last reached the Yorkville Police  Court and the clerk had asked the latter how he wished to plead,  Comstock spoke for him, "He pleads guilty."
 "I do not," expostulated Bill.
 "I plead not guilty."
 He was arraigned and bail fixed at five hundred dollars, but he  was obliged to spend thirty-six hours in jail before it could be pro-  cured.
 In September I had word that, after several postponements, his  trial had finally come up before Justices Mclnerney, Herbert, and  Salmon.
 He started to read his typewritten statement.
 "I admit that  I broke the law, and yet I claim that in every real sense it is the law  and not I that is on trial here today."
 Justice Mclnerney interrupted him.
 "You admit you are guilty,  and all this statement of yours is just opinions.
 I'm not going to 1  have a lot of rigmarole on the record.
 We've no time to bother.
 This  book is not only indecent but immoral.
 Its circulation is a menace     178 MARGARET SANGER   to society.
 Too many women are going around advocating woman  suffrage.
 If they would go around advocating bearing children we  should be better off.
 "The statute gives you the privilege of being fined for this of-  fense, but I do not believe this should be so.
 A man, guilty as you  are, ought to have no alternative from a prison sentence.
 One hun-  dred and fifty dollars or thirty days in jail."
 "Then I want to say to the court," shouted Bill, leaning forward  and raising his hand for greater emphasis, "that I would rather be  in jail with my self-respect than in your place without it!"
 Although he was convinced of the justice of my cause, this was  the first and only copy of the pamphlet he had ever given out It  was one of life's sharpest ironies that, despite our separation, he  should have been drawn into my battle, and go to prison for it.
 When I received Bill's letter bearing this news, I tore across the  lawn to Dr. Vickery's.
 Dr. Drysdale happened to be there, and in  his indignation his face became red and his hands were clenched.
 He  tramped up and down the floor in a frenzy of rage that such a thing  could be done to any human being.
 I am still touched when I think  of this mild, gentle person being moved to depths of anger over an  injustice which did not affect him personally.
 The question before me was, "Should I go back?"
 As had gone  Bill's trial so would probably go my own.
 I did not want to sacrifice  myself in a lost cause.
 I was young, and knew I should be used for  something.
 Temporarily postponing my final answer to the publish-  ing house, I decided to return to the United States, but only long  enough to survey the situation, to gather up my children.
 I intended,  if possible, to come back to that little house in Versailles.
 T     Chapter Fifteen     HIGH HANGS THE GAUNTLET     "Let God and man decree  Laws for themselves and not for me;  Their deeds I judge and much condemn  Yet when did I make laws for them?"
 A. E. HOUSMAN     .
 fff- fff - fff - fff- fff- fff- fff- fff- fff-  5SSr N\V* \\V* \W \W \W SiW VW V»V*   HE end of September, 19 15, I set sail from Bordeaux.
 \[ re-  member how interminable that voyage was across the dan-  gerous, foggy Atlantic.
 The shadow of the Lusitania hung over us.
 The ship was absolutely dark, and tension crackled in the very air.
 My own thoughts were black as the night and the old nervousness,  the nervousness that came with a queer gripping at the pit of the  stomach, was upon me ; a dread presentiment and a foreboding were  with me almost incessantly.
 When I succeeded in snatching a few hours' sleep I was startled  out of unpleasant dreams.
 One of them was of attempting to strug-  gle through a crowded street against traffic; I was pushed to the  curb and had to make my way cautiously.
 The mechanical, autom-  aton-like crowds were walking, walking, walking, always in the  opposite direction.
 Then suddenly in my dream the people turned  into mice — thousands and thousands of them ; they even smelled like  mice.
 I awakened and had to open the porthole to rid the room of  that musty smell of mice.
 At last the lights of Staten Island, winking like specters in the  dim dawn, signaled our safe arrival at quarantine.
 As the ship sidled  along the wharf at West Fourteenth Street on that gray October  morning, a new exhilaration, a new hope arose in my heart.
 To see American faces again after the unutterable despair of   179     l8o MARGARET SANGER   Europe, to sense the rough democracy of the porters and of the  good-hearted, hard-boiled taxi-drivers ; to breathe in the crisp, elec-  tric autumn air of home — all these brought with them an irresistible  gladness.
 Because I wanted the feeling to linger, I refused a taxi,  picked up my small bag, and walked away from the pier, looking  about.
 [At the first news stand I passed I caught sight of the words,  "What Shall We Do About Birth Control?"
 on the cover of the  Pictorial Review.
 It seemed strange to be greeted, not by friends  or relatives, but by a phrase of your own carried on a magazine.
 I  purchased it and, singing to myself, went on to a hotel where the  children were brought to me.
 I cannot describe the joy of being re-  united with them.
 That evening I sat down at my desk and wrote several letters.
 I  notified Judge Hazel and Assistant District Attorney Content that  I was now back and ready for trial, and inquired whether the in-  dictments of the previous year were still pending; I was politely  informed that they were.
 A note more difficult to compose went to the National Birth Con-  trol League, which had been re-organized in my absence under the  leadership of Mary Ware Dennett, Clara Stillman, and Anita Block.
 To it had been turned over all my files, including the list of sub-  scribers to the Woman Rebel.
 I asked them what moral support I  could expect from the League, saying this would help to determine  the length of my stay.
 Mrs. Stillman, the secretary, invited me to call a few days later at  her home, where an executive meeting was to convene.
 I went with  keen anticipation, totally unprepared for the actual answer.
 The  committee had met.
 Mrs. Dennett, Mrs. Stillman, and Anita were  all there.
 Mrs. Dennett spoke for the group ; the National Birth Con-  trol League disagreed with my methods, my tactics, with everything  I had done.
 Such an organization as theirs, the function of which was  primarily to change the laws in an orderly and proper manner, could  not logically sanction anyone who had broken those laws.
 After delivering this ultimatum, Mrs. Dennett walked to the door  with me.
 Would I mind giving her the names and addresses of those  socially prominent and distinguished persons I had found on my     HIGH HANGS THE GAUNTLET l8l   European trip to be interested?
 Heartsick as I was over my recep-  tion, I was also amused at her shrewdness.
 Mrs. Dennett was a good promoter and experienced campaigner,  a capable office executive, an indefatigable worker for suffrage and  peace, with a background that might have been invaluable.
 I often  regretted that we could not have combined our efforts.
 Had we been  able to do so the movement might have been pushed many years  ahead:   My fourth communication was to Dr. William J. Robinson, an  emigre from the land of orthodox medicine, who was possessed of  a sensitivity to current moods.
 When he had realized that Will  Durant's lectures had aroused interest in sex psychology, he had  stepped in to speak to larger audiences, using a more popular ap-  proach, although, as far as I know, he had never publicly discussed  the prevention of conception.
 Dr. Abraham Jacoby, beloved dean of the profession, in accept-  ing the presidency of the Academy of Medicine, had backed birth  control, and through Dr. Robinson's endeavors a small committee  had later been formed to look into it.
 From the reports that had  come to me I could not discover whether any harmonious agreement  that the subject lay within the province of medicine had been made.
 To my inquiry Dr. Robinson replied that the committee had met  only once and he considered I could expect no support from them.
 He enclosed a check for ten dollars towards the expenses of my trial.
 Here were two disappointments to face.
 Both these organizations  had seemed so well suited to continue progress: one to change the  laws, the other to take proper medical charge.
 Neither had fulfilled  my hopes and therefore I felt I had to enter the fray again.
 My  burning concern for the thousands of women who went unregarded  could apparently find no official endorsement ; birth control was  back again where it had started.
 I was convinced I had to depend  solely upon the compassionate insight of intelligent women, which  I was certain was latent and could be aroused.
 But these problems were suddenly swept aside by a crisis of a  more intimate nature, a tragedy about which I find myself still un-  able to write, though so many years have passed.
 A few days after my arrival Peggy was taken ill with pneumonia.
 1 82 MARGARET SANGER   When Mr.
 Content telephoned to say I had better come down and  talk it over, I could not go.
 He was extremely kind, assuring me  there was no hurry and he would postpone the trial until I was  free.
 This allowed me to devote my whole attention and time to her.
 Peggy died the morning of November 6, 191 5. ;   The joy in the fullness of life went out of it then and has never  quite returned/; Deep in the hidden realm of my consciousness my  little girl has continued to live, and in that strange, mysterious place  where reality and imagination meet, she has grown up to woman-  hood.
 There she leads an ideal existence untouched by harsh actuality  and disillusion.
 [ Men and women from all classes, from nearly every city in Amer-  ica, poured upon me their sympathy.
 Money for my trial came  beyond my understanding — not large amounts, but large for the  senders — from miners of West Virginia and lumbermen of the  North Woods.
 Some had walked five miles to read Family Limita-  tion; others had had it copied for them.
 Women wrote of children  dead a quarter of a century for whom they were still secretly mourn-  ing, and sent me pictures and locks of hair of their own dead babies.
 I had never fully realized until then that the loss of a child remains  un forgotten to every mother during her lifetime.
 \   Public opinion had been focused on Comstock's activities by  Bill's sentence, and the liberals had been aroused.
 Committees of two  and three came to request me to take up the purely legislative task  of changing the Federal law.
 Aid would be forthcoming — special  trains to Congress, investigations, commissions, and victory in sight  before the year was over!
 It was tempting.
 It seemed so feasible  on the surface, so much easier than agonizing delays through the  courts.
 Many others advised me just as before that in pleading  guilty I was choosing the best field in which to make my fight.
 One of those to urge me towards a middle course was Max  Eastman, who possessed an unusual evenness of temper and toler-  ance towards all who opposed him as well as a keen mind and keen  imagination which followed hypotheses to logical conclusions.
 This  soft-voiced, lethargic poet, mentally and emotionally controlled, had  too great a sense of humor and ability in visualizing events in their  proper perspective to advocate direct action.
 HIGH HANGS THE GAUNTLET 183   Max made an appointment for me to see Samuel Untermyer, au-  thority on constitutional law and a person to whom liberals turned  because of the fight he had put up against the trusts; he might  straighten out the legal aspects.
 I found him enthroned in his lux-  urious office amid the most magnificent American Beauty roses —  dozens and dozens and dozens.
 With his piercing eyes and head too  large for his frame, he appeared a disembodied brain.
 Though the  appointment had been made with difficulty — writing and telephon-  ing back and forth through secretaries to be verified — time now  was nothing to him.
 He was so smooth, so courteous, so sympathetic,  so unhurried; he seemed to understand and to be ready to lift the  load of legal worry from my mind.
 Picking up the telephone, he said, "Get me Mr.
 Content."
 Then,  "Harold, come on over to my office and bring your record on Mrs.
 Sanger."
 When the District Attorney had arrived, Mr. Untermyer' s whole  voice changed.
 He spoke sternly to the young man.
 "Why, Harold,  what are you trying to do — persecuting this little woman, so frail  and so delicate, the mother of a family?
 You don't want to put her  behind bars, do you?
 She's doing a noble work in the world and  here you are behaving like this!
 Are you representing the Govern-  ment or are you merely prejudiced in your own behalf?"
 Mr.
 Content replied respectfully, "Well, Mr. Untermyer, we don't  want to prosecute Mrs. Sanger, but we want her to promise to obey  the law."
 "Has she broken the law ?"
 "We have positive proof that she has violated it on a very large  scale."
 Mr. Untermyer immediately assured him, "Why, of course, she'll  promise not to break any more laws.
 Is that all it is?
 You just quash  that indictment and forget about it."
 Mr.
 Content left.
 Mr. Untermyer turned to me genially and said,  "Well, you see ?
 We've fixed that up."
 "What's going to happen?
 The law will be the same, won't it?"
 "Why, yes."
 "What was that you said about a promise?"
 "Oh, yes, write me a letter saying you won't break the law again."
 184 MARGARET SANGER   "I couldn't promise that, Mr.
 Untermyer."
 "What?"
 "No, I couldn't do that.
 The law is there.
 Something must hap-  pen to it."
 "The law may not be what it should be, but you'll never get any-  where by violating it.
 It must be changed by legal methods ; gather  all your friends and go to Congress."
 Again I stated my position.
 The law specified obscenity, and I had  done nothing obscene.
 I even had the best of the Government as re-  garded the precise charge.
 I had not given contraceptive information  in the Woman Rebel, and therefore had not violated the law either  in spirit or principle.
 But I had done so in circulating Family Limi-  tation, and that would inevitably be brought up.
 I really wanted this,  so that birth controj would be defined once and for all as either  obscene or not obscene.
 Mr. Untermyer took down one of his ponderous books and read  over the section in question.
 Again he said, "The evidence is that  you have violated the law.
 We don't separate the spirit from the  letter.
 It is all there.
 It seems to me that pleading guilty would let  you out of your troubles without loss of dignity.
 You should con-  sider yourself fortunate at the suggested outcome.
 You can gain  nothing by trial.
 You cannot even get publicity in these days when  the papers are crowded with war news and the big events of history  are happening."
 I still could not admit his interpretation.
 You had to differentiate  between the things mentioned in that law and actual obscenity; the  courts would some day have to decide on this.
 "You have no case," Mr. Untermyer persisted.
 "If you have  broken the law, there is nothing anyone can do or say to argue that  fact away.
 We must prevent your going to jail, however.
 I'll see  what I can do."
 "I'm not concerned with going to jail.
 Going in or staying out  has nothing to do with it.
 The question at stake is whether I have  or have not done something obscene.
 If I have done nothing obscene  I cannot plead guilty."
 Mr. Untermyer was upset.
 Instead of his former warmth I was  aware of a curt and cold politeness.
 I went from his office feeling I     HIGH HANGS THE GAUNTLET 1 85   had had an opportunity to make a powerful friend and had lost it  by refusing to accept the legal point of view.
 Max also was decidedly angry.
 His attitude was, "We tried to  help you, and you declined help."
 He wrote formally:   You could accompany your plea of guilty with a statement, both  before the Court and for the press, which would make it a far more  signal attack upomthe law to whose violation you would be pleading  guilty than a plea of not guilty.
 It would do a thousand times more  good.
 At the same time it would satisfy your pride, or your feeling  that you ought to be brave enough to stand up for what you think,  or whatever it is that is making you refuse the advice of counsel.
 I would not plead guilty on any count.
 They could not make me.
 I felt deep within me that I was right and they were wrong.
 I still  had that naive trust that when the facts were known, the Govern-  ment would not wilfully condemn millions^0f wdnten to death, mis-  ery, or abortion which left them physically damaged and spiritually  crippled.
 I had no prac-  tice in public speaking ; mine was the valor of faith.
 However, I was  certain that speaking from the fullness of my heart I would be  guided by the greatness and profundity of my conviction.
 In spite  of the old adage that "he who has himself for a lawyer has a fool  for a client," I was confident that any jury of honest men would  acquit me.
 I asked Mr.
 Content to put my case on the calendar as soon as  possible.
 It was called for the end of November, then set for Janu-  ary 1 8th, then January 24th.
 I used to go almost weekly to demand  that it take place, always stressing the fact that I wanted a trial by  jury.
 The  twinkle in his eyes was reflected in mine; we both knew that he as  well as I had been technically breaking the law.
 1 86 MARGARET SANGER   As the New York Sun commented, "The Sanger case presents  the anomaly of a prosecutor loath to prosecute and a defendant  anxious to be tried."
 The newspapers were taking ever-increasing  notice.
 A photograph of myself and my two young sons circulated  widely and seemed to alter the attitude of a heretofore cynical pub-  lic.
 At that time I thought the papers were against me, but looking  over these old clippings today I realize this was merely the imper-  sonality of the news columns.
 Their editorial hesitancy made them  appear, like all other conservative and reactionary forces, my op-  ponents.
 But the rank and file of American newspaperdom, though  they must always have their little jokes, have always been sympa-  thetic.
 They printed the letter to Woodrow Wilson, initiated by Marie  Stopes.
 It "begged to call the attention" of the President to the fact  that I was in danger of criminal prosecution for circulating a pam-  phlet on birth control, which was allowed in every civilized country  except the United States; that England had passed through the  phase of prohibiting this subject a generation before; and that to  suppress serious and disinterested opinion on anything so important  was detrimental to human progress.
 It respectfully urged the Presi-  dent to exert his powerful influence in behalf of free speech and the  betterment of the race.
 \This letter was invaluable by reason of its  signatories — Lena Ashwell, William Archer, Percy Ames, Aylmer  Maude, M. C. Stopes, Arnold Bennett, Edward Carpenter, Gilbert  Murray, and H. G. Wells, whose name was newsj If a group of such  eminence in England could afford to stand by me, then the same  kind of people here might be less timorous.
 As public sentiment grew, telegrams and letters showered upon  Judge Clayton demanding the dismissal of the charges against me.
 He piled them in wastebaskets and remarked in a bored tone to  Mr.
 Content, "Take these Sanger letters away."
 That I was pre-  paring to go to court undefended by counsel was making the mat-  ter harder for them.
 My radical allies were, according to their habit, collecting money  for my defense, but this had no effect on my private financial status.
 My sister, Ethel, who was living with me, thought I ought to be     HIGH HANGS THE GAUNTLET 1 87   considering the matter.
 One day she said, "I've a good case for  you.
 Wouldn't you like to take it?"
 "What kind?"
 "Maternity.
 She expects to be delivered in a day or two — probably.
 a Caesarian.
 She asked for me, but I'd rather you had it."
 "I'm not interested, thank you.
 I've given up nursing."
 "Well, Mrs. Sanger," she remarked ironically, "would you mind  telling me what you're going to do to earn your living?"
 "I'm not interested in earning my living.
 I've cast myself upon  the universe and it will take care of me."
 She looked at me sadly and with worried apprehension.
 Three days later Ethel received the anticipated summons.
 On her  way out she picked up the mail at the door.
 In it was a letter from  a California acquaintance of hers who did not know where I was  but had her address.
 "Will you please give the enclosed forty-five  dollars to Margaret Sanger from her sympathizers?"
 Ethel handed it to me with the resigned comment, "Well, here's  your check from God."
 The editor of the Woman Rebel had struck her single match of  defiance, but she could be of slight significance in the forward march  towards "women's rights."
 In Feminist circles I was little known.
 With my personal sorrow, my manifold domestic duties, my social  shyness, I avoided meeting new people.
 My attitude thus created  some reluctance among those who might otherwise have hastened  to my aid.
 Indeed, I wanted a certain type of support, but I could  not take the initiative in asking for it.
 This was suddenly done for me.
 One afternoon I was invited  to a tea arranged by Henrietta Rodman, Feminist of Feminists, in  her Greenwich Village apartment.
 Wells was particularly sanctified  among her group and I must be all right if he approved.
 As a result  of that meeting the suffrage worker,, Alice Carpenter, set the wheels  in motion for a dinner at the Brevoort Hotel to be held January  23rd, the evening preceding my trial.
 I was to be given a chance  to say my say, speak my piece before a gathering of influential peo-  ple.
 Although I did not see her until some years after, I thanked her  in my heart many times for what she had done.
 1 88 MARGARET SANGER   In the ballroom were collected several hundred people.
 Mary  Heaton Vorse, Dr. Mary Halton, Jack Reed, Dr. Robinson, Frances  Brooks Ackerman, Walter Lippmann, then of the New Republic,  and Mrs. Thomas Hepburn, the Kathy Houghton of my Corning  childhood, all were there.
 As we were about to go in to dinner, Rose Pastor Stokes, the  Chairman, took me aside and said, "Something very disturbing has  happened.
 We've just been talking to Dr. Jacoby.
 He has a speech  ready in which he intends to blast you to the skies for interfering  in what should be a strictly medical matter.
 Remember he's greatly  admired and he's speaking here tonight for the doctors.
 We meant to  have you come at the end of the program but now we're going to  put you first so that you can spike his guns."
 My trepidation was increased.
 Nevertheless, I plunged into my  carefully prepared maiden speech in behalf of birth control.
 Fortu-  nately I had already planned to upbraid the doctors who daily saw  the conditions which had so moved me and yet made it necessary for  a person like myself, not equipped as they were, to stir up public  opinion.
 It was like carrying coals to Newcastle; they should have  been teaching me.
 I said I recognized that many of those before me of diverse out-  looks and temperaments would support birth control propaganda  if carried out in what they regarded as a safe and sane manner,  although they did not countenance the methods I had been follow-  ing in my attempt to arouse working women to the fact that having  a child was a supreme responsibility.
 There was nothing new or  radical in birth control, which Aristotle and Plato as well as many  modern thinkers had demonstrated.
 But the ideas of wise men and  scientists were sterile and did not affect the tremendous facts of  life among the disinherited.
 All the while their discussions had  been proceeding, the people themselves had been and still were  blindly, desperately, practicing birth control by the most barbaric  methods — infanticide, abortion, and other crude ways.
 I might have  taken up a policy of safety, sanity, and conservatism — but would  I have secured a hearing?
 Admittedly physicians and scientists had  far more technical knowledge than I, but I had found myself in  the position of one who had discovered a house was on fire and it     HIGH HANGS THE GAUNTLET 1 89   was up to me to shout out the warning.
 Afterwards others, more  experienced in executive organization, could gather together and  direct all the sympathy and interest which had been aroused.
 Only  in this way could I be vindicated.
 Since my charge had forestalled his, the venerable Dr. Jacoby  either had to answer me or shift his ground.
 He chose the latter  course and talked -on the question of quality in population, which  might perhaps have been construed as in my favor.
 Many of the women present were comfortable examples of the  manner in which birth control could enable them to lead dignified  lives.
 Elsie Clews Parsons made the suggestion that twenty-five who  had practiced it should rise in court with me and plead guilty before  the law.
 But only one volunteered.
 What surprised me most was  the voice of Mary Ware Dennett announcing that she represented  the National Birth Control League and that that body was going  to stand behind Margaret Sanger in her ordeal — subscriptions were  urgently needed for the League.
 (The next morning when I arrived at nine o'clock at the Federal  Court building more than two hundred partisans were already in  the corridors.
 A great corps of reporters and photographers was on  hand.
 The stage had been set for an exciting drama.
 Judge Henry D. Clayton and Assistant District Attorneys Knox  and Content arrived at ten-thirty, apparently feeling the effects of the  publicity of the night before.
 The moment Knox moved to adjourn for a week I was on my feet  asking immediate trial, but Judge Clayton postponed the case.
 Everybody went home disappointed.)
 February 18th the Government finally entered a nolle prosequi;  Content explained there had been many assertions that the defend-  ant was the victim of persecution, and that had never been the intent  of the Federal authorities.
 "The case had been laid before the grand  jurors as impartially as possible and since they had voted an indict-  ment there was nothing that the District Attorney could do but  prosecute.
 Now, however, as it was realized that the indictment was  two years old, and that Mrs. Sanger was not a disorderly person and  did not make a practice of publishing such articles, the Government  had considered there was reason for considerable doubt."
 I9O MARGARET SANGER   Well, when an army marches up the hill and then marches down  again some good excuse must always be given.
 All my friends regarded the quashing of the Federal indictment  a great achievement.
 There was much rejoicing and congratulation,  but they acted as though they were saying, "Now settle down in  your domestic corner, take your husband back, care for your chil-  dren, behave yourself, and no more of this nonsense.
 Your duty is  to do the thing you are able to do which is mind your home and not  attempt something others can do better than you."
 But I was not content to have a Liberty Dinner and jubilate.
 I  could not consider anything more than a moral victory had been  attained.
 The law had not been tested.
 I agreed with the loyal Globe,  which staunchly maintained, "If the matter Mrs. Sanger sent  through the mails was obscene two years ago, it is still obscene."
 I  knew and felt instinctively the danger of having a privilege under  a law rather than a right.
 I could not yet afford to breathe a sigh  of relief.
 The Federal law concerned only printed literature.
 My own  pamphlet had given the impression that the printed word was the  best way to inform women, but the practical course of contracep-  tive technique I had taken in the Netherlands had shown me that  one woman was so different from another in structure that each  needed particular information applied to herself as an individual.
 Books and leaflets, therefore, should be of secondary importance.
 The public health way was through personal instruction in clinics.
 It was no longer  to be only a free speech movement, and I wanted also if possible to  present this new idea of clinics to the country..
 If I could start them,  other organizations and even hospitals might do the same.
 I had a  vision of a "chain" — thousands of them in every center of America,  staffed with specialists putting the subject on a modern scientific basis  through research.
 Many states in the West had already granted woman suffrage.
 Having achieved this type of freedom, I was sure they would re-  ceive clinics more readily, especially California which had no law     HIGH HANGS THE GAUNTLET 191   against birth control.
 The same thing would follow in the East.
 As  I told the Tribune ', "I have the word of four prominent physicians  that they will support me in the work.
 .
 .
 .
 There will be nurses  in attendance at the clinic, and doctors who will instruct women in  the things they need to know.
 All married women or women about  to be married will be assisted free and without question."
 A splendid promise — but difficult to fulfill, as events were to prove.
 Chapter Sixteen     HEAR ME FOR MY CAUSE     "Speak clearly if you speak at all.
 Carve every word before you let it fall:   OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES     ONCE Amos Pinchot asked me how long it had taken me to  prepare that first lecture I delivered on my three months' trip  across the country in 191 6.
 'About fourteen years," I answered.
 I was thinking of all the time that had passed during which ex-  periences, tragic and stirring, had come to me and were embodied  therein.
 So much depended on this speech; the women of leisure must be  made to listen, the women of wealth to give, the women of influence  to protest.
 Before starting April 1st, I tried to put myself in their  places and to see how their interests and imaginations could most ef-  fectively be excited, how the pictures which had so unceasingly be-  set me could best be brought to their minds.
 I felt certain that if I  could do this, they would do the rest.
 But the anxiety that went into the composition of the speech was  as nothing to the agonies with which I contemplated its utterance.
 My mother used to say a decent woman only had her name in the  papers three times during her life — when she was born, when she  married, and when she died.
 Although by nature I shrank from  publicity, the kind of work I had undertaken did not allow me to  shirk it — but I was frightened to death.
 Hoping that practice would  give me greater confidence, I used to climb to the roof of the Lex-  ington Avenue hotel where I was staying and recite, my voice go-   192     HEAR ME FOR MY CAUSE 1 93   ing out over the house tops and echoing timidly among the chimney  pots.
 I repeated the lecture over and over to myself before I tried it  on a small audience in New Rochelle.
 I did not dare cut myself adrift  from my notes; I had to read it, and when I had finished, did not  feel it had been very successful.
 By the time I reached Pittsburgh,  my first large city, I had memorized every period and comma, but  I was still scared that if I lost one word I would not know what  the next was.
 I closed my eyes and spoke in fear and trembling.
 The  laborers and social workers who crowded the big theater responded  so enthusiastically that I was at least sure their attention had been  held by its content.
 It was interesting to watch the pencils come out at the announce-  ment that there were specifically seven circumstances under which  birth control should be practiced.
 First, when either husband or wife had a transmissible disease,  such as epilepsy, insanity, or syphilis.
 •   Second, when the wife suffered from a temporary affection of the  lungs, heart, or kidneys, the cure of which might be retarded through  pregnancy.
 .
 Third, when parents, though normal, had subnormal children.
 Fourth, when husband or wife were adolescent.
 Early marriage,  yes, but parenthood should be postponed until after the twenty-third  year of the boy and the twenty-second of the girl.
 Fifth, when the earning capacity of the father was inadequate; no  man had the right to have ten children if he could not provide for  more than two.
 The standards of living desirable had to be con-  sidered; it was one thing if the parents were planning college edu-  cations for their offspring, and another if they wanted them simply  for industrial exploitation.
 Sixth, births should be spaced between two and three years, ac-  cording to the mother's health.
 All the foregoing were self-evident from the physiological and  economic points of view.
 But I wished to introduce a final reason  which seemed equally important to me, though it had not been taken  into account statistically.
 Seventh, every young couple should practice birth control for at     194 MARGARET SANGER   least one year after marriage and two as a rule, because this period  should be one of physical, mental, financial, and spiritual adjustment  in which they could grow together, cement the bonds of attraction,  and plan for their children.
 Like other professions, motherhood should serve its apprentice-  ship.
 It was not good sense to expect fruit from buds — yet if woman-  hood flowered from girlhood too soon it did not have a chance to  be a thing in itself.
 I offered a hypothetical case.
 Suppose two  young people started out in marriage, ignorant of its implications  and possibilities.
 The bride, utterly unprepared, returned pregnant  from the honeymoon — headaches, nausea, backache, general fatigue,  and depression.
 The romantic lover never knew that girl as a  woman ; she forever after appeared to him only as a mother.
 Under  such circumstances marriage seldom had an opportunity to become  as fine an instrument for development as it might have been.
 I wanted the world made safe for babies.
 From a government sur-  vey significant conclusions had emerged as to how many babies  lived to celebrate their first birthday.
 These were based largely on  three factors: the father's wage — as it went down, more died, and  as it rose, more survived; the spacing of births — when children  were born one year apart, more died than if the mother were al-  lowed a two- or three-year interval between pregnancies; the rela-  tive position in the family — of the number of second-born, thirty-  two out of every hundred died annually, and so on progressively  until among those who were born twelfth, the rate was sixty out  of a hundred.
 I claimed that sympathy and charity extended towards babies  were not enough, that milk stations were not enough, that maternity  centers were not enough, and that protective legislation in the form  of child labor laws was not enough.
 With all the force I could muster  I insisted that the first right of a child was to be wanted, to be  desired, to be planned for with an intensity of love that gave it its  title to being.
 It should be wanted by both parents, but especially by  the mother who was to carry it, nourish it, and perhaps influence its  life by her thoughts, her passions, her rebellions, her yearnings.
 So that all babies born could be assured sound bodies and sound  minds, I suggested in lighter vein that the Government issue pass-     HEAR ME FOR MY CAUSE 1 95   ports for them, calling the attention of the audience to the fact that  adults in this country would never think of going abroad without a  government guarantee to ensure them safe passage and preservation  against harm or ill-treatment.
 If this were necessary for grown per-  sons journeying into a foreign land, how much more important  it was to protect children who were to enter into this strange and in-  secure new world.
 I reminded them also that no one would consider embarking in the  medical or legal profession without due preparation.
 Even cooks or  laundresses scarcely applied for positions without experience prov-  ing they were qualified to undertake their tasks.
 But anyone, no  matter how ignorant, how diseased mentally or physically, how  lacking in all knowledge of children, seemed to consider he or she  had the right to become a parent.
 In the same tone I proposed a bureau of application for the un-  born.
 I pictured a married couple coming here for a baby as though  for a chambermaid, chauffeur, or gardener.
 The unborn child took  a look at his prospective parents and propounded a few questions  such as any employee has the right to ask of his employer.
 To his father the unborn child said, "Do you happen to have a  health certificate?"
 And to the mother, "How are your nerves?
 What do you know  about babies?
 What kind of a table do you set?"
 And to both of them, "What are your plans for bringing me up ?
 Am I to spend my childhood days in factories or mills, or am I to  have the opportunities offered by an intelligent, healthy, family life ?
 I am unusually gifted," the baby might add.
 "Do you know how  to develop my talents?
 What sort of society have you made for the  fullest expression of my genius?"
 All babies came back to the practical question, "How many chil-  dren have you already?"
 "Eight."
 "How much are you earning?"
 "Ten dollars a week."
 "And living in two rooms, you say?
 No, thank you.
 Next, please."
 I was trying to make people think in order that they might act.
 My part was to give them the facts and then, when they asked what     196 MARGARET SANGER   they should do about them, suggest concrete programs for leagues  and clinics.
 Many women had far more executive and administra-  tive experience than I, and I still expected them to carry on where  I left off so that I might be free to return to Europe.
 My hopes seemed well-founded when many of the Pittsburgh  audience waited afterward to request help in organizing themselves.
 Thus the first state birth control league was formed.
 This and all  subsequent ones I referred to Mrs. Dennett's National Birth Con-  trol League to be under its future direction.,   !
 That meeting had been held under the sponsorship of Mrs. Enoch  Raugh, a philanthropist of great courage.
 In the early days almost  everywhere I went'the subject of birth control was one likely to make  conspicuous those who identified themselves with it.
 Average well-  to-do persons hesitated except for the Jewish leaders in civic affairs,  who, as soon as they were personally convinced, showed no reluctance  in aligning themselves publicly:.
 Not so did Chicago respond.
 Some members of the powerful  Women's City Club had privately asked me to speak, but when the  matter was brought up before their board, the unofficial invitation  was officially canceled.
 Here again were conservatives enjoying the  benefits of birth control for themselves but unwilling to endorse  it for the less fortunate of their sex.
 When they did not listen, I  tried to reach the women of the stockyards directly.
 So many hundreds of letters had come to me — not only in Eng-  lish, but also in Hungarian, Bohemian, Polish, and Yiddish — clam-  oring for information, that I had every reason to suppose what I  had to say was going to be welcome on Halsted Street.
 I was in-  credulous when I met an unforeseen resistance.
 Hull House and similar settlements had been established to help  the poor to help themselves.
 But I found that although social  agencies had originally striven to win confidence by opening milk  stations and day nurseries, this aim had been somewhat obscured  in the interests of sheer efficiency.
 Many welfare workers had come  to treat individuals merely as cases to be cataloged, arrogantly pro-  claiming they knew "what was best for the poor"; a type had de-  veloped, and those who belonged to it were lacking in human sym-  pathy.
 Instead they expanded their own egos through domination.
 HEAR ME FOR MY CAUSE 1 97   Their desire to build up prestige and secure a position of importance  in the community had formed a civic barrier, a wall, in fact, around  the stockyards district, preventing any new concepts, people, or or-  ganizations from coming in without official permission.
 The stock-  yards women were literally imprisoned in their homes from ad-  vanced ideas unless they went out into other sections of the city.
 Because this ridiculous situation had arisen in Chicago, no hall  could be had in the immediate neighborhood.
 , I could have held no  meeting there had it not been for Fania Mindell, one of the many  idealists of that time who threw themselves into the fight for the  oppressed as an aftermath of their own sufferings and repressions  in Russia.
 ,She had a devoted and self-sacrificing nature which made  her work, slave, toil for the love of doing it.
 She made all the ar-  rangements, producing an audience of fifteen hundred from the  labor and stockyards environs.
 i These first lectures in Chicago and elsewhere attracted women in  swarms, paying their twenty-five cents to fill the auditoriums; I  remember that one offered her wedding ring as the price of admis-  sion, to be redeemed on pay day.
 They brought their children, and  more than once I had to lift my voice above the persistent cooing  and gurgling of a front-row baby.
 There was a natural understand-  ing between infants.
 If one were given a bottle, another began to  cry.
 A third in the backjoined the chorus, or a small boy on the side  aisle whispered shrilly, "I wantta go home!"
 I just ached to see those  many babies, because I knew what their mothers had come for —  definite help to stop having more — and it could not be given them.
 Often at these meetings I saw some woman sitting down near  the platform holding a bunch of wild flowers, daisies, Queen Anne's  lace, or butter-and-eggs, waiting to present me with the little bouquet,  to tell me that since she had received my pamphlet, she had "kept out  of trouble."
 No matter how phrased, the gratitude was genuine.
 Over and over again someone popped up in front of me, and ex-  tended a hand, "I used to subscribe to the Woman Rebel.
 I got all  your pamphlets from England."
 When I asked, "What's your name?"
 with the answer, like a flash,  came the number of children and the locality, and the story sent me  years earlier.
 And, "Didn't you live in Des Moines?"
 I continued.
 I98 MARGARET SANGER   Seldom was it the wrong place.
 In this way I came across dozens  of "friends" who had been among the original two thousand.
 I was advised by Dr. Mabel Ullrich of Minneapolis not to go  there because the Twin Cities were the most conservative in Amer-  ica.
 "You won't get six people," she prophesied.
 "Do you think I'll get six?"
 "Perhaps."
 /"Then I'll go."
 nI was prepared to speak wherever it was possible, regardless of  attendance.
 Six people, properly convinced, usually made sixty peo-  ple think before very long.
 In spite of Dr. Ullrich's warning, hun-  dreds of chairs had to be brought in to the Minneapolis Public Li-  brary to take care of the overflow.
 People were frequently surprised at the size of my audiences.
 I  should have been surprised had it been the other way about, al-  though I did not like too many present because the subject was too  intimate for great numbers in large halls.
 All came because birth  control touched their lives deeply and vitally ; they listened so earnestly,  so intently that the very atmosphere was hushed and unnaturally  quiet.
 Here in Minneapolis arrived a telegram from Frederick A.  Blossom, Ph.D., manager of the Associated Charities of Cleveland,  whom I had met there.
 Would I speak at the National Social Work-  ers' Conference then being held in Indianapolis?
 He could not get  me placed on the program, but the two subjects that were currently  arousing considerable interest were the prison reforms instituted  by Thomas Mott Osborne at Sing Sing, and birth control.
 He  believed it was worth my while to come.
 Since I had nearly a week before my scheduled meeting in St.  Louis, the time fitted in very nicely and I seized the occasion.
 I did  not expect definite action, but I did yearn to arouse dissatisfaction  over smoothing off the top, to say to these social workers plodding  along in their organizations that I thought their accomplishments  were temporary, and that charity was only a feather duster flicking  from the surface particles which merely settled somewhere else.
 They could never attain their ideal of eliminating the problems of     HEAR ME FOR MY CAUSE 1 99   the masses until the breeding of the unending stream of unwanted  babies was stopped.
 Blossom, polished, educated, and clever, had a charming and  disarming personality, and an ability far above the average.
 Part  of his work had been to cultivate the rich, and in this he had been  eminently success fut because he was so suave, never waving a red  flag in front of anybody's nose as I did; my flaming Feminism  speeches had scared some of my supporters out of their wits.
 This master manager knew exactly what to do and how to go  about it.
 Notices were posted throughout the hotel and left in every  delegate's mail box, announcing the meeting for four in the after-  noon, the only hour when we could have the big amphitheater.
 Al-  though round-table discussions were going on at the same time, it  was jammed to the doors; people were sitting on the platform and  on window sills and radiators.
 I was almost startled that so many of those from whom I hoped  for co-operation should turn out in such numbers.
 Walter Lippmann  said, "This will kick the football of birth control straight across  to the Pacific."
 And, indeed, the social agents, like the plumed  darts of a seeded dandelion puffed into the air, scattered to every  quarter of the country; thereafter, to the West and back again, I  heard echoes of the meeting.
 Women with the inevitable babies kept calling  on me in hotels and so did men setting out to their jobs early in  the morning, carrying their lunch boxes.
 I was so mentally weary  with strain that it seemed I must get away from humanity for a  little while if I were to retain my sanity.
 Worst of all was the  ever-present loneliness and grief — the apparition of Peggy who  wanted me to recognize she had gone and was no longer here.
 I slipped into St. Louis two days ahead so that I could be by  myself, registering at the Hotel Jefferson and asking not to be dis-  turbed.
 But the telephone rang before I even had my suitcase un-  packed; a reporter had seen my name at the desk and requested an  interview.
 I replied I could not give it ; I was not in St. Louis so far  as he was concerned.
 Saying to myself, "Good, I've escaped that,"     200 MARGARET SANGER   I went to bed.
 But next morning a ribbon on the front page of his  paper announced I was "hiding" in the city.
 In my ignorance I had  violated the etiquette observed by welcoming committees, and mine  was highly indignant.
 I had little rest.
 Among the group of backers was Robert Minor, an old friend,  formerly an outstanding cartoonist on the New York World, who  had been dropped because he had refused to draw the kind of pic-  tures about Germany his employers wanted.
 It had been arranged  that I was to have the Victoria Theater Sunday night, which had  already been paid for in advance so that the meeting could be free.
 However, at a quarter to eight when we arrived, the building was  in total darkness and the doors were locked.
 The proprietor's office  was closed; he was not at home; there was no means of finding  out anything.
 Actually, he had temporarily effaced himself because  he did not wish to admit that he had been threatened with a Catholic  boycott of his theater, and had been promised protection against a  possible suit for breach of contract.
 At least two thousand people had gathered and were filling the  air with catcalls, hisses, hurrahs, cries of "the Catholics run the  town!
 Break in the door!"
 Minor urged me to stand up in the car  and give my speech, but without its proper setting I was lost; here  was a type of battle needing an experienced campaigner.
 Although I  did not feel adequate, I began, but my voice could not surmount  the uproar.
 I was barely under way when a police sergeant reached up and  seized my arm.
 "Here now, you'll have to come down.
 You can't  talk here."
 "Speech !
 Speech !"
 yelled the crowd.
 "Go on."
 But the owner of the car, to my great relief, started his engine.
 I sat back in the seat with a thump and off we went.
 The incident had repercussions.
 The Men's City Club, regarding  the event as a blot on the fair name of the town, asked me to speak  at their luncheon the next day, and I promised to wait over.
 Al-  though forty Catholics then resigned in a body, St. Louis would not  be coerced, and more than a hundred new members joined immedi-  ately.
 William Marion Reedy, owner and publisher of the famous     HEAR ME FOR MY CAUSE 201   Reedy 's Mirror, had been at the closed theater.
 He printed a car-  toon showing the Capitol of the United States with a papal crown  on it, stated editorially that the Pope was now dictating to America  what it should hear and think, and emphasized the consequent dan-  gers to the country if any religious group were allowed such domina-  tion.
 "No idea let loose in the world has ever been suppressed.
 Ideas  cannot be jailed in oubliettes/' was his peroration.
 After I had left the Middle West and reached the Rocky Moun-  tains the atmosphere changed.
 I was struck even by the attitude of  the bellboys and waiters at the Brown Palace Hotel in Denver.
 In  New York you were served by trained foreign men and boys —  Italian and French.
 Here they were American-born, blue-eyed, fair-  complexioned, strong- jawed.
 Without bowing or obsequiousness  they brought your food and carried your bags as if doing you a  favor.
 You hesitated to give them a tip, though, as a matter of fact,  they never refused it.
 I loved Denver itself.
 It seemed to me the women there were the  most beautiful I had seen — fresh, charming, alive.
 They had long had  the vote and used it effectively.
 Because they believed in Judge Ben  Lindsey's juvenile court, they had kept him in office in spite of  the concerted antagonism of picturesque but corrupt politicians.
 Although Judge Lindsey had bitter enemies in exalted places, he  had loyal friends also.
 When Theodore Roosevelt had stopped there  in 1 91 2 on his Western Swing, the Judge was facing opposition.
 The city fathers did not want to include him as a substantial citizen  on their platform committee of welcome.
 Roosevelt peered vainly  about among all these bankers and business men.
 "Where's Ben  Lindsey?"
 he asked.
 "We don't talk about him around here."
 "Don't we?
 Well, he's a friend of mine.
 I shan't say a word until  Ben Lindsey comes and sits on this platform beside me."
 Nor would he speak until Lindsey arrived ; everybody had to wait.
 It was a high point for me at this time, so soon after my own  court appearance, to have Judge Lindsey preside at my meeting.
 For-  merly my listeners, with the exception of Indianapolis, had been  chiefly of the working class.
 Here they were wives of doctors, law-  yers, petty officials, members of clubs.
 202 MARGARET SANGER   I was more than delighted to have an audience which had the  power to change public opinion.
 The "submerged tenth" had no need  of theories nor the proof of the advantages of family limitation;  they were the proof — the living example of the need.
 It was vitally  important to have reflective hearers who not only themselves used  contraceptives, but who advanced thought through literature, dis-  cussions, and papers.
 To them I was telling the story of those mil-  lions who could not come, and trying to relate it as I knew it to be  true.
 Stimulating them offered the best possibility of getting some-  thing done.
 Judge Lindsey invited me to sit on the bench with him the next  morning, and I watched enthralled the way he handled his cases.
 The familiar court method was punishment, and the more punish-  ment the better.
 But he operated on the new psychology.
 For in-  stance, he attempted to inculcate a sense of responsibility in one boy  who had disobeyed his mother and run away from school, by show-  ing him his indebtedness to her, how he should be helping rather than  causing her grief.
 The same tactics were employed in the case of Joseph, charged  with assault on his wife, Nelly, who stood silently in the back-  ground, shawl over her head.
 Lindsey read the evidence, then said,  "Joseph, come over here."
 'Joseph stepped nearer, appearing somewhat guilty, as men of his  status usually did when they came into court.
 "What's this I hear about you?
 Why did you strike Nelly?"
 "She made me mad," Joseph mumbled.
 "Joseph, turn your head and look at your wife.
 Look at her!
 Look!
 — thin, pale, weak, and you a big strong man striking that  delicate little woman.
 Aren't you ashamed of yourself to beat Nelly?
 You who promised to love, honor, and protect her?"
 The reprimanding lasted fully two minutes.
 Finally tears began  to spring from Nelly's eyes and to run down her face.
 She moved  forward, took Joseph by the hand, and said, "Oh, he's not so bad,  Judge."
 Joseph then embraced her.
 Instead of punishing him, which  would in effect have also been punishing Nelly, Judge Lindsey put  him on parole to report back in two months' time, and husband and  wife went out arm in arm.
 HEAR ME FOR MY CAUSE 203   One of the hardest things for a judge in a lower court to combat  is the prejudice of the police against those who already have records.
 Judge Lindsey, when a case came up before him, never took the  word of the ward heelers, but had his own secretary, employed and  paid by him, go to the home and investigate, and he held the case  until this had been done.
 But I thought then that either Judge Lind-  sey was heading straight for trouble, or Denver had a kingdom of  its own where freedom reigned.
 A similar attitude of liberality prevailed on the far side of the  Rockies.
 In many places where I had previously spoken, policemen  had been stationed at the doors.
 Occasionally they had even come  to the hotel to read my speech, as at St. Louis and Indianapolis.
 But  in Los Angeles officials of all the city, even the representatives of  the women's police division, met me at the station or called on me  in a friendly way.
 I was still as terrified of speaking as in the beginning; I used to  wake up early in the morning, sometimes before it was light, and  feel a ghastly depression coming over me.
 I realized it was the im-  pending lecture which was so affecting me, and I waited in trepida-  tion for the hour.
 My physical illness did not grow better until I  was on my feet and well into my subject.
 Though this was my first visit to the West, I had no time for  scenery.
 Whenever possible I traveled by night and arrived during  the day, and by this stage of my trip I was seemingly always tired.
 The dead grind went on and on, an endless succession of getting off  trains, introductions, talking to committees, pouring yourself out —  and nothing happening.
 Physically and psychically it was one of the  lowest periods of my life.
 Someone in San Francisco did a lovely thing for me.
 I never  knew who she was, but at the end of one meeting she picked me up  in her car and swept me away into a forest of huge, tall trees where  the sun broke through.
 There she left me for fifteen minutes in the  midst of a cathedral of great evergreens with the sky overhead  and myself alone.
 I have never forgotten the peace and quiet.
 I found the West Coast a lively place.
 Ideas were being con-  stantly thrashed out.
 Every discourse had a challenging reception.
 Emma Goldman had been there year after year and had stirred peo-     204 MARGARET SANGER   pie to dare express themselves.
 All sorts of individuals catechized  you, and if you were not well grounded in your subject you were  quickly made aware of your ignorance.
 The Wobblies spent hours  in libraries, not only keeping warm, but trying to find points on  which to attack the next lecturer who should come to town.
 Often  those most eager were considered cranks — on diet, free trade, single  tax, and free silver — so familiar that their rising was hailed with  groans.
 I never minded having questions asked, though everything  I knew was questioned.
 It was as well for me that, in addition to  my Malthus, I knew my Schopenhauer and Nietzsche, my Henry  George, Marx, and Kropotkin.
 It seems to me that today the tone  of audiences has deteriorated; queries rarely have the same intel-  lectual grasp behind them.
 .
 My welcome at Portland was delightful.
 The sixty-year-old poet,  C. E. S. Wood, dapper and gracious, made a practice of greet-  ing personally women speakers, dedicating poems to them on their  arrival, and sending bowers of flowers to their hotel rooms.
 The  City of Roses did much to entertain its visitors.
 Here I was invited by a church to address its congregation fol-  lowing the evening service.
 I had not been very well in the after-  noon, but I promised over the telephone to be there if I could.
 I  was late and the meeting had already begun.
 As I slipped in at the  rear I heard the chairman refer to me as a Joan of Arc.
 Entirely  too many Joans of Arc were floating about in those days.
 Not wish-  ing to be a disappointment I turned right around and walked back  to the hotel.
 Since no one had ever seen me, both my entrance and  exit went unremarked.
 I admired robust, vital women; they appeared so efficient, and I  regretted the fact that I did not give the same impression.
 I felt  that way, but could not help resembling, as someone phrased it, "a  hungry flower drooping in the rain."
 Sanger?"
 For a brief while I tried to make  myself seem more competent-looking by wearing severe suits, but  this phase did not last ; for one thing, effective simplicity cost money  and I did not have enough to be really well-tailored.
 However, the     HEAR ME FOR MY CAUSE 205   anonymity due to my appearance was, on the whole, fortunate.
 I  was always able to go along any street, into any restaurant or shop,  and seldom be identified, and this made it possible for me to main-  tain a relatively private life.
 A dinner was given at Portland; the chairman, who had seen  Susan B. Anthony and many other women with causes come and  go, made a short speech of introduction.
 I rarely remember what  people say on such occasions, but one of her statements has remained  in my mind.
 "I would like to see Margaret Sanger again after ten  years.
 Most movements either break you or develop the 'public  figure' type of face which has become hard and set through long  and furious battling.
 But her cause is different from any other I  have ever known.
 I should like to see how she comes out of it."
 I have thought of this many times — how, if the cause is not great  enough to lift you outside yourself, you can be driven to the point  of bitterness by public apathy and, within your own circle, by the  petty prides and jealousies of little egos which clamor for attention  and approbation.
 One of the first persons I met in the city was Dr. Marie Equi, of  Italian ancestry and Latin fire.
 Definitely, she was an individualist  and a rugged one.
 Her strong, large body could stand miles and  miles on horseback night or day.
 She had been brought up in the  pioneer era when medical work was genuine service.
 If cowboys or  Indians were in fights, difficulties, jail, Dr. Equi was always on  hand to speak a good word for them.
 [ It was in Portland that I realized Family Limitation, which had  been crudely and hurriedly written in 1914, needed revising.
 The  working women to whom it was addressed needed the facts.
 It had  served its purpose in its unpolished state, but the time had now come  to reach the middle classes, for whom it required a slightly more pro-  fessional tone.
 Dr. Equi gave me genuine assistance in this matter.
 The wider the distribution of the pamphlet, the happier I was.
 Since it had not been copyrighted, anybody who wanted to could  reprint as many as he wished, and I.W.W.
 lumberjacks, for ex-  ample, transients without families who moved to California for the  crop harvesting in the summer, often thus provided themselves with  a little extra money as they journeyed from place to place.
 When     206 MARGARET SANGER   they unrolled the blankets draped over their shoulders out dropped  a half-dozen or so pamphlets.
 An automobile mechanic of Portland had made one of these re-  prints and asked me whether he could sell it at my next meeting.
 I myself had never distributed Family Limitation publicly, but if  any local people wanted to do so, I had no objection.
 Accordingly the  mechanic and two of his friends sold copies and were arrested.
 Their  trial was postponed so that I could deliver my proposed lectures  in Seattle and Spokane.
 When these were over I came back to serve as a witness, and at  another meeting held the night preceding the trial four more of  us were arrested, Dr. Equi, two Englishwomen, and myself.
 I was  tremendously gratified by seeing women for the first time come out  openly with courage ; over a hundred followed us through the streets  to the jail asking to be "let in too.
 We also have broken the law."
 The city jail was nice and clean and warm.
 The girls, who were  not locked in cells, scampered around talking over their troubles and  complaints with Dr. Equi, and receiving condolence and wholesome  advice in return.
 The seven of us were tried together the next day.
 Two lawyers  took upon themselves the responsibility of defending us, and they  were splendid.
 We were all found guilty.
 The men were fined ten  dollars, which the Judge said they need not pay ; the women were not  fined at all.
 The papers made a great to-do about the affair but it was not a  type of /publicity of my choosing and did little to bring the goal  nearer.
 \The year 191 6 was filled with such turmoil, some of it use-  ful, some not.
 , The ferment was working violently.
 Everybody be-  gan starting things here and there.
 Many radicals, some of whom  I did not even know, were distributing leaflets, getting themselves  arrested and jailed.
 Meetings were being held in New York on street  corners, at Union Square, Madison Square.
 You had to keep a steady head, to be about your business, to make  careful decisions, to waste the least possible time on trivialities; it  was always a problem to prevent emotional scatter-brains from dis-  turbing the clear flow of the stream.
 The public, quite naturally,     HEAR ME FOR MY CAUSE 207   could not be expected to distinguish between purposeful activities  and any others carried on in the name of the movement.
 Emma Goldman and her campaign manager, Ben Reitman, be-  latedly advocated birth control, not to further it but strategically to  utilize in their own program of anarchism the publicity value it  had achieved.
 Earlier she had made me feel she considered it unim-  portant in the class struggle.
 Suddenly, when in 1916 it had demon-  strated the fact that it was important, she delivered a lecture on the  subject, was arrested, and sentenced to ten days.
 Ben Reitman, who used to go up and down the aisles at meetings  shouting out Emma "Goldman's Mother Earth in a voice that never  needed a megaphone, was also arrested when the police found on  the table of her lecture hall in Rochester several books on birth  control.
 One of these was by Dr. Robinson, who had hastily pub-  lished a volume purporting to give contraceptive information.
 The  unwary purchaser discovered when he came to the section supposed  to give him the facts for which he had paid his money that the pages  were blank and empty.
 ( Of far greater interest to me was the decision of Jessie Ashley,  Ida Rauh, who was Max Eastman's wife, and Bolton Hall, a leader  in the single tax movement, to make test cases on the grounds that  the denial of contraceptive information to women whose health  might be endangered by pregnancy was unconstitutional since the  Constitution guaranteed each individual the right to liberty.)
 These  three had themselves arrested on birth control charges.
 They were  all three convicted and given a choice of fines or terms in prison.
 They paid the former, announcing that they would appeal, but, most  unfortunately, as it turned out later, they did not carry through their  intentions.
 A sympathetic thing if not a wise one was being done by a young  man in Boston named Van Kleek Allison, who started handing out  leaflets to workers as they emerged from factories.
 Early in the  summer he gave one to a police decoy, was arrested and sentenced  to three years.
 Dear old Boston, the home of the Puritan, rose in  all its strength and held a huge meeting of protest on his behalf.
 This was the occasion of my first heckling.
 A Jewish convert to     208 MARGARET SANGER   Catholicism, named Goldstein, began belligerently to fling questions  at me.
 It was not in the sense of trying to find out the answers,  but as though he had them wrapped up in his own pocket and were  merely trying to trap me, and he, in turn, had his answers ready  for mine.
 But after my Western experiences I was not unprepared  and was aided, furthermore, by other members of the audience who  spoke in my defense when he became almost insulting.
 I never made light of questioners and never judged any question  too trivial or unworthy of an honest response.
 I believed that for  each person who had the courage to ask there must be at least  twenty-five who would like to know, and I have never assumed any-  one was seeking to trick me into giving illegal information, even  though his inquiry might appear as intended to confuse me or be  vindictively thrust at me.
 I usually replied, "That's an interesting  point.
 I'm glad you raised it," and then proceeded to discuss it as  best I could.
 Another heckling in Albany resulted in a joyous reunion.
 Some-  body in the audience insisted my work was unnecessary.
 I would  ordinarily have paid no attention, not considering the statement at  all personal.
 But there arose a lady, wearing a high lace collar  propped up with whalebones, and a hat that sat flat on her head, a  ghost out of my school-girl days.
 "I am acquainted with Margaret  Sanger," she stated.
 "I have slept with her, I have lived with her, I  have worked with her, I have delivered her, and I have named my  baby for her."
 Here was dear old Amelia come to champion me.
 Her  type of dress had remained the same as fifteen years before, but so  had her loyalty and wit.
 The lecture over, we went back together to  her home in Schenectady; she hauled out from the attic scrapbooks  and photographs and snapshots taken at Claverack, and we sat on  the floor and rocked with laughter until three in the morning.
 When I returned to New York after my long trip I took a studio  apartment in what seemed like a bit of old Chelsea on Fourteenth  Street way over between Seventh and Eighth Avenues.
 Gertrude  Boyle, the sculptress, had the one below me, and my sister Ethel moved  in above.
 Occasionally father came down from Cape Cod to spend  some time with us.
 Although it was never quite warm enough, because it lacked cen-     HEAR ME FOR MY CAUSE 209   tral heating, it hardened me physically, and the open fireplaces,  stoked incessantly by expansive and voluble Vito Silecchia, the Ital-  ian coal vendor, kept the air fresh and clean.
 The lovely high ceil-  ings, the tall windows, and the broad doors flung wide between the  rooms, gave an atmosphere of space, and the marvelous carved wood-  work was a joy.
 The windows in the rear were draped with light  yellow curtains, reflecting an illusory glow of sunshine.
 Above one  of these grew a Japanese wistaria vine ; whenever I looked up I saw  this little bit of spring.
 Chapter Seventeen     FAITH I HAVE BEEN A TRUANT IN THE LAW     "// a woman grows weary and at last dies from childbearing, it  matters not.
 Let her only die from bearing; she is there to do it."
 MARTIN LUTHER     IN the fall of 191 6 whoever walked along the corridor of the top  floor of 104 Fifth Avenue could have seen the words "Birth  Control" printed on the door leading to an office equipped in  business-like, efficient manner with files and card catalogs.
 Pre-  siding over it was Fred Blossom, the perfect representative.
 He had  told me at Cleveland he was tired of ameliorative charity and, want-  ing to do something more significant, had offered six months  for this work.
 Now indefatigably he wrote, spoke, made friends,  and, most important, raised money.
 His meals were limited to an  apple for luncheon and a sandwich for dinner; he seldom left the  office until midnight.
 Like a vacuum cleaner Blossom sucked in volunteers from near  and far to help with the boxes and trunks of letters which had come  to me from all over the country — one thousand from St. Louis alone.
 As long as I had had no stenographic aid I had been able only to  open and read them and put them sadly away.
 At last with fifteen  or twenty assistants the task began of sorting these out and answer-  ing them.
 We had only one paid stenographer — little Anna Lifshiz, who  soon became far more a co-worker than a secretary.
 If we had no  money in the bank she waited for her salary until we did.
 When I met   210     FAITH I HAVE BEEN A TRUANT IN THE LAW 211   Anna's mother, who graced her hospitable home with an old world  dignity, I realized that her daughter's fine character had been directly-  inherited.
 Every Christmas I used to receive a present of wine and  cakes of Mrs. Lifshiz' own make, and Anna always said when she  brought them, "My mother pr,ays for your health, your happiness,  and that you will keep well."
 ' ' *   I had been encouraged by the interest aroused during my Western  trip, but was by no means satisfied.
 The practical idea of giving  contraceptive information in clinics set up for that purpose had  seemed to meet general approval everywhere.
 Boston at this time  appeared a possible place to begin.
 Though Allison had to serve  sixty days in the House of Correction at Deer Island, the sum total  of his sensational trial had been good.
 Before his arrest there had  been no league in Massachusetts, and with his arrest had come  publicity, friends, workers, meetings, letters, interviews, all of wide-  spread educational value.
 More important than the enthusiasm which had been stirred up,  the best legal authorities in Boston had decided that contraceptive  information could be given verbally by doctors as long as it was not  advertised.
 The interpretation to be put on advertising held up the  actual opening of a clinic.
 The old spirit was there to wage battle  but it was a question of getting leadership, and this did not come  about; no women doctors were willing to take the risk.
 If the citi-  zens of Massachusetts had then seized the opportunity to broaden  their laws, writers and speakers might now have more freedom in  expressing themselves.
 Blossom soon organized the New York State Birth Control  League to change the state law.
 Beyond introducing a bill it made  little headway and soon expired.
 It was just one of those many  groups that met and talked and talked and did nothing effective.
 The legislative approach seemed to me a slow and tortuous method  of making clinics legal; we stood a better and quicker chance by  securing a favorable judicial interpretation through challenging the  law directly.
 I decided to open a clinic in New York City, a far more  difficult proceeding than in Boston., Section 1142 of the New York  statutes was definite: No one could give contraceptive information  to anyone for any reason.
 On the other hand, Section 1145 dis-     212 MARGARET SANGER   tinctly stated that physicians could give prescriptions to prevent con-  ception for the cure or prevention of disease.
 Two attorneys and  several doctors assured me this exception referred only to venereal  disease.
 In that case, the intent was to protect the man, which could  incidentally promote immorality and permit promiscuity.
 I was deal-  ing with marriage.
 I wanted the interpretation to be broadened into  the intent to protect women from ill health as the result of excessive  childbearing and, equally important, to have the right to control their  own destinies.
 To change this interpretation it was necessary to have a test case.
 This, in turn, required my keeping strictly to the letter of the y law;  that is, having physicians who would give only verbal information  for the prevention of disease.
 But the women doctors who had pre-  viously promised to do this now refused.
 I wrote, telephoned, asked  friends to ask other friends to help find someone.
 None was will-  ing to enter the cause, fearful of jeopardizing her private practice  and of running the risk of being censured by her profession; she  might even lose her license.
 They had before them the example of Dr. Mary Halton who of  all the women I have known has perhaps the best understanding of  the hidden secrets of the heart.
 She has never reached her deserts,  and doubtless never will have the honors due her, though she has an  unknown audience who love her not only because she has done some-  thing directly for them but because they have heard of what she  has done for others.
 She has what to my mind is the attitude of the  real physician; that it is not enough merely to cure ailments — sur-  roundings, heartaches, privations must also be given attention.
 Her  office is a human welfare clinic to which women of all classes, ages,  nationalities go for advice, occasionally without even return car-  fare.
 The unmarried ones, who in asking help from doctors or clinics  seldom admit they are unmarried, trust so deeply in Dr. Mary that  they unburden themselves freely.
 Dr. Mary had previously been on the staff of the Grosvenor Hos-  pital and had held her evening clinic there.
 To one of her patients  who had been operated on for glandular tuberculosis she had pre-  scribed a cervical pessary.
 When a few evenings later the woman     FAITH I HAVE BEEN A TRUANT IN THE LAW 213   had come back to be refitted, Dr. Mary had been out and her substi-  tute, horrified and shocked, had presented the matter to the board.
 Dr. Mary had been called before them.
 She had told them in no un-  certain terms that the giving of contraceptive information to patients  in need of it was part of her work and that she had a right under  the law to do so.
 The board had disagreed with her and asked for her resignation.
 I did not wish to complicate the quesion of testing the law by  having a nurse give information, because a nurse did not come un-  der the Section 1145 exception.
 But since I could find no doctor I  had to do without.
 Ethel, a registered nurse, had a readiness to  share in helping the movement, though she did not belong to it in  the same sense as I.
 Then, as long as I had to violate the law any-  how, I concluded I might as well violate it on a grand scale by in-  cluding poverty as a reason for giving contraceptive information.
 I  did not see why the hardships and worries of a working man's wife  might not be just as detrimental as any disease.
 I wanted a legal  opinion on this if possible.
 My next problems were where the money was to come from and  where the clinic was to be.
 Ever since I had announced that I was  going to open one within a few months I had been buried under an  avalanche of queries as to the place, which for a time I could not  answer.
 The selection of a suitable locality was of the greatest im-  portance.
 I tramped through the streets of the Bronx, Brooklyn,  the lower sides of Manhattan, East and West.
 I scrutinized the  Board of Health vital statistics of all the boroughs — births and in-  fant and maternal mortality in relation to low wages, and also the  number of philanthropic institutions in the vicinity.
 The two questions — where and how — were settled on one and the  same day.
 That afternoon five women from the Brownsville Section of  Brooklyn crowded into my room seeking the "secret" of birth con-  trol.
 Each had four children or more, who had been left with neigh-  bors.
 One had just recovered from an abortion which had nearly  killed her.
 "Another will take me off.
 Then what will become of my  family?"
 214 MARGARET SANGER   They rocked back and forth as they related their afflictions, told  so simply, each scarcely able to let her friend finish before she took  up the narration of her own sufferings — the high cost of food, her  husband's meager income when he worked at all, her helplessness in  the struggle to make ends meet, whining, sickly children, the con-  stant worry of another baby — and always hanging over her night  and day, year after year, was fear.
 All cried what a blessing and godsend a clinic would be in their  neighborhood.
 They talked an hour and when they had finished, it seemed as  though I myself had been through their tragedies.
 I was reminded  of the story of a Spaniard who had become so desperate over the  injustice meted out to innocent prisoners that he had taken a re-  volver into the street and fired it at the first person he met; killing  was his only way of expressing indignation.
 I felt like doing the  same thing.
 I decided then and there that the clinic should open at Browns-  ville, and I would look for a site the next day.
 How to finance it I  did not know, but that did not matter.
 Then suddenly the telephone rang and I heard a feminine voice  saying she had just come from the West Coast bringing from Kate  Crane Gartz, whom I had met in Los Angeles, a check for fifty dollars  to do with as I wished.
 I knew what I should do with it ; pay the first  month's rent.
 I visualized two rooms on the ground floor, one for  waiting and one for consultation, and a place outside to leave the  baby carriages.
 Fania Mindell had left Chicago to assist me in New York.
 It was  a terribly rainy day in early October that we plodded through the  dreary streets of Brownsville to find the most suitable spot at the  cheapest possible terms.
 We stopped in one of the milk stations to  inquire about vacant stores.
 "Don't come over here," was the reply.
 Many social organizations were being established to meet the de-  mands of poverty and sickness, and we asked of them all, only to  receive the same response — "We don't want any trouble.
 Keep out  of this district."
 The mildest comment was, "It's a good idea, but  we can't help you."
 Although they agreed the mothers of the com-  munity should limit their families, they seemed terrified at the pros-*     FAITH I HAVE BEEN A TRUANT IN THE LAW 21 5   pect of a birth control clinic.
 It sounded also as if they were afraid  we would do away with" social problems and they would lose their  jobs.
 Brownsville was not unique ; Brooklyn was and still is dotted with  such dismal villages, and even Queens with its pretensions to a  higher standard has its share.
 But Brownsville was particularly  dingy and squalid.
 Block after block, street after street, as far as  we could see in every direction stretched the same endless lines of  cramped, unpainted houses that crouched together as though for  warmth, bursting with excess of wretched humanity.
 The inhabitants were mostly Jews and Italians, some who had  come to this country as children, some of the second generation.
 I  preferred a Jewish landlord, and Mr. Rabinowitz was the answer.
 He was willing to let us have Number 46 Amboy Street at fifty  dollars a month, a reduction from the regular rent because he real-  ized what we were trying to do.
 Here in this Jewish community I  need have no misgivings over breaking of windows or hurling of  epithets, but I was scarcely prepared for the friendliness offered  from that day on.
 I sent a letter to the District Attorney of Brooklyn, saying I ex-  pected to dispense contraceptive information from this address.
 Without waiting for the reply, which never came, we began the  fun of fixing up our little clinic.
 We had to keep furnishing expenses  inside the budget, but Fania knew Yiddish and also how to bargain.
 We bought chairs, desks, floor coverings, curtains, a stove.
 If I were  to leave no loophole in testing the law, we could only give the prin-  ciples of contraception, show a cervical pessary to the women, ex-  plain that if they had had two children they should have one size  and if more a larger one.
 This was not at all ideal, but I had no other  recourse at the time.
 However, we might be able to get a doctor any  day and, consequently, we added an examination table to our equip-  ment.
 Mr. Rabinowitz spent hours adding touches here and there to  make the two shiny and spotless rooms even more snow-white.
 "More hospital looking," he said.
 Meanwhile we had printed about five thousand notices in English,  Italian, and Yiddish :     2l6 MARGARET SANGER   MOTHERS!
 Can you afford to have a large family?
 Do you want any more children?
 If not, why do you have them?
 DO NOT KILL, DO NOT TAKE LIFE, BUT PREVENT   Safe, Harmless Information can be obtained of trained Nurses at   46 AMBOY STREET   NEAR PITKIN AVE.— BROOKLYN.
 Tell Your Friends and Neighbors.
 All Mothers Welcome   A registration fee of 10 cents entitles any mother to this information.
 These we poked into letter boxes, house after house, day after  day, upstairs, downstairs, all over the place, viewing sadly the un-  kempt children who swarmed in the alleyways and over the fire es-  capes of the condemned tenements and played on the rubbish heaps  in the vacant lots.
 Seldom did we see a woman who was not carry-  ing or wheeling a baby.
 We stopped to talk to each and gave her a  supply of leaflets to hand on to her neighbors.
 When we passed by  a drugstore we arranged with the proprietor to prepare himself for  supplying the pessaries we were going to recommend.
 The morning of October 16, 191 6 — crisp but sunny and bright  after days of rain — Ethel, Fania, and I opened the doors of the first  birth control clinic in America, the first anywhere in the world except  the Netherlands.
 I still believe this was an event of social significance.
 Would the women come?
 Did they come?
 Nothing, not even the  ghost of Anthony Comstock, could have kept them away.
 We had  arrived early, but before we could get the place dusted and ourselves  ready for the official reception, Fania called, "Do come outside and  look."
 Halfway to the corner they were standing in line, at least one  hundred and fifty, some shawled, some hatless, their red hands  clasping the cold, chapped, smaller ones of their children.
 Fania began taking names, addresses, object in coming to the  clinic, histories — married or single, any miscarriages or abortions,  how many children, where born, what ages.
 Remembering how the  Netherlands clinics in recording nothing had made it almost hope-  less to measure what they had accomplished from the human point  of view, I had resolved that our files should be as complete as it  was possible to make them.
 Fania had a copy of What Every Girl     FAITH I HAVE BEEN A TRUANT IN THE LAW 217   Should Know on her desk, and, if she had a free moment, read from  it.
 When asked, she told where it could be bought, and later kept  a few copies for the convenience of those who wanted them.
 Children were left with her and mothers ushered in to Ethel or  me in the rear room, from seven to ten at once.
 To each group we  explained simply what contraception was; that abortion was the  wrong way — no matter how early it was performed it was taking  life; that contraception was the better way, the safer way — it took  a little time, a little trouble, but was well worth while in the long  run, because life had not yet begun.
 Some women were alone, some "were in pairs, some with their  neighbors, some with their married daughters.
 Some did not dare  talk this over with their husbands, and some had been urged on by  them.
 At seven in the evening they were still coming, and men also,  occasionally bringing their timid, embarrassed wives, or once in a  while by themselves to say they would stay home to take care of  the children if their wives could come.
 A hundred women and forty  men passed through the doors, but we could not begin to finish  the line; the rest were told to return "tomorrow."
 In the course of the next few days women appeared clutching  minute scraps of paper, seldom more than an inch wide, which had  crept into print.
 The Yiddish and Italian papers had picked up the  story from the handbills which bore the clinic address, and the hus-  bands had read them on their way from work and clipped them out  for their wives.
 Women who had seen the brief, inconspicuous news-  paper accounts came even from Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, New  Jersey, and the far end of Long Island.
 Newly married couples with little but love, faith, and hope to  save them from charity, told of the tiny flats they had chosen, and  of their determination to make a go of it together if only the chil-  dren were not born too soon.
 A gaunt skeleton suddenly stood up  one morning and made an impassioned speech.
 "They offer us char-  ity when we have more babies than we can feed, and when we get  sick with more babies for trying not to have them they just give us  more charity talks!"
 Women who were themselves already past childbearing age came  just to urge us to preserve others from the sorrows of ruined health,     2l8 MARGARET SANGER   overworked husbands, and broods of defective and wayward chil-  dren growing up in the streets, filling dispensaries and hospitals,  filing through the juvenile courts.
 All were confused, grop-  ing among the ignorant sex-teachings of the poor, fumbling without  guidance after truth, misled and bewildered in a tangled jungle of  popular superstitions and old wives' remedies.
 Unconsciously they  dramatized the terrible need of intelligent and scientific instruction  in these matters of life — and death.
 As was inevitable many were kept away by the report that the  police were to raid us for performing abortions.
 "Clinic" was a word  which to the uneducated usually signified such a place.
 We would not  have minded particularly being raided on this charge, because we  could easily disprove it.
 But these rumors also brought the most  pitiful of all, the reluctantly expectant mothers who hoped to find  some means of getting out of their dilemmas.
 Their desperate threats  of suicide haunted you at night.
 One Jewish wife, after bringing eight children to birth, had had  two abortions and heaven knows how many miscarriages.
 Worn  out, beaten down, not only by toiling in her own kitchen, but by  taking in extra work from a sweatshop making hats, she was now  at the end of her strength, nervous beyond words, and in a state of  morbid excitement.
 "If you don't help me, I'm going to chop up a  glass and swallow it tonight.''
 A woman wrought to the pitch of killing herself was sick —  a community responsibility.
 She, most of all, required concentrated at-  tention and devotion, and I could not let any such go out of the clinic  until her mood had been altered.
 Building up hope for the future  seemed the best deterrent.
 "Your husband and your children need  you.
 One more won't make so much difference."
 I had to make each  promise to go ahead and have this baby and myself promise in re-  turn, "You won't ever have to again.
 We're going to take care of you."
 Day after day the waiting room was crowded with members of  every race and creed; Jews and Christians, Protestants and Roman  Catholics alike made their confessions to us, whatever they may  have professed at home or in church.
 I asked one bright little Catho-     FAITH I HAVE BEEN A TRUANT IN THE LAW 219   lie what excuse she could make to the priest when he learned she  had been to the clinic.
 She answered indignantly, "It's none of his  business.
 My husband has a weak heart and works only four days  a week.
 He gets twelve dollars, and we can barely live on it now.
 We have enough children."
 Her friend, sitting by, nodded approval.
 "When I was married,"  she broke in, "the priest told us to have lots of children and we  listened to him.
 I had fifteen.
 Six are living.
 I'm thirty-seven years  old now.
 Look at me !
 I might be fifty !"
 That evening I made a mental calculation of fifteen baptismal fees,  nine baby funerals, masses and candles for the repose of nine baby  souls, the physical agonies of the mother and the emotional torment  of both parents, and I asked myself, "Is this the price of Christianity ?"
 But it was not altogether sad; we were often cheered by gayer  visitors.
 The grocer's wife on the corner and the widow with six  children who kept the lunch room up the street dropped in to wish  us luck, and the fat old German baker whose wife gave out hand-  bills to everybody passing the door sent regular donations of dough-  nuts.
 Whenever the pressure became so overwhelming that we could  not go out for a meal we were sure to hear Mrs. Rabinowitz call  downstairs, "If I bring some hot tea now, will you stop the people  coming?"
 Two jovial policemen paused at the doorway each morn-  ing to discuss the weather.
 Reporters looked in speculating on how  long we were going to last.
 The postman delivering his customary  fifty to a hundred letters had his little pleasantry, "Farewell, ladies ;  hope I find you here tomorrow."
 Although the line outside was enough to arouse police attention,  nine days went by without interference.
 Then one afternoon when  I, still undiscouraged, was out interviewing a doctor, a woman, large  of builcl and hard of countenance, entered and said to Fania she was  the mother of two children and that she had no money to support  more.
 She did not appear overburdened or anxious and, because she  was so well fed as to body and prosperous as to clothes, did not  seem to belong to the community.
 She bought a copy of What Every  Girl Should Know and insisted on paying two dollars instead of the  usual ten-cent fee.
 Fania, who had an intuition about such matters, called Ethel aside     220 MARGARET SANGER   and said warningly she was certain this must be a policewoman.
 But Ethel, who was not of the cautious type, replied, "We have  nothing to hide.
 Bring her in anyhow."
 She talked with the woman  in private, gave her our literature and, when asked about our fu-  ture plans, related them frankly.
 The sceptical Fania pinned the  two-dollar bill on the wall and wrote underneath, "Received from   Mrs. of the Police Department, as her contribution."
 Hourly   after that we expected trouble.
 We had known it must occur sooner  or later, but would have preferred it to come about in a different  way.
 The next day Ethel and Fania were both absent from the clinic.
 The waiting room was filled almost to suffocation when the door  opened and the woman who had been described to me came in.
 "Are you Mrs.
 Sanger?"
 "Yes.
 '-'   "I'm a police officer.
 You're under arrest."
 The doors were locked and this Mrs. Margaret Whitehurst and  other plain-clothes members of the vice squad — used to raiding  gambling dens and houses of assignation — began to demand names  and addresses of the women, seeing them with babies, broken, old,  worried, harrowed, yet treating them as though they were inmates  of a brothel.
 Always fearful in the presence of the police, some be-  gan to cry aloud and the children on their laps screamed too.
 For  a few moments it was like a panic, until I was able to assure them  that only I was under arrest ; nothing was going to happen to them,  and they could return home if they were quiet.
 After half an hour I  finally persuaded the policemen to let these frightened women go.
 All of our four hundred and sixty- four case histories were con-  fiscated, and the table and demonstration supplies were carried off  through the patient line outside.
 The more timid had left, but many  had stayed.
 This was a region where a crowd could be collected by  no more urgent gesture than a tilt of the head skyward.
 Newspaper  men with their cameras had joined the throng and the street was  packed.
 Masses of people spilled out over the sidewalk on to the  pavement, milling excitedly.
 The patrol wagon came rattling up to our door.
 I had a certain  respect for uniformed policemen — you knew what they were about     FAITH I HAVE BEEN A TRUANT IN THE LAW 221   — but none whatsoever for the vice squad.
 I was white hot with in-  dignation over their unspeakable attitude towards the clinic mothers  and stated I preferred to walk the mile to the court rather than sit  with them.
 Their feelings were quite hurt.
 "Why, we didn't do any-  thing to you, Mrs. Sanger," they protested.
 Nevertheless I marched  ahead, they following behind.
 A reporter from the Brooklyn Eagle fell into step beside me and  before we had gone far suggested, "Now I'll fix it up with the  police that you make a getaway, and when we reach that corner you  run.
 I'll stop and talk to them while you skip around the block and  get to the station first."
 It was fantastic for anyone so to misconstrue  what I was doing as to imagine I would run around the block for a  publicity stunt.
 ,1 stayed overnight at the Raymond Street Jail, and I shall never  forget it.
 The mattresses were spotted and smelly, the blankets stiff  with dirt and grime.
 The stench nauseated me.
 It was not a comfort-  ing thought to go without bedclothing when it was so cold, but, hav-  ing in mind the diseased occupants who might have preceded me, I  could not bring myself to creep under the covers.
 Instead I lay  down on top and wrapped my coat around me.
 The only clean ob-  ject was my towel, and this I draped over my face and head.
 For  endless hours I struggled with roaches and horrible-looking bugs  that came crawling out of the walls and across the floor.
 When a rat  jumped up on the bed I cried out involuntarily and sent it scuttling  out.
 My cell- was at the end of a center row, all opening front and  back upon two corridors.
 The prisoners gathered in one of the aisles  the next morning and I joined them.
 Most had been accused of minor  offenses such as shoplifting and petty thievery.
 Many had weather-  beaten faces, were a class by themselves, laughing and unconcerned.
 But I heard no coarse language.
 Underneath the chatter I sensed a  deep and bitter resentment; some of them had been there for three or  four months without having been brought to trial.
 The more fortu-  nate had a little money to engage lawyers ; others had to wait for the  court to assign them legal defenders.
 While I was talking to the girls, the matron bustled up with, "The  ladies are coming !"
 and shooed us into our cells.
 The Ladies, a com-     222 MARGARET SANGER   mittee from a society for prison reform, peered at us as though we  were animals in cages.
 A gentle voice cooed at me, "Did you come  in during the night?"
 "Yes," I returned, overlooking the assumption that I was a street  walker.
 "Can we do anything for you?"
 The other inmates were sitting in their corners looking as inno-  cent and sweet as they could, but I startled her by saying, "Yes, you  can.
 Come in and clean up this place.
 It's filthy and verminous^"   The Committee departed hurriedly down the corridor.
 One more  alert member, however, came back to ask, "Is it really very dirty?"
 Although I told her in some detail about the blankets, the odors, the  roaches, she obviously could not picture the situation.
 "I'm terribly  sorry, but we can't change it."
 I was still exasperated over this reply when I was called to the  reception room to give an interview to reporters.
 In addition to an-  swering questions about the raid I said I had a message to the tax-  payers of Brooklyn; they were paying money to keep their prisons  run in an orderly fashion as in any civilized community and should  know it was being wasted, because the conditions at Raymond Street  were intolerable.
 My bail was arranged by afternoon and when I emerged I saw  waiting in front the woman who was going to swallow the glass;  she had been there all that time.
 I went straight back to the clinic, reopened it, and more mothers  came in.
 I had hoped a court decision might allow us to continue,  but now Mr. Rabinowitz came downstairs apologetically.
 He said  he was sorry, and he really was, but the police had made him sign  ejection papers, on the ground that I was "maintaining a public  nuisance."
 In the Netherlands a clinic had been cited as a public benefac-  tion; in the United States it was classed as a public nuisance.
 Two uniformed policemen came for me, and with them I was  willing to ride in the patrol wagon to the station.
 As we started I  heard a scream from a woman who had just come around the cor-  ner on her way to the clinic.
 She abandoned her baby carriage,  rushed through the crowd, and cried, "Come back!
 Come back and     FAITH I HAVE BEEN A TRUANT IN THE LAW 223   save me !"
 For a dozen yards she ran after the van before someone  caught her and led her to the sidewalk.
 But the last thing I heard  was this poor distracted mother, shrieking and calling, "Come back !
 Come back !"
 Chapter Eighteen     LEAN HUNGER AND GREEN THIRST     ''All that we know who lie in gaol  Is that the wall is strong;   And that each day is like a year,  A year whose days are long."
 OSCAR WILDE     LOOKING back upon this period fraught with emotional distress,  j I have no regrets.
 But, looking ahead, I am grateful that there  looms no necessity for repeating those passionate, dangerous, and  menacing days.
 Out of the raid four separate cases resulted: Ethel was charged  with violating Section 1142 of the Penal Code, designed to prevent  dissemination of contraceptive information; Fania with having sold  an allegedly indecent book entitled What Every Girl Should Know;  I, first, with having conducted a clinic in violation of the same Sec-  tion 1 142, second, with violating Section 1530 by maintaining a  public nuisance.
 I claimed that Section 1142 which forbade contraceptive informa-  tion to, for, and by anyone was unconstitutional, because no state  was permitted to interfere with a citizen's right to' life or liberty, and  such denial was certainly interference.
 Experience had shown it did  the case no good merely to defend such a stand in a lower court; it  must be carried to a higher tribunal, and only a lawyer versed in  whereases and whatsoevers and inasmuchases could accomplish this.
 But I was still hopeful of finding one who was able to see that the  importance of birth control could not be properly emphasized if we  bowed too deeply before the slow and ponderous majesty of the law.
 The attorney who offered himself, J. J. Goldstein, had a back-   224     LEAN HUNGER AND GREEN THIRST 225   ground which made him more sympathetic than other lawyers, even  the most liberal.
 He was one of those young Jewish men of promise  who had been guided through adolescence by Mary Simkhovitch,  founder of Greenwich House, and Lillian Wald, founder of the  Henry Street Settlement.
 The 'seeds of social service had been planted  in him ; his legal training only temporarily slowed down their growth.
 J.J. had placed himself in a difficult position for a youthful Tam-  many Democrat, some day to be a magistrate; he might have been  forgiven more easily had he received a larger fee.
 Though he had to  be convinced that we declined to have anything to do with political  wire-pulling, he fought for us valiantly.
 November 20th we pleaded not guilty and trial was set for Novem-  ber 27th.
 J.J. endeavored to have the three of us tried simultaneously,  but the Court of Special Sessions would have none of it.
 Then he  asked for a jury trial, which could be granted at the discretion of the  Supreme Court; application was denied.
 An appeal to the Appellate  Division was dismissed ; writs of habeas corpus were dismissed ; an-  other appeal to the Appellate Division was dismissed; adjournments  pending appeal were urged but not granted.
 Indeed I was being swiftly  educated in the technicalities of criminal law.
 I felt like a victim who passed into the courtroom, was made to  bow before the judge, and did not know what it was all about.
 Every  gesture had its special significance, which must not be left out if ap-  peals were to be possible.
 We had to make many more appearances  than would otherwise have been necessary ; everything had to be cor-  rectly on the record.
 Evening after evening J.J. rehearsed the arguments he was going  to present and directed me to respond to questioning.
 I did not  understand the technicalities and begged to be allowed to tell the  story in my own way, fearful lest the heartaches of the mothers be  lost in the labyrinthine maze of judicial verbiage.
 But he maintained  if the case were to be appealed to a higher court, it had to be con-  ducted according to certain formalities.
 "Why should it have to be in legal language?"
 I demanded.
 "I'm  a simple citizen, born in a democratic country.
 A court should also  listen to my plea expressed in plain language for the common people.
 I'm sure I can make them understand and arouse their compassion."
 226 MARGARET SANGER   He reiterated that I could not address a court as though I were  trying to instil my views in an individual.
 "You can't talk to them  that way.
 You'll have to let me talk."
 "But that's the way I talk and I'm the accused."
 I fully expected that if I were permitted to set forth my human  version of the Brownsville tragedies, no appeal would be required.
 But J.J. knew the courts and had no such hopes.
 He was still doubt-  ful of any success before the lower tribunal, and was still unable to  see my point, counting chiefly on technicalities to win the case.
 J.J. had formally objected to having our trial set during the No-  vember session because Justice Mclnerney was due to preside that  month, and at previous trials he had expressed biased opinions.
 This  objection was overruled.
 The strictly legal method having failed, I resorted to my own and  wrote Justice Mclnerney an open letter :   As an American pledged to the principles and spirit in which this  Republic was founded, as a judge obligated by oath to fair and im-  partial judgment, do you in your deepest conscience consider your-  self qualified to try my case ?
 In those birth control cases at which you have presided, you have  shown to all thinking men and women an unfailing prejudice and  exposed a mind steeped in the bigotry and intolerance of the In-  quisition.
 To come before you implies conviction.
 Judge Mclnerney "made application to the District Attorney to be  taken off this case."
 Trial was marked for January 4, 19 17, but the first case, that of  Ethel, was reached so late in the afternoon it had to be postponed.
 Four days afterwards, in spite of our attempts to be tried together,  she appeared alone.
 She freely admitted she had described birth con-  trol methods but denied the District Attorney's accusation that our  ten-cent registration fee made it a "money making" affair.
 This and  other sensational charges, such as "the clinic was intended to do away  with the Jews" were often inserted in the records for reporters to  pick up, make good stories of them, and in consequence influence  newspaper readers against us.
 They were great stumbling blocks.
 Our most important witness, Dr. Morris H. Kahn, physician in     LEAN HUNGER AND GREEN THIRST 227   Bloomingdale's Department Store who also maintained a private  clinic where he gave out birth control information, was ready to  testify, but his evidence was ruled out as "irrelevant, incompetent,  and immaterial."
 To be sure the charge against Ethel was as a lay  person ; nevertheless, it was extraordinary that we could get no hear-  ing for a doctor.
 J. J. was allowed only fifteen minutes to present his  argument on the unconstitutionality of Section 1142, and the presid-  ing Judge decided that the court was bound to hold it constitutional  on precedent, regardless of argument.
 Ethel was found guilty.
 In the two weeks before sentence was to be pronounced we debated  what she and I should do.
 Perhaps it could be stayed, which would  settle everything, but we each had to be prepared for either a short  term of imprisonment or a long one.
 In case of the former, submis-  sion was the wiser course, because the public would not consider it  of sufficient moment to bestir itself; in the latter event, a hunger  strike seemed indicated, but, again, only if sufficient attention could  be called to it.
 The New York World had the most liberal policy of all the lead-  ing morning dailies, and therefore appeared to offer the best likeli-  hood of being favorably disposed.
 I approached one of its editors  and asked whether he would print our entire story if I were to give  him a scoop and guarantee accuracy.
 He agreed, and assigned us a  special reporter.
 Ethel was sentenced January 22nd to thirty days in the Workhouse  on Blackwell's Island in the East River.
 In spite of our discussion  over this possibility, she was utterly shocked, and exclaimed, "I'm  going to go on that hunger strike."
 After spending the night in the Tombs, she was returned the next  morning to the Federal District Court of Brooklyn on a writ of habeas  corpus as a means of suspending sentence pending appeal.
 Daylight  had brought no change in her determination to continue with the  hunger strike.
 "I haven't had anything to eat yet," she declared, and,  remembering the tale that one hunger striker had received nourish-  ment in her cups of water, she added, "and, if they send me back, I  shan't drink anything either."
 Neither J.J. nor I considered such a short sentence worth break-     228 MARGARET SANGER   ing your life for.
 Furthermore, the cause did not mean to Ethel  what it did to me.
 "Think this over very carefully," I reminded her.
 "A hunger strike is not necessary, and if you once start you'll have  to keep it up."
 She insisted that she was ready to die if need be;  she had made her will and arranged for the disposition of her two  children — the hunger strike was to go on- The writ was refused  and she was remanded to the Workhouse.
 On her way there she told  the women with whom she shared the patrol wagon the salient facts  of birth control.
 When Commissioner of Correction Burdette G. Lewis was asked  to comment on Ethel's decision he scoffed.
 "Others have threatened  hunger strikes.
 It means nothing."
 At first no food at all was brought  her, but after the publicity began the authorities were in despair  to make her eat.
 This was a case they did not know how to handle ;  they were mentally unprepared for prisoners who were guilty of per-  forming a legal wrong in order to win a legal right.
 Ethel had gone one hundred and three hours without eating when  Commissioner Lewis established a precedent in American prison an-  nals by ordering her forcibly fed, the first woman to be so treated  in this country.
 He stated optimistically to the press how simple the  process was, consisting of merely rolling her in a blanket so she  could not struggle, and then having milk, eggs, and a stimulant forced  into her stomach through a rubber tube.
 He stressed how healthy  she continued to be, how little opposition she offered, how foolish  the whole thing appeared to him anyhow; he was going to charge  her for the expense incurred in calling in an expert to feed her.
 As soon as I heard my sister was "passive under the feeding" I  became desperately anxious about her; nothing but complete loss of  strength could have lessened her resistance.
 After one interview Commissioner Lewis had barred all reporters  and given out a statement of his own.
 "I have not much patience  with Mrs. Byrne's efforts to get advertising for her cause, and I  won't help such a campaign along by issuing bulletins."
 But bulletins were being issued, nevertheless — and printed.
 From prearranged sources I was receiving messages and notes  each evening, and reports on Ethel's pulse and temperature.
 Thus  I learned her vision was becoming affected and her heart was begin-     LEAN HUNGER AND GREEN THIRST 229   ning to miss beats, due to lack of liquids.
 "Going without water was  pretty bad," she said herself.
 "At night the woman whose duty it was  to go up and down the corridors to give the prisoners a drink if they  wanted it stopped right by my cell and cried, 'Water!
 Water!'
 till  it seemed as if I could not stand it.
 Nobody was allowed to visit Ethel but J.J., who, as her lawyer,  could not well be refused.
 But reporters have their own mysterious  ways of getting what they want.
 The World man succeeded in reach-  ing her.
 It was not on the whole a successful interview, because she  did not know who he was, but it did have one important result —  it confirmed at first hand our statements as to the seriousness of her  condition.
 In the midst of my anxiety over Ethel, my own trial opened  January 29th in the same bare, smoky, upstairs Brooklyn court in  which she had appeared.
 Justices John J. Freschi, Italian, Moses  Hermann, Jewish, and George J. O'Keefe, Irish, sat on the bench.
 Judge Freschi, a rather young man, presided, and on him we pinned  our hopes.
 We did not expect anything of old Judge Herrmann ex-  cept that, because he was Jewish, he might be broad-minded.
 As to  Judge O'Keefe we had no illusions.
 No less than thirty of the mothers of Brownsville had been sub-  poenaed by the prosecution, but about fifty arrived — some equipped  with fruit, bread, pacifiers, and extra diapers, others distressed at  having had to spend carfare, timid at the thought of being in court,  hungry because no kosher food could be obtained near by.
 Neverthe-  less, all smiled and nodded at me reassuringly.
 Formerly, a few women of wealth but of liberal tendencies had  been actively concerned in the movement, but now some who were  prominent socially were coming to believe on principle that birth con-  trol should not be denied to the masses.
 The subject was in the process  of ceasing to be tagged as radical and revolutionary, and becoming  admittedly humanitarian.
 In this room, side by side with the ones to be helped, sat new help-  ers.
 Among them was Mrs. Amos Pinchot, Chairman of the Women's  Committee of One Hundred, formed to lend support to the defense.
 Her reddish hair betrayed a temper quick and easily aroused in the     23O MARGARET SANGER   cause of justice.
 Aristocratic of bearing, autocratic by position, she  was one to command and be obeyed, and was easily a leading per-  sonality in the philanthropic smart set of New York.
 Among her  valuable services was the bringing into the fold of the mothers and  aunts of the present active Junior Leaguers.
 Mrs. Lewis L. Delafield's limousine stood in front of the doors at  almost every trial and it meant a great deal to the defendants to have  the wife of one of the most eminent members of the New York bar  in the courtroom.
 By her very demeanor and looks — white-haired, a  fragile countenance — you knew she could touch nothing that was  not fine, and that she had the spiritual courage to stand by her ideas  and ideals in both her public and private life.
 Always she opened  her home and her heart and her arms to those she loved.
 Fania was called first.
 She was a girl with a pale and delicate face,  and was too worried to bear the strain.
 She should not be punished  for co-operating, and I told J.J. to notify the court that she was not  well, though I strictly forbade him to say anything about my health.
 Her trial was brief, narrowing itself down to whether What Every  Girl Should Know was to be classed as indecent.
 A few days later  she was found guilty and sentenced to fifty dollars' fine, a decision  which was eventually reversed on appeal.
 It surprised me that in my trial the prosecution should be carried  on so vehemently, because the prosecutor had little to prove.
 To me  there seemed to be no argument at all; the last thing in my mind  was to deny having given birth control advice.
 Certainly I had vio-  lated the letter of the law, but that was what I was opposing.
 I grew more and more puzzled by the stilted language, the circum-  locutions, the respect for precedent.
 These legal battles, fought in a  curiously unreal world, intensified my defiance to the breaking point.
 I longed for a discussion in the open on merit and in simple, honest  terms.
 I thought I might have my wish when Judge Freschi, holding up  a cervical cap which the prosecuting attorney had put in evidence,  said, "Who can prove this is a violation ; the law states that contra-  ception is permitted for the prevention of disease.
 May it not be used  for medical reasons?"
 LEAN HUNGER AND GREEN THIRST 23 1   This question raised my hopes high.
 At last the law might be inter-  preted according to the definition I so desired; ill health resulting  from pregnancy caused by lack of its use might be construed as dis-  ease.
 Then one by one the Brownsville mothers were called to the stand  to answer the District Attorney.
 "Have you ever seen Mrs. Sanger  before?"
 "Yess.
 Yess, I know Mrs.
 Sanger."
 "Where did you see her ?"
 "At the cleenic."
 "Why did you go there?"
 "To have her stop the babies."
 The witness bowed sweet acknowledgment to me until she was  peremptorily commanded to address the court.
 "Did you get this information ?"
 "Yess.
 Yess, dank you, I got it.
 It wass gut, too."
 "Enough."
 the District Attorney barked, and called another.
 Time after time they gave answers that were like nails to seal my  doom, yet each thought she was assisting me.
 J.J. saw how their testimony could be turned to our advantage.
 He asked, "How many miscarriages have you had?
 How much  sickness in your family?
 How much does your husband earn?
 The  answers were seven, eight, nine dollars a week."
 At last one woman more miserable and more poverty-stricken than  the rest was summoned.
 "How many children have you ?"
 "Eight and three that didn't live."
 "What does your husband earn?"
 "Ten dollars a veek — ven he vorks."
 Judge Freschi finally exclaimed, "I can't stand this any longer,"  and the court adjourned over the week-end.
 J.J. was jubilant, because he said there was nothing for him to do ;  the court was arguing his case for him.
 I myself was feeling a little conscience-smitten.
 A mass meeting  of sympathizers had been organized by the Committee of One Hun-  dred for that evening in Carnegie Hall, and I went straight there  from the courtroom.
 I had a speech ready in which I said we were     232 MARGARET SANGER   being persecuted, not prosecuted; that the judges were no better than  witch-burners.
 It was unfortunate, but copies had already been re-  leased to the press and the wording could not be changed.
 Helen Todd, the Chairman, a grand person who had been trained  under Jane Addams, had given the mothers of Brownsville places  of honor on the platform to let everybody see what kind of women  we were fighting for.
 She asked for twenty volunteers to follow the  example of the English suffragettes who had gone on hunger strikes  en masse, but no women whose names registered socially in the public  mind were willing thus to join in protesting against the law; only  working girls came forward.
 Three days later Jessie Ashley and I took the train for Albany  with Mrs. Pinchot, who was a close friend of Governor Charles S.  Whitman, to ask him to appoint a commission to investigate birth  control and make a report to the State Legislature.
 The Governor,  who was fair and intelligent, quite distinctly representing a class of  liberal politicians, received us cordially.
 Ethel and her hunger strike had been front-page news for ten  days; in the subway, on street corners, everywhere people gathered,  she was being discussed.
 In Washington and Albany congressmen  and legislators were sending out for the latest details.
 Governor Whit-  man naturally asked about her, and we seized the opportunity to try  to impress on him the outrageousness of making her suffer for so  just a cause.
 He said directly her incarceration was a disgrace to the  State.
 He was entirely out of sympathy with the courts and judges,  and offered a pardon conditional upon her ceasing to disseminate  birth control information.
 But I had not come to ask that favor.
 "My sister wouldn't take a pardon," I replied, much to the distress  of Mrs. Pinchot.
 However, I accepted gratefully his letter to the  warden at Blackwell's Island authorizing me to see her.
 The next morning I appeared again before the court.
 During the  three-day interim the effect of the mothers' testimony had evidently  been effaced from the judges' minds, and they were infuriated by my  Carnegie Hall denunciation.
 But far more detrimental to my hope  of a new interpretation was the prosecution's introduction of a Federal  agent who had once confiscated a copy of Family Limitation in which     LEAN HUNGER AND GREEN THIRST 233   was the picture of this same cervical cap; he read aloud my advice  to women to use it as a" means of preventing conception.
 Not even  the most friendly judge could get away from the fact that I had in-  tended a far broader definition than any permitted by the existing  law.
 The prosecution argued further that the constitutionality of Sec-  tion 1 142 could not be challenged, because the exception for physicians  in Section 1 145 already guaranteed "liberty" to citizens.
 And, since  I was not a physician and consequently did not come under the ex-  ception, the court must, in any event, find me guilty.
 This they did.
 The day had been so full that I was not able to avail myself of  Governor Whitman's permit to visit Ethel until evening, when Mr.  and Mrs. Pinchot took me in their car to the Workhouse.
 I remember  how cold it was ; the trip on the ferry seemed to go on forever.
 But  when we finally arrived, at the name of Pinchot, the friend of the  Governor, doors swung open ; officialdom turned polite and courteous  and salaamed us on our way.
 The Pinchots remained below while I was sent up to Ethel's cell,  where she was lying on her iron cot, dressed in readiness for her  release.
 Her appearance shocked and horrified me.
 She had grown  thin and emaciated, her eyes were sunken and her tongue swollen,  high red spots stood out on her cheeks.
 She could not see me even  across the narrow cell, knowing me only by my voice.
 Hers was muffled  as she whispered me to come nearer, her mind confused.
 "Liberty,"  she kept repeating, "I want my liberty."
 Her life was all that mattered to me now.
 I had to eat humble pie,  and said to the matron I was going to telegraph Governor Whitman  that she was too ill to accept the conditions of the pardon for her-  self, but I would promise on her behalf.
 I was told that he had already  signed the pardon, was on his way to New York, and to wait down-  stairs, please.
 After about half an hour we were informed Mrs. Byrne was com-  ing down.
 I went along the hallway to meet her.
 She was being held  up by two attendants, the matron following with wraps.
 Her head  was rolling from side to side, and I could see from the pallor of her  face, especially from the pinched look of her nose and mouth, that  she was losing consciousness.
 I protested to the matron, but orders     234 MARGARET SANGER   had been given and were being obeyed ; Commissioner Lewis wanted  the newspaper pictures to show her coming out on her feet.
 Running back to the room where the Pinchots were sitting, I ex-  claimed, "She's fainting!"
 Then Mrs. Einchot clapped her hands im-  periously and directed the attendants to lay Ethel down immediately  and bring a stretcher.
 A command from her worked like magic.
 She  wrapped her own fur coat around the pathetic figure and, as soon  as Ethel felt the softness and warmth, she knew she was safe.
 We  carried her over to my apartment to begin the protracted period of  recuperation.
 Only after a year's convalescence was she able to take  up a normal life again.
 Being the real instigator, I had every reason to expect a longer term  than Ethel.
 Logically, her hunger strike had served its purpose ; that  form of strategy was closed.
 But personally I decided that, if I should  receive a year, I should do the same.
 On the other hand, if I were  given three months or less, I could study and make use of my time.
 J.J. had heard on reliable authority that if I were to change my plea  to guilty, I could have a suspended sentence.
 To his mind freedom  alone meant victory, and he urged me to accept it if it were offered.
 This, it developed, was the intention of the court when on Mon-  day I was called back for sentence.
 Having Ethel off the front page  had brought a sigh of relief of almost national scope.
 But all the  publicity had had its effect on public opinion, and doubtless influenced  the judges also to a certain extent.
 Since they could not agree to  change the interpretation of the law, they had been obliged to find  me guilty, but they did not really want to inflict punishment.
 They were, however, extremely suspicious of our assertion that  we were going to carry the case higher.
 Jessie Ashley, Ida Rauh,  and Bolton Hall had all been let off with fines on the understanding  they proposed to appeal, and then they had not done so.
 Courts were  beginning to assume this was just a trick of birth control advocates,  not meant in good faith.
 I sat listening to what seemed an interminable discussion between  J.J. and Judge Freschi over whether the appeal were going to be  prosecuted in a quick and orderly fashion, until I was nearly lulled  to sleep.
 Suddenly my attention was caught by hearing J.J. declare  that I would "promise not to violate the law."
 LEAN HUNGER AND GREEN THIRST 235   My mind clicked.
 It was not in my program to bargain for free-  dom.
 J J., knowing fulhwell I would make no such promise, had  planted himself in front of me so the court could not see my bel-  ligerent face.
 He was trying to act as a buffer and, at the same time,  for fear of what I might say, to avoid having me summoned to the  stand.
 I tried to peer around him, but he shifted from side to side,  obscuring my view.
 I tugged on his coat like a badly brought up child,  but he took no notice.
 Finally one of the judges interposed, "Your  client wishes to speak to you, counselor."
 I could be ignored no longer,  and was called.
 "Margaret Sanger, stand up."
 History is written in retrospect, but contemporary documents must  be consulted; therefore I have gone to the official records for the  facts.
 After all, one courtroom is much like another, and the attitude  of one justice not so dissimilar from that of another.
 I was combat-  ing a mass ideology, and the judges who were its spokesmen merged  into a single voice, all saying, "Be good and we'll let you off."
 This  is what I heard:   You have been in court during the time that your counsel made  the statement that pending the prosecution of appeal neither you nor  those affiliated with you in this so called movement will violate the  law ; that is the promise your counsel makes for you.
 Now, the Court  is considering extreme clemency in your case.
 Possibly you know  what extreme clemency means.
 Now, do you personally make that  promise ?
 The Defendant : Pending the appeal.
 The Court : If Mrs. Sanger will state publicly and openly that she  will be a law-abiding citizen without any qualifications whatsoever,  this Court is prepared to exercise the highest degree of leniency.
 The Defendant : I'd like to have it understood by the gentlemen of  the Court that the offer of leniency is very kind and I appreciate it  very much.
 It is with me not a question of personal imprisonment or  personal disadvantage.
 I am today and always have been more con-  cerned with changing the law regardless of what I have to undergo  to have it done.
 The Court : Then I take it that you are indifferent about this matter  entirely.
 The Defendant: No, I am not indifferent.
 I am indifferent as to  the personal consequences to myself, but I am not indifferent to the  cause and the influence which can be attained for the cause.
 The Court : Since you are of that mind, am I to infer that you in-     236 MARGARET SANGER   tend to go on in this matter, violating the law, irrespective of the  consequences ?
 The Defendant : I haven't said that.
 I said I am perfectly willing  not to violate Section 11 42 — pending the appeal.
 Justice Herrmann : The appeal has nothing to do with it.
 Either  you do or you don't.
 The Court : (to Mr. Goldstein) What is the use of beating around  the bush ?
 You have communicated to me in my chambers the physical  condition of your client, and you told me that this woman would  respect the law.
 This law was not made by us.
 We are simply here  to judge the case.
 We harbor no feeling against Mrs. Sanger.
 We  have nothing to do with her beliefs, except in so far as she carries  those beliefs into practice and violates the law.
 But in view of your  statement that you intend to prosecute this appeal and make a test  case out of this and in view of the fact that we are to regard her as  a first offender, surely we want to temper justice with mercy and that's  all we are trying to do.
 And we ask her, openly and above board, "Will  you publicly declare that you will respect the law and not violate it?"
 and then we get an answer with a qualification.
 Now, what can the  prisoner at the bar for sentence expect ?
 I don't know that a prisoner  under such circumstances is entitled to very much consideration after  all."
 The Court : (to the Defendant) We don't want you to do impossible  things, Mrs. Sanger, only the reasonable thing and that is to comply  with this law as long as it remains the law.
 It is the law for you, it is  the law for me, it is the law for all of us until it is changed; and  you know what means and avenues are open to you to have it  changed, and they are lawful ways.
 You may prosecute these methods,  and no one can find fault with you.
 If you succeed in changing the law,  well and good.
 If you fail, then you have to bow in submission to the  majority rule.
 The Defendant : It is just the chance, the opportunity to test it.
 The Court : Very good.
 You have had your day in court ; you ad-  vocated a cause, you were brought to the bar, you wanted to be tried  here, you were judged, you didn't go on the stand and commit perjury  in any sense, you took the facts and accepted them as true, and you  are ready for judgment, even the worst.
 Now, we are prepared, how-  ever, under all the circumstances of this case, to be extremely lenient  with you if you will tell us that you will respect this law and not  violate it again.
 The Defendant : I have given you my answer.
 The Court: We don't want any qualifications.
 We are not con-  cerned with the appeal.
 Mr, Goldstein : Just one other statement, your Honor, one final     LEAN HUNGER AND GREEN THIRST 237   statement on my part.
 Your Honor did well say that you didn't want  anything unreasonable.
 With all due deference to your Honor, to  ask a person what her frame of mind will be with so many exigencies  in future, that is, if the commission did nothing or the Legislature  did nothing —   The Court : All we are concerned about is this statute, and as long  as it remains the law will this woman promise here and now unquali-  fiedly to respect it and obey it?
 Now, it is yes or no.
 What is your  answer, Mrs. Sanger ?
 Is it yes or no ?
 The Defendent : I can't respect the law as it stands today.
 You have chal-  lenged the constitutionality of the law under consideration and the  jurisdiction of this Court.
 When this is done in an orderly way no  one can find fault.
 It is your right as a citizen.
 .
 .
 .
 Refusal to obey  the law becomes an open defiance of the rule of the majority.
 While  the law is in its present form, defiance provokes anything but reason-  able consideration.
 The judgment of the Court is that you be con-  fined to the Workhouse for the period of thirty days.
 A single cry, "Shame !"
 was followed by a sharp rap of the gavel,  and silence fell.
 Chapter Nineteen     THIS PRISON WHERE I LIVE     I SAT in the front row while the court routine continued.
 The  room buzzed with conversation.
 J.J. was busy with formalities;  reporters were leaning over to ask me questions.
 Through the near-by  doorway I saw several young men awaiting their sentences like actors  in the wings listening for their cues.
 One was propped against the  wall smoking a cigarette.
 At the sound of his name he raised his head,  signifying he had heard, and yet kept on smoking.
 When it was  called a second time an attendant shoved him forward roughly.
 I  could almost feel the hardening of his soul under this brutal attitude  and the physical handling.
 He gave still another puff ; then deliberately  dropped the stub, stepped on it, and sauntered leisurely forward to  receive his sentence.
 I was led into an anteroom where other prisoners were being put  through the regular fingerprinting procedure.
 I refused; there was  a definite connection in my mind between admission of guilt and  fingerprinting ; both in their different ways placed me in the category  of criminals.
 My refractoriness was reported to the court.
 But the  judges, poor dears, had worn themselves out trying to avoid sending  me to jail and were exasperated and cross; one more rebellion was  too much for them.
 "Don't bother us with that.
 It's not our job.
 Take  her away."
 We were then herded through the rear of the building into an  open yard where the van was standing.
 The careless youth who had   238     THIS PRISON WHERE I LIVE 239   answered the court's call with such unconcern was waving farewell  to friends who loitered Outside.
 "How long, Alf ?"
 asked one.
 "Five years," and he laughed as he said it.
 Two more boys, their arms fraternally flung across one another's  shoulders, shouted, "Three !"
 and, "Four !"
 consecutively.
 Were they  normal?
 Could liberty be of so little account?
 The muscles in my  throat contracted as I pictured the maternal love once spent on their  infancy, and now the reckless disregard for freedom culminating in  this ride.
 Thirty days seemed to me the end of the world, but they  made light of marking time in life for years, calling this their "sleep-  ing time."
 They paid no attention to me; I was entirely out of their  realm.
 The women huddled beside me were more serious.
 An hysterical  and tearful "one-monther" had been obliged to leave her small four-  year-old son sitting on the veranda watching for her return.
 She had  not even been allowed to go back to see him and arrange for his care  during her absence.
 Some experiences, though unexpected, are nevertheless partially  anticipated in the subconscious.
 I had believed fully and firmly that  some miracle would occur to keep me from going to jail.
 There had  been no miracle.
 The doors banged shut, two blue uniforms stared  stolidly at each other, the automobile jerked forward.
 The trip to Raymond Street was short.
 We were ushered into a  waiting room.
 A thin-lipped attendant of huge size callously pushed  one weeping girl through the door.
 "Get ready there, you!"
 she tossed over her shoulder at me.
 "For what?"
 "For the doctor."
 I sat still.
 She repeated, "Do you hear me?
 Go  in and get your examination !"
 I resented this attitude with every fiber of my being and replied,  "I'm not being examined."
 "Ho, you're not?
 You're one of the fighting kind, are you?
 Well,  we'll soon fix you, young lady !"
 She swung her heavy, massive frame out the door, leaving me  wondering, but quivering with excited determination.
 I was not sure  what would happen to me.
 Within five minutes, however, she came     24O MARGARET SANGER   back with an entirely different manner and tone.
 "Oh, you're Mrs.  Sanger.
 It's all right.
 Come this way, please."
 The next morning I was given a cup of bitter, turbid, lukewarm  coffee, and then placed inside the van, which set off for the Work-  house.
 There all my possessions were taken from me.
 A long wait.
 The men were sent somewhere and the women somewhere else, I did  not know where.
 I just sat.
 After what seemed hours my belongings  were returned and a woman in coat and hat told me to follow her.
 I did.
 A man added himself to our party, and the three of us climbed  into another van.
 We were driven some distance down the Island,  then put into a boat and ferried over to New York.
 I had no idea  where we were going.
 I asked but could elicit no answer.
 But it did not help me because I had  not seen it before; the section was unfamiliar to me.
 In early after-  noon we reached the Queens County Penitentiary, Long Island City.
 Evidently the Workhouse authorities had had enough of the Higgins  family and wanted no more responsibility of this nature.
 Warden Joseph McCann, who met me, was a jovial young Irish-  man who had risen from the police ranks.
 "Have you had any lunch?"
 he asked.
 The cause of his solicitude emerged when he inquired anx-  iously whether I intended to go on a hunger strike.
 Remembering  my morning cup of coffee, I replied, "Not unless your food is too  bad."
 He introduced Mrs. Sullivan, the motherly matron.
 I answered the usual interrogatory about where I was born, how  old I was, etc., etc.
 When the clerk came to "What religion?"
 I re-  plied, "Humanity."
 He had never heard of this form of belief, and  rephrased the question.
 "Well, what church do you go to?"
 "None."
 He looked at me in sharp surprise.
 All inmates of the penitentiary  went to church; ninety-eight percent in my corridor had been reared  as Catholics.
 The prison clothing which I was handed was much like a nurse's  uniform and did not disturb me.
 But when I was recalled to the  warden's office to be fingerprinted, I said flatly I would not submit.
 He sent me back, to my cell.
 THIS PRISON WHERE I LIVE 24 1   The floor was arranged rather on the order of a hospital ward,  with little alcoves of ten or fifteen cells running off the gallery.
 Mine,  Number 210, was small but clean.
 I had a bed, toilet, and washstand.
 There was no chair ; I sat on my bunk.
 All the prisoners were at work except Josephine, a German Catholic  who had lost her husband and three children within a short period.
 She was eager to tell me her story.
 A few days after they had died,  she had gone to their graves and covered those of the children with  blankets to keep them warm.
 Someone saw her, decided she was in-  sane, and had her committed to jail.
 It was a spring day when she  was let out on parole.
 She was pleased and happy.
 A hurdy-gurdy  was playing her favorite tune, Just As the Sun Went Down.
 She paid  the man a nickel to play it over, then another, and another, and an-  other.
 The policeman at the corner, hearing it, looked her over and  arrested her again.
 During her next ten days in prison she nursed a  grievance against this injustice and, as soon as she came out, had  several drinks, went after the policeman, scratched his face, and tore  his buttons off.
 Thereafter, Josephine drank whenever she could, and each time  she drank she fought, and, since she had developed a complex against  policemen, she landed back in jail in short order ; she had been in some  seventy times.
 I found Josephine a kind, big-hearted person, and, though erratic,  fairly intelligent.
 She had a terrible tongue and a terrible temper,  and undoubtedly had periods when she was of unsound mind.
 Most  people were frightened of her.
 She was supposed to put curses on her enemies, and they came true.
 Once a person who had treated her badly and been cursed in conse-  quence had promptly contracted pneumonia and died.
 At another time  the matron of a certain jail had kept her three weeks in a dark cell  on bread and water.
 After the fifth day, when bread was handed  into the hole, she said it tasted like cake it was so sweet.
 From the  two or three cups of water daily, she had to assuage her thirst, wash  her face, and clean her teeth.
 When she came out of this Stygian  place she could scarcely see, but she managed to distinguish the matron  sufficiently to put the curse of God upon her.
 The next night someone     242 MARGARET SANGER   forgot to close the door of the elevator shaft, and the matron walked  through the open gate, fell to the bottom, and was instantly killed.
 Now, Josephine was let alone.
 In spite of my depression I was intensely interested in Josephine ;  she begged me to help her, and I said I would try.
 The rest of that  afternoon was consumed in this tale of woe until at five o'clock I  began my initiation into the prison routine of hours and meals.
 The  dining room was rilled with long tables and wooden benches.
 No  one had a knife or fork — only a tablespoon, edge blunted so as to be  unserviceable as a weapon.
 Supper consisted of tea and molasses,  stewed dried peaches, and two slices of bread which tasted queer ; it  was said to have saltpeter in it.
 We were locked in an hour later ; lights  were out at nine.
 Bells began ringing at six the next morning, and  the cells were opened at seven.
 For breakfast we had oatmeal with  salt and milk, again two slices of the same bread, and coffee without  sugar.
 Dinner was more bread, a boiled potato with the skin half on,  and a sorry hunk of meat.
 Because of my active tuberculosis the prison doctor soon put me  on what was called a diet.
 This meant I could have crackers and milk  and tea in my cell instead of going to the supper table.
 Due probably  to the influence of the Osborne innovations at Sing Sing the men  at the Queens Penitentiary were better treated than the women.
 Their  food was of higher quality and they could buy tobacco and even  newspapers.
 The sole reading matter available to women were two  Catholic weeklies and the Christian Science Monitor.
 Our only other  news came from the two visitors a month allowed.
 So fine a mesh  screen was placed in the reception room that inmates could with diffi-  culty distinguish, as through a veil, the features of those to whom  they were talking.
 This was a hardship not even imposed at Sing  Sing.
 After morning cell-cleaning we took a fifteen-minute walk in the  yard with our hooded capes over our heads.
 During this cold tramp  the women scanned the ground avidly for butts of cigarettes tossed  away by the men.
 It was tragic to see human beings forced to such  a low level as to dig with their fingers in the frozen earth to retrieve  these mangled stubs.
 Each used to grab her little bit and hide it.
 When the matron went to her lunch we were locked in our cor-     THIS PRISON WHERE I LIVE 243   ridors but not in our cells.
 Ordinarily she took a nap afterwards,  and the girls could usually count on her not being back until three  or perhaps four o'clock.
 This gave them an opportunity to dry their  shreds of tobacco under the radiator, then wrap them in toilet paper  ready for smoking.
 At night when we were all locked in they struck  the steel ribs from their corsets against the stone floor, and thus  ignited pieces of cotton to give them lights.
 I could see tiny glowing  points in the darkness as they puffed away greedily.
 Somehow, with the ingenuity born of necessity, these women also  managed to have smuggled in to them occasional small news items.
 The first day one of the girls approached me and in a stage whisper de-  manded, "Cross your heart and hope to die you won't tell."
 I crossed' my heart and hoped to die.
 She slipped into my hand a short clipping about my trial.
 Appar-  ently others had been keeping up with events, because a few minutes  later Lisa, a little colored girl, called out, "You'se eats, don't yer?"
 A third asked me to explain to them what "sex hygiene" was all  about.
 Accordingly I sought permission of Mrs. Sullivan to be al-  lowed in their corridor during her dinner hour.
 "What for?"
 "The girls want me to tell them about sex hygiene."
 "Ah, gwan wid ye," she laughed.
 "They know bad enough al-  ready."
 Some of the most lovely-looking girls were drug addicts.
 It seemed  monstrous that the State could take such liberties with human lives  as to convict them as criminals and sentence them to as much as three  years for something which should have been considered disease.
 Other women were pickpockets, embezzlers, prostitutes, keepers  of brothels, "Tiffany," or high-class thieves, accomplices of safe  blowers, and a few "transatlantic flyers," who assisted in big hauls  from Paris or London.
 The class snobbishness among the offenders interested me beyond  words.
 No one cared how or where another had been reared, what  kind of family background or education she had; the nature of her  offense was the key to her social position.
 The one who picked pockets  was scorned by the girl who helped herself to pearl or diamond neck-  laces; the shoplifter did not "sell her body."
 244 MARGARET SANGER   The prisoners sometimes slid their arms in mine as we paced  along in the yard.
 One took me to task.
 "I saw you walking with  Gracie.
 You mustn't associate with her."
 "Why not?"
 "Do you know what she's in here for?
 She's a petty thief.
 When-  ever she gets out she rides in street cars and steals money from the  pocketbooks of poor people going to pay their rent, or women com-  ing home with their husbands' wages."
 "And what are you here 'for?"
 "Oh, I steal from the rich; I take only from people who have  jewelry and bank accounts."
 I never did the regular work of cleaning, not even my own cell.
 Nor was I sent into the workshop to sew or to operate the machines  with the others.
 When I asked Mrs. Sullivan why, she replied jollily,  "Oh, you look better over there with a pen in your hand."
 She had fixed up a table to serve as a desk, and there I sat the  entire day with my papers and books, planning ahead and reading  countless letters ; the tenor of all was much like this from Sarah Gold-  stein :   The women here in Brownsville need help very bad.
 Mrs. Sanger  has got put away in the penitentiary for being friends with us, but  she said we was to use her place while she was gone.
 If we can have  a meeting over here in the clinic, I will put a fire in the stove and ask  the women to come Saturday.
 We women here want to find out what the President, the Mayor,  and the Judges and everybody is trying to do.
 First they put Mrs.  Sanger in jail for telling us women how not to have any more children,  and then they get busy for the starve of the ones we've got.
 First  they take the meat and the egg, then the potato, the onion, and the  milk, and now the lentils and the butter, and the children are living  on bread and tea off the tea leaves that is kept cooking on the back  of the stove.
 Honest to God, we ought to call a meeting and do something  about it.
 Part of my time also was devoted to helping some of the girls to  read or to write the two letters a month permitted them.
 I had not  believed that any American-born of sixteen to eighteen years of age  could be illiterate, but there were at least ten.
 THIS PRISON WHERE I LIVE 245   I had been in the penitentiary for several days before I noticed a  tall, erect woman with white hair and a face which obviously did not  belong there ; I had never seen her in the yard or at table.
 Although  she had been over nine months sharing the other prisoners' food and  working beside them she had not become one of them.
 Because of  her aloofness I found it hard to make her acquaintance, but ultimately  "the Duchess," as she was called, told me her story.
 After having been a teacher for fifteen years, she had married a  minister who lived on a pension.
 They stayed in hotels, always spend-  ing more than their income, while he steadily drew on his insurance  money.
 His sudden death left her practically penniless.
 Due to her  age and the fact she had not taught for so long her application for  a teacher's job was refused.
 She continued in the hotel until she had  used up everything and was forced to move.
 Thereafter, she went  from hotel to hotel, fleeing each time angry looks and bills; finally  she was arrested and given an indeterminate sentence of from one  to three years.
 Her constant brooding over her past was not preparing her for  any future.
 I suggested she might keep her hand in by instructing  the illiterate girls, and asked J.J., my only visitor, to have his friend  William Spinney send some primers and lower grade text-books from  Henry Holt and Company where he worked; this was done free of  charge.
 The Duchess was contentedly happy from the day she began  teaching again.
 In the desire to learn whether the girls' background might not be  related to the causes of their imprisonment, I asked Warden McCann  whether I could see the records, especially as to the size of the families  from which they came.
 He said it was against the rules, but he was  willing to give me such facts separately, assuring me I was going  to be surprised and disappointed.
 I was.
 When I inquired, "How many brothers and sisters does Rosie  have?"
 the answer was, "None."
 "And Marie?"
 "She had a brother, but he's dead."
 It appeared from the entries that all these women had been single  children or, if a brother or sister had been born, he or she no longer  survived.
 This was difficult to believe, but I had to accept it at first.
 246 MARGARET SANGER   However, when I became better acquainted with the old-timers  they told me quite a different history.
 The registers were merely evi-  dence of the unwritten rule among them to keep their families out  of it.
 The madam of a house of assignation was putting her daughter  of seventeen through a fashionable boarding school.
 To prevent the  child from knowing anything about her occupation she wrote letters,  sent them West, where she was supposed to be traveling, and had them  redirected to the school.
 Many other prisoners were mothers also,  and the scheming and planning to hide the painful knowledge of their  whereabouts was worthy of the deepest admiration.
 One after another admitted she had given false statements to save  her relatives from disgrace or constant annoyance by the police.
 The  result of a poll of the thirty-one in our corridor showed an average  of seven children to each girl's family.
 I was always interested to know why the pretty ones were there.
 Frances, one of the loveliest, had a radiant color, rosebud mouth,  and the most innocent eyes; she even managed to wear her apron  with a Gallic chic.
 It did not seem possible she could have committed  a crime, but she turned out to be one of the rogues who made a prac-  tice of frequenting gatherings where careless people offered opportu-  nities to pickpockets.
 She told me how she, with two other girls, had  once gone to an up-State fair.
 After making a grand haul of watches  and purses and anything they could lay their hands upon, her two com-  panions said, "We've got enough.
 We're clearing out."
 But Frances had spotted an easy-looking wallet.
 It was not quite  easy enough.
 Unfortunately for her the owner shouted, "Somebody's  stolen my money!"
 A bystander pointed, "She did it.
 I've been in three places today  where things have been lost, and she's been there every time."
 Other people gathered round.
 Frances began to cry.
 Because the  friends of the man who had been robbed and he himself insisted she  must be arrested the police were called.
 Frances continued to weep until several lusty young farmers were  ready to defy her accusers.
 How could they say such things about  such a sweet girl!
 It looked as though a fight were imminent, and     THIS PRISON WHERE I LIVE 247   she hoped to slip away during the excitement.
 But the police arrived  too soon and took her to the station.
 They found nothing on her;  somehow she had rid herself of the wallet.
 Frances' new-found allies were ready to go her bail, but it so hap-  pened that a police chief from a neighboring town who had come  to the fair for the express purpose of identifying possible petty crimi-  nals recognized her from his sheaf of photographs of habitual offend-  ers.
 He said to her supporters, "Boys, you're crazy.
 This girl's as  crooked as a snake.
 Here's her picture !"
 "Why, you're crazy yourself !
 Your girl's a blonde, and this one's  dark."
 The chief snatched at Frances' hair, and off came her wig.
 As she  told me this great joke on herself she shook with merriment.
 But this was not the end of the story.
 The station captain had been  influenced by her attractiveness and, since the wallet had not actually  been discovered on her, wanted to let her off.
 He made a compromise.
 "I'm going to give you a ticket to Montreal.
 You either go to jail  or take it and get out."
 She accepted the ticket, but left the train at a near-by point and  rejoined her friends at another fair.
 There, wearing a different cos-  tume, she continued her trade.
 Although to look at her ingenuous  face I could hardly believe it, pitting her wits against the police was  to her a type of game.
 Gertrude had been equally clever.
 She was of German origin, very  stylish, moving in good circles when not in prison.
 She had learned  that the officers of the submarine, Deutschland, which had just  crossed the ocean, were to be entertained at a party.
 Having secured  an invitation, she devoted herself to a lieutenant who, she had dis-  covered, was carrying seven hundred dollars in his pocket.
 When  the gathering broke up she took him back to his hotel in her car,  suggesting they stop at a night club en route.
 There she put a drug  in his glass.
 It took a bit of time to work, but after they had started  on again he fell asleep.
 She gave five dollars to the doorman to take  him to his room, saying he had drunk a bit too much, and then went  home.
 At seven the following morning, while Gertrude and her little girl     248 MARGARET SANGER   were still in bed, the police raided her apartment.
 They could unearth  nothing except what she could honestly account for.
 Her effects were  turned upside down, and still no money was to be found.
 "Then how could they send you to jail?"
 I queried.
 "You didn't  take it, did you ?"
 "Of course I did," she asserted, looking at me as if I were dull-  witted.
 "They couldn't pin it on me, that's all."
 Even though Gertrude had been brighter than the police, she, like  many of the others, had been convicted on her past record and the  present suspicious circumstances.
 Josephine was another case in point.
 After I myself had been re-  leased I had her paroled under her own recognizance and secured a  place for her as chambermaid in a hotel.
 Fate so arranged that in  the very first room she entered on her first morning's work she was  confronted with the corpse of a man who had died in his bed during  the night.
 She rushed out immediately, got drunk, and went directly  back to jail again.
 The resentment thus engendered in these caged women was like  a strong, glowing flame, of a depth that I scarcely had believed pos-  sible.
 The shivers ran up and down my back when I heard the details  of their unguided and loveless childhoods, which explained in large  part the curious manner in which their minds worked.
 They thought  only in terms of getting away with their crimes, of beating the system  — although their presence here was proof that it could not be beaten.
 Three of the younger girls, too old for Bedford Reformatory but  almost too young for the penitentiary, definitely shocked me with  their plans for wrong-doing without being apprehended.
 They asked  me about my case.
 "Was it true the judge gave you a chance not to  go to jail if you'd promise not to break the law?"
 "Yes."
 "Well, why didn't you do it?"
 "I couldn't promise that."
 "But you didn't have to keep your promise!"
 The ever-present bitterness arose, not from being caught in the  act, but from being convicted without having been, according to their  own belief, proved guilty.
 It was the woeful mental attitude rather  than the actual physical condition of their imprisonment which so     THIS PRISON WHERE I LIVE 249   appalled me.
 Not one of them intended to go straight.
 They hated the  police who were drawing good salaries from the State and getting  credit for putting them in jail ; yet all the time they had been smarter.
 This sounds inconsistent, but it was their peculiar psychological twist.
 I talked it over later with several judges to whom it was rather  a new point of view.
 Among other cases I cited that of a brothel  keeper who conducted her house as a club and did it so carefully that  no evidence could be obtained against her.
 Therefore, a detective had  put opium in the plumbing and she had been sentenced on a narcotic  charge, although it was well known this was not her offense.
 "The prisoners were guilty, weren't they?"
 said one of the judges.
 "You know that, don't you?"
 "Yes," I rejoined, "but to my mind that doesn't end the State's  responsibility.
 It seems to me your detectives should be more intel-  ligent than the criminals they are set to catch."
 The girls at Queens Penitentiary were unaware they were entitled  to bring a far more serious charge against society than clumsy and  inept police methods.
 I have never since visited an institution for  juvenile offenders without thinking how stupid people are not to  recognize that most adolescents are subjected to temptation on some  occasion or other; that anyone, in an emotional fragment of time,  when young and when the consequences are not clear, may do some  forbidden thing.
 More often than not it is merely incidental, and in  no way warrants a life of penance.
 The only brutal treatment I received was during the last two hours.
 Since my fingerprints had not been taken on arrival, Warden McCann  first tried to talk me into compliance.
 His argument that all prisoners'  prints must be on file, that not having them was unheard of, got us  nowhere.
 I refused to submit, even though it postponed my release.
 He then turned me over to two keepers.
 One held me, the other strug-  gled with my arms, trying to force my fingers down on the inkpad.
 I  do not know from what source I drew my physical strength, but I  managed to prevent my hands from touching it.
 My arms were bruised  and I was weak and exhausted when an officer at headquarters, where  J. J. was protesting against the delay, telephoned an order to discharge  me without the usual ceremony.
 March 6, 191 7, dawned a bitter, stinging morning.
 Through the     25O MARGARET SANGER   metal doors I stepped, and the tingling air beat against my face.
 No  other experience in my life has been like that.
 Gathered in front were  my old friends who had frozen through the two hours waiting to  celebrate "Margaret's coming out party."
 They lifted their voices in  the Marseillaise.
 Behind them at the upper windows were my new  friends, the women with whom I had spent the month, and they too  were singing.
 Something choked me.
 Something still chokes me when-  ever I hear that triumphant music and ringing words, "Ye sons of  freedom wake to glory !"
 I plunged down the stairs and into the car which stood ready for  me, and we swept out of the yard towards my apartment.
 At the en-  trance were Vito, the coal man, and his wife, beaming and proudly  pointing to the blazing fire they had made on the hearth to welcome  me home.
 Chapter Twenty     A STOUT HEART TO A STEEP HILL     "When a thing ceases to be a subject of controversy, it ceases  to be a subject of interest."
 WILLIAM HAZLITT     -\\\ -VA -&gt;\&gt; .&gt;Vl -Vft -Vft -Vft -Vft -X\V ,\\&gt; -&gt;V\ -VV\ -NVS fff, fff, fff- fff, ftf, f t&gt;f - ///, tft.
 fff .
 ft*, /ft .
 iff , w .
 ttw Hi 'tit Hi Hi 'Hi 'tit Hi 'Hi Hi tit tii /it VW VW VW wr VSSr WSr V\\ VvV IW VSS?
 VV\* V\V' VW   THE noisy clamor of the world could not reach me through thick  stone walls ; prison had been a quiet interim for reflection, for  assembling past experiences and preparing for the future.
 The tem-  pestuous season of agitation — courts and jails and shrieking and  thumbing-the-nose — should now end.
 Heretofore there had been much  notoriety and but little understanding.
 The next three steps were to  be: first, education; then, organization; and, finally, legislation.
 All  were clearly differentiated, though they necessarily overlapped to a  certain extent.
 I based my program on the existence in the country of a forceful  sentiment which, if co-ordinated, could become powerful enough to  change laws.
 Horses wildly careering around a pasture have as much  -strength as when harnessed to a plow, but only in the latter case can  the strength be measured and turned to some useful purpose.
 The pub-  lic had to be educated before it could be organized and before the laws  could be changed as a result of that organization.
 I set myself to the  task.
 It was to be a long one, because the press did not want articles  stating the facts of birth control ; they wanted news,, and to them news  still consisted of fights, police, arrests, controversy.
 One of the early essays in education was a moving picture drama-  tizing the grim and woeful life of the East Side.
 Both Blossom and I  believed it would have value, and I continue to be of the same mind.
 He had not approved of the clinic and had declined to have anything  to do with it, but was eager to join me in capitalizing on the ensuing   251     252 MARGARET SANGER   publicity.
 Together we wrote a scenario of sorts, concluding with the  trial.
 Although I had long since lost faith in my abilities as an actress,  I played the part of the nurse, and an associate of Blossom's financed  its production.
 But before it could appear Commissioner of Licenses  George H. Bell ordered it suppressed.
 To prove the film mirrored conditions which called for birth con-  trol, we gave a private showing at a theater, inviting some two hundred  people concerned with social welfare.
 All agreed the public should see  it, and signed a letter to that effect.
 Justice Nathan Bijur issued an  injunction against interfering with its presentation.
 The moving pic-  ture theaters, however, fearful lest the breath of censure wither their  profits, were too timid to take advantage of this.
 Of infinitely greater and more lasting significance than this venture  was the Birth Control Review, which, from 191 7 to 1921, was the  spearhead in the educational stage.
 It could introduce a quieter and  more scientific tone, and also enable me to keep in touch with people  everywhere whose interest had already been evoked.
 Emotion was not  enough; ideas were not enough; facts were what we needed so that  leaders of opinion who were articulate and willing to speak out might  have authoritative data to back them up.
 The first issue of the Review, prepared beforehand, had come out  in February, 191 7, while I was in the penitentiary.
 It was not a very  good magazine then ; it had few contributors and no editorial policy.
 Anyone — sculptor, spiritualist, cartoonist, poet, free lances — could ex-  press himself here ; the pages were open to all.
 In some ways it was  reminiscent of the old days of the Woman Rebel, when everybody  used to lend a hand — always with this vital difference, that we held  strictly to education instead of agitation.
 I had learned a little editorial  knowledge from my previous magazine efforts and now obtained a  more professional touch from the newspaper men and women who  gradually came in, among them William E. Williams, formerly of the  Kansas City Star, Walter A. Roberts, who later published the few  issues of the American Parade, and Rob Parker, editor and make-up  man.
 Among the associates were Jessie Ashley, Mary Knoblauch, and  Agnes Smedley.
 That extraordinarily shy and mysterious woman, Agnes Smedley,  had been born in a covered wagon of squatter parents, and, though she     A STOUT HEART TO A STEEP HILL 253   had become a teacher in the California public schools, her early habits  of thought remained with her ; she was consistently for the under dog.
 The British Government had suspected her of connection with the  seditious activities of a group of Hindu students and persuaded the  Federal authorities to investigate.
 All they had been able to find on  which to charge her were a few copies of Family Limitation.
 This  brought her within our province, and when she was arraigned in New  York John Haynes Holmes procured her ten-thousand-dollar bail.
 On this and other occasions John Haynes Holmes, a speaker second  to none, brought the convincing force of his arguments and mind to  our aid.
 By the shape of his head and the honesty of his eyes you could  recognize the practical idealist in this Unitarian minister.
 He never  straddled issues.
 During the War he said if one flag were to be hung  out his church windows, then those of all nations should be flown;  no peoples were enemies of his.
 Two numbers of the Review had appeared when the United States  entered the War and Blossom and I fell out.
 He was an ardent Franco-  phile and, like most masculine members of the intelligentsia, threw in  his lot with the Allies.
 I wrote a pacifist editorial ; he refused to run  it and resigned.
 To Blossom, as to so many others, pacifism was automatically la-  beled pro-Germanism, on the old theory that "he who is not for me  is against me."
 I had already seen in Europe what propaganda could  do to build up a war spirit, and prayed every morning when I awoke  that I could keep my head clear and cool.
 I had heard the plaintive  pleas of French mothers, but had talked also with German mothers.
 In the hearts of none had there been hatred or desire for their sons  to kill other sons.
 I knew what I thought about the War ; it was so outrageous I would  not be mixed up in it.
 I still believe it was not only a dreadful thing  in itself — a slaughter and waste of human life — but, even more dis-  astrous, it exterminated those who ought now to be ruling our na-  tional destinies according to the pre- War liberality of thought in which  they had been reared.
 We started at that time to walk backwards in-  stead of forwards, and have retreated steadily ever since.
 A fear of     254 MARGARET SANGER   expressing opinions which then began to seep in has gradually helped  to impose censorship and further intolerance.
 I was neither pro-Ally nor pro-German but, using common sense,  was distressed at seeing German achievements torn into shreds.
 In-  telligence in Germany had been focused on all fronts; she had the  lowest illiteracy of any country and had invested heavily in mass edu-  cation from which the rest of the world was benefiting at little cost.
 She had offered the best training for graduate students in medicine ;  foreign travel had been accelerated by German linguists; commerce  had been able to carry on international contacts through German inter-  preters ; any foreign industry which had needed technical advice had  usually employed a German scientist, engineer, or chemist who knew  how to do his job and do it well.
 Germany could not continue this  policy without wanting to receive some tangible return.
 I was convinced the primary cause of this war lay in the terrific  pressure of population in Germany.
 To be sure, her birth rate had  recently begun to decline, but her death rate, particularly infant mor-  tality, had, through applied medical science, likewise been brought  far down.
 The German Government had to do something about the  increase of her people.
 Underneath her rampant militarism, under-  neath her demand for colonies was this drivings economic force.
 She  could hold no more, and had to burst her bounds.
 Blossom's defection was one of the heart-breaking things that can  creep into any endeavor, even the most idealistic.
 I have seen so many  young crusaders come galloping to show me the way, joining the  procession and blowing horns for "The Cause," panting with en-  thusiasm to reform the world, willing to teach me how to put the  movement on a "social" or "sound practical and economic" basis.
 They were going to get vast contributions so that money would roll  unceasingly into our coffers.
 But if they lacked the necessary patience  and forbearance, or were there for personal aggrandizement, they  became discouraged at the first show of thorny, disagreeable ob-  stacles, retreating or deserting rather than fighting through.
 In the birth control movement supporters have come and gone.
 When they remained they found work, work, work, and little recog-  nition, reward, or gratitude.
 Those who desired honor or recompense,     A STOUT HEART TO A STEEP HILL 255   or who measured their interest by this yardstick, are no longer here.
 It is no place for anything except the boundless love of giving.
 Blos-  som was the first illustration to me that the ones to whom authority  is handed over are likely to expand and explode unless they have self-  lessly dedicated themselves.
 .Now, I believe the three chief tests to character are sudden power, .j  sudden wealtlj, and sudden publicity.
 Few can stand the latter ; nothing  goes to the head with more violence.
 Seeing this all around me, I did  not subscribe to a clipping bureau until it seemed necessary for his-  torical purposes.
 I did not even read the papers when unsought ad-  vertisement was great, remembering that this could be but a nine  days' wonder.
 Furthermore, news items were often distracting be-  cause the facts were constantly embroidered just to make a good story,  to paint a situation according to the policy of the paper, or because  they reflected the inhibitions of the reporters.
 Hours could have been  entirely given over to denials and contradictions.
 In the midst of any emergency such as a police raid or the stopping  of a meeting my own emotions generally kept an even tenor ; they did  not go hopping up and down like a temperature.
 A nurse cannot afford  to lose her head, and the control I had won in that training helped  me, as did also my father's philosophy, "Since all things change, this  too will pass."
 Consequently, during this feverish period, neither public praise nor  public blame affected me very much, although the type of criticism  that came from friends was different.
 Just because they were friends  and I wanted them to understand, I was unhappy if they did not.
 But,  since persons one likes can have great influence and friendships take  time, I refrained from making many new ones.
 Nevertheless, those  I had then are as good today; when we meet we pick up the threads  where we dropped them.
 The War halted the progress of the birth control movement tem-  porarily.
 The groups that had before been active now found new in-  terests.
 The radicals were convulsed and their own ranks torn in two  by the opposition to conscription.
 Influenza swept over the world and  in its passage took off many of our old companions.
 Governor Whit-  man's promised commission blew up.
 One bright bugle sounded when     256 MARGARET SANGER   I learned that the section on venereal disease in What Every Girl  Should Know, which had once been banned in the New York Call and  for which Fania had been fined, was now, officially but without credit,  reprinted and distributed among the soldiers going into cantonments  and abroad.
 At home all felt there was little to do but wait until people  came back to their senses ; the Review was the only forward step I  could take at the time.
 Late in 191 7 a new recruit was enlisted.
 Nobody ever knew Kitty  Marion's true name.
 She had been born in Westphalia, Germany, and  when she was fifteen her father had whipped her once too often and  she had run away to England, where eventually she had headed a turn  at a music hall.
 The London slums had aroused Kitty's social conscience, and she  had abandoned her own career to enroll with Mrs. Pankhurst in the  suffrage crusade, becoming one of the most determined of her fol-  lowers.
 When put in jail she set fire to her cell, chewed a hole in her  mattress, broke the window, and upon being released threw bricks  at Newcastle Post Office.
 Seven times she went to prison, enduring  four hunger strikes and two hundred and thirty-two compulsory feed-  ings, biting the hand that forcibly fed her.
 Since it was distasteful to  the Government to have any suffragette die in prison, Kitty, under the  so-called Cat-and-Mouse Act, was once released to a nursing home  until she should have strength enough to return to confinement.
 Friends  visited her there, exchanged clothes with her, and she escaped.
 On an-  other occasion the Bishop of London personally begged her to give up  her struggle.
 At the outbreak of war, the Pankhurst forces hustled her  over to America rather than have her run the almost certain risk of  deportation or internment.
 Selling The Suffragette on the streets of London had been part of  the initiation which duchesses and countesses and other noble aux-  iliaries to the Pankhurst cause had had to undergo.
 Kitty had stood  side by side with them.
 Since we had so experienced a veteran ready  for service we began to offer the Review on the sidewalks of New  York.
 Our more sober supporters objected because they considered it  undignified.
 But men and women from here, there, and everywhere  passed through the commercial centers of New York, and this was a  real means of reaching them.
 A STOUT HEART TO A STEEP HILL 257   All of us took a hand, but Kitty was the only one who stood the test  of years.
 Strong, stoutish, tow-headed, her blue eyes bright and keen  in spite of being well on in her fifties, she became a familiar sight.
 Morning, afternoon, and until midnight — workdays, Sundays, and  holidays — through storms of winter and summer, she tried every  street corner from Macy's to the Grand Central Terminal.
 But her  favorite stand was Seventh Avenue and Forty-second Street, right  at Times Square.
 In her own words she was enjoying "the most fas-  cinating, the most comic, the most tragic, living, breathing movie in  the world."
 Many people still think I must be Kitty Marion.
 Everywhere they  say to me, "I saw you twenty years ago outside the Metropolitan  Opera House.
 You've changed so I wouldn't know you."
 Street selling was torture for me, but I sometimes did it for self-  discipline and because only in this way could I have complete knowl-  edge of what I was asking others to do.
 In addition, I learned to realize  what possible irritations Kitty had to encounter.
 Notwithstanding the  insults of the ignorant, the censure of the bigots, she remained good-  humored.
 They said to her, "You ought to be ashamed of yourself,  you ought to be arrested, to be shot, to be in jail, to be hanged !"
 or,  "It's disgraceful, disgusting, scandalous, villainous, criminal, and un-  ladylike !"
 When someone asked, "Have you never heard God's word  to 'be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth' ?"
 Kitty replied,  "They've done that already," and, knowing her Apocrypha as well as  her Bible, retorted in kind, "Does it not say in Ecclesiasticus : 16; I,  'Desire not a multitude of unprofitable children' ?"
 During the War it was astonishing how many men, in and out of  uniform, mistook Birth Control for British Control.
 "We don't want  no British Control here !"
 they exclaimed.
 Kitty would correct them,  "Birth Control," and someone would call, "Oh, that's worse!"
 Who bought the Review?
 A psychological analysis of reactions of  passers-by when they saw the words "birth control" would have been  interesting.
 I never could credit the power those simple words had of  upsetting so many people.
 Their own complexes as to what sex meant     *\     258 MARGARET SANGER   to them appeared to govern them.
 Many were disappointed at its staid-  ness ; some were highly indignant, others highly amused, regarding it  as a joke ; some bought with the set faces of soldiers going over the top ;  some looked and looked and then strolled on.
 Others walked by only to  return with the money ready, hastily stuff the magazine in their pock-  ets, and move away, trying to seem unconcerned.
 The majority bought  with the utmost seriousness in the hope that it might solve their per-  sonal problems.
 "Jail" was the instant reaction of every new policeman on the beat.
 Kitty, who knew she needed no license, would contest the point with  him while a crowd gathered.
 But few of her arresters were familiar  with the law in the name of which they hauled her off to the station.
 Time and again my night's slumbers were broken to go and bail her  out.
 J.J. was always able to have the case dismissed, but only after it  had been argued and proved in our favor.
 Once Charles Bamberger, the agent provocateur of the Society for  the Suppression of Vice who had brought about Bill Sanger's arrest,  worked much the same ruse on Kitty.
 His society was supposedly de-  signed to promote purity, which was to its members synonymous with  good.
 But in order to do this they induced people to break the law by  appealing to their deepest human sympathies, a form of trickery not  to be condoned by any moral code.
 Bamberger, on repeated visits to Kitty at our office, poignantly de-  scribed the condition of his unfortunate wife whose health depended  absolutely on her getting contraceptive information.
 Anna's sense,  like Fania Mindell's, was unfailing in recognizing such decoys; I  never went against it.
 But in vain did she warn Kitty, who gave him  the information.
 He had her arrested, and she was not allowed to tell  in court the means by which he had obtained his evidence ; she had to  serve a term.
 Kitty's sentence did not have adequate publicity, but  so violent was the war temper, that, in view of her German birth, even  well-disposed newspapers practically ignored it.
 In addition to selling the Review we tried another experiment in  street propaganda.
 During the warm evenings of one summer Kitty,  Helen Todd, and I, often accompanied by George Swazey, a friendly  Englishman, proceeded to the neighborhood of St. Nicholas Avenue     A STOUT HEART TO A STEEP HILL 259   above 125th Street, where many white collar families lived.
 We used  to buy a soapbox at the nearest delicatessen and Helen, who had a  lank, swarthy picturesqueness which attracted attention, mounted it ;  Swazey, standing behind, held aloft an American flag.
 Though not a  soul might be in sight except our little group with its bundles of litera-  ture and Kitty with her Reviews, Helen began in her beautiful voice,  "Ladies and Gentlemen," bowing to the trees, "we welcome you here  tonight."
 When nobody appeared she began again.
 "Ladies and Gentle-  men," and this time one or two strollers usually lingered.
 Imme-  diately we raised our pasteboard banners with "birth control" printed  in black letters.
 She was off in full swing, and in a few minutes we had  our audience.
 We had also accepted almost two thousand  paid-in-advance subscriptions, and had therefore incurred an obliga-  tion to continue the Review for twelve months.
 One May morning when I put my key in the office door and swung  it open, Anna Lifshiz and I stood and gazed at each other.
 Only the  telephone perched forlornly on top of a packing box relieved the bare  and empty room — files, furniture, vouchers, checks, and business rec-  ords were gone.
 We still had to supply the subscribers with nine issues  more, yet we had no equipment and not one cent in the bank account  of the Review.
 It was a challenge.
 We hurried over to Third Avenue and for  twenty dollars refurnished the office.
 The loss of the contributors'  cards, however, was irreparable.
 I could never, in spite of my best  efforts, recover either them or the missing funds.
 The strain to finance the Review was so great that after June no  more issues came out until December — the printer trusted us as far  as he was able from month to month.
 Often the bank account was  down to the last hundred dollars, just enough to hold it open.
 Yet it  might be necessary to mail letters'; the call might be urgent.
 I was  hesitant to spend that last amount, but I believed faith could bring  anything to realization.
 Always we cleaned the slate at the end of the year.
 This was one of the periods of getting roots in and waiting for the  organism to grow, of quiescence before the new beginning and quick-  ening.
 I kept going, conscious that with every act I was progressing in  accord with a universal law of evolution — moral evolution but evolu-  tion just the same.
 This belief seemed at times to force locked doors.
 It enabled me to  dictate hundreds of letters, to interview dozens of people, to debate,  or to lecture, all in twenty- four hours.
 Day after day I attended parlor  meetings, night after night open forums, returning home too tired to  eat, too excited to sleep.
 Frequently at seven in the morning the tele-  phone started ringing ; somebody wanted to catch me before I left the  house.
 For the purpose of having a more solid and substantial basis on  which to operate the Review, the New York Women's Publishing  Company was incorporated in May, 19 18; shares were sold at ten  dollars each.
 The women who gave both monetary and moral support  were the wives of business men who advised them how to conduct  this organization in the proper fashion.
 Each month Mary Knoblauch  opened her charming apartment for the regular meetings any cor-  poration was required to hold.
 The movement can never be disassociated in my mind from Frances  Ackermann, who, at the suggestion of Mabel Spinney of Greenwich  House, came to us as Treasurer.
 She was exceptionally able and was  soon one of our bulwarks, remaining with us eleven years.
 Her family  was wrapped up in orthodoxy — church and Wall Street and the status  quo in politics — but Frances' interests were much broader, and she was  not content to lead the usual type of life ordained by her social and  financial standing.
 Tall, very thin, wearing her clothes with an air, Frances was one of  the finest persons I have ever known.
 To her, fair play amounted to a  religion ; she was so highly sensitive that she lay awake at night after  merely reading of an injustice done to anybody.
 To hundreds of con-  scientious objectors who were incarcerated during the War because  of pacifist or strike activities she sent cigarette money, magazines,  stationery — always anonymously — assisting their families and sug-     A STOUT HEART TO A STEEP HILL 26 1   gesting plans for their own futures.
 Her death was not only a blow  to us but a blow to any endeavor that was seeking understanding.
 Many lifers who depended on her for brightening luxuries must now  wonder what has become of her.
 In 1920 Anne Kennedy came to help boost the circulation of the  Review and gain further financial aid for it.
 She, was a Calif ornian  with wide club experience, and had two children.
 Fair, in her thir-  ties, cheerful, and a good mixer, she was most maternal-looking  with her soft gray hair and sweet face ; you felt you could lay your  head on her bosom and tell her the story of your life.
 The incorporation had heralded a new trend wherein we could  have a recognized policy.
 When the Review had first been started I had  had to beg authors to write.
 Free speech was their favorite theme,  and their pieces were inferior, but they were the only things I could  fall back upon.
 I used to ask possible contributors, "Don't you agree  that these poor mothers should have no more babies ?"
 "Of course, but where's there any article in that?"
 Then I had to suggest ideas, show them how to link these up  with larger sociological aspects, until they began to cast into the  arena legal, medical, eugenic compositions.
 The material on free  speech continued to come in, but we did not need to print it any longer.
 Incidentally, we now secured second-class mailing privileges.
 Soon  afterwards I happened to be talking to a cousin who worked in the  Post Office, a very young boy in his early twenties, who kept assailing  me with questions about the Review.
 I could not understand his un-  precedented interest, and asked, "Why are you so curious ?"
 "Well, I'm the official reader.
 It'll save my having to wade through  every issue if you'll tell me ahead of time just what your policy's  going to be."
 "Do you make the decisions?"
 "That's my job.
 If any seem objectionable I send them on to Wash-  ington."
 I was horrified to find this adolescent in a position which permitted  him to pass judgment on such serious matters, but I was able to re-  assure him ; the course we had adopted would in no way interfere with  retaining our second-class mailing privileges.
 Many of the buyers of the Review had been disappointed because     262 MARGARET SANGER   it contained no practical information.
 "I have your magazine.
 All in  there is true but what I want to know is how not to have another baby  next year."
 Thousands of letters were sent out explaining that the  Review could not print birth control information.
 Nevertheless, some  of the appeals, particularly from women who lived on lonely, remote  farms, were so heart-rending that I simply had to furnish them copies  of Family Limitation, though urging them to go to their physicians.
 Every once in a while I had a telephone message to come down to  the Post Office at an appointed hour.
 I did so, wondering and un-  certain.
 Was the interview to be about the Review, Family Limitation,  or what ?
 The official in the legal department whom I always saw, fatherly  though not old, used to say, "Now, Mrs. Sanger, you're still violating  the law by sending your pamphlet through the mails.
 If you keep this  up they'll put you in jail again."
 I objected, "The Government and I had this out years ago.
 The  Federal case was dismissed."
 "It never can be settled while we get these protests."
 To prove the Post Office was not having such an easy time of it, he  pulled open a drawer and inside was a little pile of pamphlets and  letters from religious fanatics, self -constituted moralists of one kind  or another, women as well as men, who had received their copies and  then complained.
 He showed me envelopes addressed to the Governor  of New York, to the President of the United States.
 I studied the  handwriting to see whether I could recognize it as identical with any  that had come to me.
 Perhaps the postmark was Wichita, Kansas;  there could not be many from a town of that size, and presently I re-  membered the request.
 It was a shattering thing to see that drawer.
 I had been earnestly trying to aid despairing mothers, and had been  betrayed.
 "Here's this proof against you, Mrs. Sanger.
 What are you going  to do about it?"
 "Nothing.
 As long as these women ask me to help them, I'm going  to do so."
 I intended to continue to the limit of my resources whether or not  I had help from those whom I had originally counted upon.
 In order  to make women's clubs feel the need as I did I had often gone miles     A STOUT HEART TO A STEEP HILL 263   at my own expense to present a topic that had taken me years to  prepare and then had had to express it to the accompaniment of the  clatter of dishes or the stirring of spoons in after-dinner coffees.
 The  members had seemed to have their minds on hot rolls or had been  fidgeting to get on to the bridge tables.
 Sometimes a few, who had  come to dabble in sentimentality, had experienced a pleasant emotional  response, "Oh, the poor things," but that had been as far as it had  gone.
 The continued apathy of such organizations disappointed me in-  tensely ; the desire to build up a structure appeared to dominate them  all.
 I had lost faith in their sincerity, respect for their courage, and at  this time had no reason to anticipate assistance from them.
 To upbraid,  accuse, or censure them for not doing what I had hoped was useless,  but I resolved that I was never again going to talk to them, and, when  it seemed necessary that they be addressed, I sent others to do it.
 My nervousness ahead of lectures continued to be akin to illness.
 All through the years it has been like a nightmare even to think of a  pending speech.
 I promised enthusiastically to go here or there, and  then tried to forget it.
 The morning it was to be delivered I awakened  with a panicky feeling which grew into a sort of terror if I allowed  myself to dwell on it.
 It was fatal to eat before a meeting.
 Some people can keep an audience rocking with laughter and yet  get over a message.
 But I cannot.
 Seldom do my hearers have any-  thing merry from me.
 Advisers often say, "Lighten up your subject."
 I have always resented this ; I am the protagonist of women who have  nothing to laugh at.
 Heywood Broun once remarked that I had no sense of humor.
 I  was surprised at him, but I could understand his statement in a way ;  he had been at only a few meetings as chairman and I had been seri-  ous to the point of deadliness, purposely bringing forth laborious facts  and dramatic statistics.
 I was grasping at an opportunity to reach his  audience because, whenever he was moved by anything deeply, he  wrote a story in his column which by reason of its effective irony  and smooth prose swayed others to the same extent.
 I have had much fun, although it may have penetrated only to the  intimate circle of friends.
 Once after giving what I thought was a  very up-to-date, spirited talk at the Waldorf-Astoria, a dear old lady,     264 MARGARET SANGER   at least in her middle eighties, tottered towards me with the aid of a  cane and in trembling voice quavered, "I have traveled across the  country to hear you speak, Miss Sangster.
 My mother used to read  your poems to me when I was a little girl, and I feel this is a great  day for me to be able to clasp your hand."
 She had confused me with  the poetess, Margaret E. Sangster, who in the mid-Nineteenth Century  had been a regular contributor to religious magazines.
 L Inevitably I have been constantly torn between my compulsion to do  this work and a haunting feeling that I was robbing my children of  time to which they were entitled.
 Back in 19 13 I had had some vague  notion of being able to spend all my summers with them at Province-  town.
 That visionary hope had been immediately dissipated because  too many painters began to discover it and the place became littered  with easels and smocks.
 Gene O'Neill's plays were being produced on  the wharf opposite Mary Heaton Vorse's house, and these brought  many more people.
 I wanted to get away even further, and so did Jack  Reed, who had also sought sanctuary there.
 A real estate agent took  him to near-by Truro where the feet of New Yorkers had not yet trod,  and I was invited to come along.
 We saw a little house on a little hill,  one of the most ancient in the village.
 Below it the Pamet River wound  like a silver ribbon to the ocean.
 An old sea captain had squared and  smoothed and fitted the timbers, brought them up from the Carolinas  in a sailing vessel, and fastened them tightly together with wooden  pegs.
 The kitchen was bright and warm, and seemed as though many  cookies and pies had been baked in it.
 Jack bought the cottage, but he was never able to live there.
 As a  staff correspondent of the Metropolitan Magazine he was dashing  from the Colorado Fuel and Iron strike to the European War and  back again to New York.
 In 191 7, knowing I, too, had looked at it  with longing eyes, he asked whether I would like to buy it;Jie was  starting for Russia the next day and had to have ready money.
 By a  lucky chance I had just received a check for a thousand dollars in pay-  ment for some Chicago lectures.
 We exchanged check and deed.
 He  left the next day for the land of promise whither Bill Haywood, his  friend, had already gone and whence neither was to return.
 Big Bill, who had steadily advocated resistance to conscription, had  been arrested and freed on bail furnished by Jessie Ashley.
 She had     A STOUT HEART TO A STEEP HILL 265   forfeited it gladly to have him safely out of the country.
 I had had a  long talk with him before he had made up his mind definitely to leave.
 The conversation brought back to me the picture of the times he and  I had walked up and down the Cape Cod sands and he had given me  such good counsel about not jeopardizing the happiness of the children.
 Those who had opposed Bill for his "hands in the pocket" advice  at the Paterson strike were the same who were opposing his jumping  his bail.
 Since the day we had together visited the C.G.T.
 meetings in  Paris, Bill had come to see the virtues of expediency ; that, rather than  languish in jail where he could accomplish no useful purpose, a revolu-  tionary should, if he could, exile himself.
 "He who fights and runs  away, will live to fight another day."
 This, according to the American  idea, was cowardice — you should stay and be a martyr.
 But to Bill  it was now merely shortsighted.
 He had concluded that the average  worker when he went in for rioting and hand-to-hand combat was  beaten before he had begun.
 He realized the workers had been split by  the War ; they had not united and stood up against conscription with  any backbone.
 They could not as yet be depended upon as a force, but  some day he hoped to return and reorganize them.
 Truro provided the children with three carefree months every  summer in what still seems to me one of the most beautiful spots in the  world.
 For several years I hung on to this dream of being with them  constantly, but it was only a dream.
 I used to go down to open the  house and perhaps snatch a week or so there before being obliged to  hurry back, but father and my sister Nan were good foster-parents.
 This house was eventually to burn as had the one in Hastings ; fate  seemed to decree I should not be tempted to slip back into peaceful  domesticity.
 Nor did I have all those hoped for years of watching the boys  grow from one stage to another.
 I had had to analyze the situation  — either to keep them at home under the supervision of servants who  might perhaps be incompetent, and to have no more than the pleas-  ure of seeing them safely to bed, or else to sacrifice my maternal  feelings and put them in country schools directed by capable masters  where they could lead a healthy, regular life.
 Having come to this latter  decision I sent them off fairly young, and thereafter could only visit  them over week-ends or on the rare occasions when I was speaking in     266 MARGARET SANGER   the vicinity.
 If the desire to see them grew beyond control, I took the  first train and received the shock of finding them thoroughly contented  in the companionship they had made for themselves ; after the initial  excitement of greeting had passed away they ran off again to their  games.
 At times the homesickness for them seemed too much to bear ; espe-  cially was this true in the Fourteenth Street studio.
 When I came in  late at night the fire was dead in the grate, the book open on the table,  the glove dropped on the floor, the pillow rumpled on the sofa — all the  same — just as I had left them a day, a week, or a month before.
 That  first chill of loneliness was always appalling.
 I wanted, as a child does,  to be like other people ; I wanted to be able to sink gratefully into the  warmth and glow of a loving family welcome.
 The winter of 191 7-18 was particularly hard; the snow drifted  high and lasted long, and it took forced cheer to keep your spirits up.
 Dr. Mary Halton assured me that with ceaseless financial worry, in-  adequate rest, incessant traveling, improper nourishment, I could not  survive long.
 When, therefore, a publisher asked me for a book on  labor problems, I snatched ten-year-old Grant out of school and set  off for California, taking a small place at Coronado where I sat myself  down for three months to write and to get acquainted with my son.
 I loved the sunshine.
 It was a pleasure to be out-of-doors, to have  peace and quiet and the leisure to arrange my thoughts and put them  on paper.
 I had no inclination towards a labor book, but thoroughly  enjoyed letting loose my pent-up feelings on Woman and the New  Race.
 It was good to classify reasons and set them in order.
 My opin-  ions did emerge, and it was a great release.
 I was vividly reminded of prison one day when Grant came home  from the school he was attending, both his eyes pretty dirty-looking.
 I asked him why he had been fighting.
 "I don't want to tell you."
 'Td like to know."
 "Well, this boy told all the fellows my mother'd been in jail."
 "What did you do?"
 "I hit him, and he hit me back.
 He said, 'Your mother's a jailbird,'  and I said, 'She's not.'
 Then another fellow said, 'My mother says  your mother went to jail too.'
 "     A STOUT HEART TO A STEEP HILL 267   Grant had replied, "That wasn't my mother, that was another   Margaret Sanger."
 "How could you say that, Grant?
 You know it wasn't true."
 "Mother," he replied profoundly, "you could never make those   fellows understand."
 Chapter Twenty-one     THUS TO REVISIT     THE event of my visit to London in 1920 was the beginning of  my friendship with H. G. Wells.
 There was no aloofness or  coldness in approaching him, no barriers to break down as with most  Englishmen ; his twinkling eyes were like those of a mischievous boy.
 I was pleased to find he had no beard and no white hair, because-^  seemed to me I had heard of him since I had begun to think at all.
 Wells had ranged every field of knowledge, had dared to invade  the sacrosanct precincts of the historian, the economist, and the scien-  tist and, though a layman in these fields, had used his extraordinary  gifts to interpret the past and present and even prophesy the future;  in novel after novel he had shocked England by championing women's  right to a freer life.
 We in the United States were just beginning to be affected by so-  ciological concepts; only Henry George and Edward Bellamy had  previously opened up this new world of the imagination.
 Now here  was Wells giving a fresh picture of what could be if man had an ideal  system of society that was workable.
 At Columbia Colony he had been  quoted repeatedly.
 On my lecture tour in 19 16 his name had been  on everybody's lips, and he had signed the letter to President Wilson  protesting against the Federal indictment.
 I believed he had influenced  the American intelligentsia more than any other one man.
 268     THUS TO REVISIT 269   People who had never met Wells always thought they knew him  best, especially Londoners.
 I was stopping with three maiden sisters  in Hampstead Gardens, and a great furor arose as soon as it was  known in the household/ that Mrs. Wells had sent me an invitation for  what was to be my first week-end at Easton Glebe in Essex.
 What was  I to wear ?
 Was I going to take the blue net or the flowered chiffon ?
 They were greatly disappointed when I carried only a small bag in  which there was no room for fluffy evening gowns.
 Wells himself was waiting on the platform at Dunmow Station,  and we drove in his little car, called the Pumpkin, to Easton Glebe,  a part of the Warwick Estate on which he held a life lease.
 The former  rectory was built of old stone, ivy-covered ; lovely lawns were spread  around it.
 Early morning tea was served in your room, shoes put out  at night were properly polished, hot water was plentiful for your bath,  and extra pitchers were brought with towels wrapped around carefully  to keep in the steam.
 During the course of the next two days I realized more than ever  before how sensitive H.G.
 was to the slightest intonation.
 To be with  him meant you had to be on the alert every second lest you miss some-  thing of him.
 He could be amusing, witty, sarcastic, brilliant, flirta-  tious, and yet profound at once, all in his thin, small voice, speaking  high up into the roof of his mouth, as do many English, instead of  back in the throat as we do.
 I returned Monday evening about midnight to my room at Hamp-  stead, having spent the day in town seeing people.
 But no sooner had  I closed the door than steps pattered in the hallway and a soft hand  tapped.
 In came the three ladies, hair in braids, warmly and most  modestly swathed in voluminous, white cotton nighties, long-sleeved  and tight around the neck.
 They had stayed wide-awake to hear all  about my week-end.
 I told^them as much as I could remember of the  place and the stimulating fellow guests, one in particular with whom  I had been having an interesting discussion.
 When I had finished the  eldest leaned forward and hesitatingly but loudly whispered, "Did he  try to kiss you ?•"   "What?
 Who?"
 I asked, having in mind the man I had just been  praising.
 "Why — why — don't you know ?"
 27O MARGARET SANGER   "Know what?"
 She looked a little abashed at this, and another voice explained  apologetically, "Sister means that Wells has a magnetic influence over  women !"
 "Was he fascinating?"
 the youngest eagerly took up the catechism.
 For two solid hours I was bombarded with questions; H.G.
 was  the Don Juan of spinsterhood in England.
 That there was a Mrs.  Wells for whom Mr. Wells cared deeply did not matter in the least to  them.
 I wish I could do justice to Jane, as Catherine Wells was affection-  ately called.
 This devoted mother, perfect companion, was the com-  plete helpmate, managing H.G.
 's finances, reading the proofs of his  books, seeing that all editions were up-to-date, letting no publisher  be delinquent in his royalties.
 She did not pretend to be a Feminist ;  she was there to protect him, performing the duties of an English wife  towards her husband and appearing with him so that they might make  a united front to the world.
 The relationship between them was on a  fine plane.
 Although H.G.
 had told me once "the sun would set if.
 anything  ever happened to Jane" I felt that he had never put her adequately  into his books as the great woman she really was ; he was too close to  her.
 After she died, his touching introduction to The Book of Cather-  ine Wells proved that he realized what she had been in his life.
 Jane was always mothering people and looking after their comfort.
 At a later time when I happened to be at Easton Glebe, she was dis-  tressed and anxious that I was taking it for granted I had to have an  ice-pack on my neck every night because my tubercular glands were  bothering me.
 She insisted and insisted something must be done, until  finally my tonsils were removed, the true source of my trouble.
 I owed  this tremendous relief to Jane's interest, which would not let me go  on being sick.
 The gay wit and gift for mimicry were not confined to H.G.
 alone.
 On one of my visits I was shown a new bathroom, and we viewed  solemnly the tiny, almost microscopic, tub.
 Jane was slight and small,  and I was quite sure it was meant for her and not for H.G.
 's rotund  frame.
 She maintained, however, it had been installed for his conven-  ience, and made funny suction noises as though a large and deep well     THUS TO REVISIT 27 1   were being pumped dry.
 I was hilarious, but he, pretending to be  irritated, yet laughing too, growled at her, "What are you trying to  do?
 Make my bathing an international joke?"
 The little things H.G.
 said, many of them jibes at himself, were  always amusing.
 Even more so were the drawings with which he dec-  orated his letters.
 If he did not want to go somewhere he might perhaps  illustrate his reluctance by picturing himself being dragged off, or, if  he desired the absence rather than the presence of a person at a meet-  ing, he would portray him being pushed out unceremoniously.
 These  ingenious caricatures allowed many subtleties which even he would  not like to put into words over his own signature.
 Jane was unsurpassed when it came to charades, and never minded  having the house turned upside down in the search for properties.
 But  the Wells family did not have to depend upon orthodox pastimes ; they  often made up their own.
 H.G.
 had invented a ball game which was  played Sunday mornings in a barn made over into a sort of indoor  court.
 Unlike tennis, many could take part at once and the sport was  so exhausting that when they finished they were usually dripping with  perspiration.
 I did not play; other novices seemed to be doing badly  enough without me.
 If you did not feel up to anything so strenuous,  you could take a short walk through the charming garden which Jane  had so lovingly arranged, or a long one through the woods, by the  lakes, or bordering the streams of the Warwick Estate, of which H.G.
 had free use.
 Every season had its different aspects of beauty.
 Sunday afternoons and evenings were especially merry.
 The at-  mosphere at Easton Glebe was like nothing else, something that does  not exist here, where the elders have their bridge and their conversa-  tion and the young go dancing or to the movies.
 There, all ages mixed  together in fun, in laughter.
 The two sons, Frank and "Gyp," who  were then at Cambridge, might bring from ten to fifteen friends home  for tea, a great function over which Jane so graciously presided.
 The  maids went out after setting the table for supper and preparing cold  meats on the buffet, and the party then took care of itself, everybody  serving everybody else.
 The boys were full of devilment and it was  most uproarious.
 I often wondered how the unexpected arrivals were provided for,  but Jane was a remarkable hostess ; I have known her to have a house-     272 MARGARET SANGER   ful at Easton Glebe for lunch and give a brilliant dinner in London  that same evening.
 Every guest was planned for, no one was ever hud-  dled with another, appropriate games were produced or friends in-  vited who might be interesting or helpful.
 When they were ready to  leave, all were put on the most convenient trains and returned to town  with as little trouble to themselves as possible.
 From 1920 on I never went to England without spending part of  the time with H.G., and many of the most attractive people I met were  at Easton Glebe.
 I always came away enriched by these contacts and  the talks we had together.
 Conversation was a combination of current  topics, science, philosophy, history.
 The English might not have had  the same light flippancy or such a scattered fund of information as the  average American, who usually qualified his statements with, "I read  that — " or "I know someone who — ," but they did speak out of their  own experience.
 Furthermore, they could toss the ball of repartee  back and forth objectively and not become irritated or let creep into  their voices that personal note which implied they had now settled the  whole thing.
 Each one at Easton Glebe had his turn in the spotlight ; it was never  a monologue, which a man in H.G.
 's position might have made it.
 No  subject could be mentioned that he did not have its complete history  and a definite opinion on it as well, including Neo-Malthusianism in  all its implications.
 These week-ends were inspiration and recreation.
 The serious duty  which called me to England was lecturing.
 The Neo-Malthusian  League had few speakers at that time to address women audiences,  and wished me to test out the response to their propaganda.
 English public sentiment on birth control had vastly changed since  I had been there in 191 5, largely because Marie Stopes' book had had  such wide circulation during the after- War period ; her voice had made  articulate the feelings of the millions of unemployed.
 That people  now knew what birth control meant was due in part also to Harold  Cox, one of the finest orators of his generation, who had been the  first to point out that its condemnation by medical men and Anglican  clergy should carry little weight, because the birth rates among them  were lower than those of almost any other classes.
 Notable exceptions  who had come out favorably were Sir James Barr, ex-President of the     THUS TO REVISIT 273   British Medical Association, Dr. C. Killick Millard, Health Officer of  Leicester in the North, Dean Inge of St. Paul's, and the Bishop of  Birmingham, who was Chairman of the English National Birth Rate  Commission ; England was accustomed to clarifying new and con-  troversial subjects, by such bodies, summoning experts to testify.
 Dr. Alice Vickery arranged for me to give a series of talks, many  before lower middle-class workers' wives who belonged to the  Women's Co-operative Guild.
 In different districts of London they  came together, paying their little bit, perhaps sixpence a month, to  listen to speakers, afterwards serving tea and conversing in a friendly  way among themselves.
 Though their economic uncertainty made  them resigned to having ten or twelve children, the fact that the Guild  had just brought out a book describing some of the tragic cases of its  own members and the deaths from over-childbearing helped to pave  the way.
 Of all the slums I visited in trams, on buses, via the Underground,  the one of worst repute at the time was the dockyards section of  Rotherhithe.
 I held a small demonstration clinic there — in a sense the  first of its kind in England.
 The eager women who came, amazingly  ignorant of any possible beauty in marriage, were envious of a few  in the community who, though the fathers were receiving no higher  wages than their own husbands, had had only two or three children  and consequently could afford to send them to the trade school.
 They  themselves were, if not sliding backward, at least no more than hold-  ing their own, but those few families were definitely on the way up in  the social scale.
 And it had all come to pass because Dr. Vickery and  Anne Martin, a friend of hers who had labored there for two decades  as a social worker, had given some contraceptive information about  ten years earlier.
 Although Dr. Vickery had on numerous occasions raised the ques-  tion of birth control before gatherings bent on other matters, it fell to  my lot to discuss it first as a public health issue.
 I was told I might  have three minutes to address a national health Conference on Mater-  nal and Infant Welfare to be held at Brighton.
 Considering the four  hours required in transit this might seem a short time, but I was happy  to have even as much as that.
 So I went.
 With the prospect of reaching university students I traveled to     274 MARGARET SANGER   Cambridge.
 In the midst of the weathered spires, the ivied halls, and  the storied dignity of Trinity and Kings, Noel Porter and his wife,  Bevan, had converted an old public house, The Half Moon, into a  home, yet had managed to keep its original atmosphere of convivial  hospitality.
 The tap-room had once opened directly on Little St. Mary's  Lane ; now the bar had been removed, but the ancient sign still swung  back and forth and the smoky ceilings and mildewed paneling were  the same as when former generations had congregated there over mugs  of ale.
 Opposite was a tiny, old-fashioned graveyard, no longer used, and  I went out there and let the sun beat against my aching back.
 It was  amusing to have to resort to a cemetery for privacy, but the house was  constantly filled with hatless students coming and going through the  enormous downstairs room which served as rendezvous for all.
 In the  afternoons these youths on the threshold of manhood came to talk  over the questions which were perplexing them ; in the evenings they  had little meetings, at one of which I spoke.
 Guy Aldred, who was in Scotland, had planned my schedule there,  and I had three weeks of a Scottish summer — bluebells so thick in  spots that the ground was azure, long twilights when the lavender  heather faded the hills into purple.
 When I had been in Glasgow before, I had encountered only officials,  but on this occasion I met the people in their homes and found them  quite opposite to the stingy, tight-fisted, middle-class stereotype.
 They  were hospitable, generous, mentally alert, just as witty as the Irish and  in much the same way, which rather surprised me.
 Fourth of July, Sunday, we had a noon meeting on the Glasgow  Green.
 Nearly two thousand shipyard workers in caps and baggy  corduroys stood close together listening in utter, dead stillness without  cough or whisper.
 That evening I spoke in a hall under Socialist aus-  pices, Guy Aldred acting as chairman.
 One old-timer said he had been  a party member for eleven years, attending Sunday night lectures  regularly, but never before had he been able to induce his wife to come ;  tonight he could not keep her home.
 "Look !"
 he cried in amazement.
 "The women have crowded the men out of this hall.
 I never saw so  many wives of comrades before."
 THUS TO REVISIT 275   The men were there, partly through curiosity to hear the American  and partly through interest in the subject, ready to fight the ancient  battle of Marx against Malthus.
 Efforts of the English Neo-Malthu-  sians to introduce birth control to the masses had been hampered not  only by the opposition of the upper classes, but more especially by the  persistent hostility of the orthodox Socialists.
 Marx, dealing with problems after they had arisen, had taught that  any reform likely to dull the edge of poverty was bad for Socialism  because it made labor less dissatisfied.
 It followed that if a man had  to fight for the hungers and necessities of ten or twelve children, he  made a better revolutionary.
 "Let 'em have as many as they can," was  the cry.
 On the other hand, if birth control were practiced by the work-  ing classes, the wage earner who could support two children and knew  how not to have more was going to be content and would not struggle  against conditions of economic insecurity.
 Hence he was likely to for-  get "the Revolution."
 Knowing that the Scotch took mental notes of items on which to  debate, I had tried to prepare myself well, and I produced the unan-  swerable argument to this theory.
 "Why do you demand higher wages  then," I asked, "when what you really want is privation?
 If misery  is your weapon you should not insist on an eight-hour day but on a  twelve- or f ourteen-hour one.
 You should pile up your grievances, and  pile them up higher.
 However, in spite of your best efforts I believe  your hunger-revolution will, as it has always done, capitulate to what-  ever force or government will fill your stomachs."
 Socialists, like anarchists and syndicalists, were used to contesting  Malthusianism on economic grounds, but, unlike the others, they had  as a part of their platform the freedom of woman.
 I pointed out that  she could have the sort of freedom they desired for her right here and  now through birth control.
 When I ended, Guy Aldred asked, "Now are there any questions ?"
 After a few somewhat irrelevant ones, silence fell ; confronted by their  own philosophy they could see it.
 One man finally rose, "We'd like to  hear what the Chairman thinks of all this.
 Does he believe birth con-  trol will do what the lady speaker claims for it ?"
 Apparently they were  waiting for their cue.
 But Guy Aldred was not to be drawn.
 After     276 MARGARET SANGER   giving him an opportunity to express himself they plunged in and  said their say.
 Even some women who had never been on their feet  before got up to tell dramatic, vivid, personal stories.
 The next day I was on my way to a town not far from Dunfermline,  Andrew Carnegie's birthplace.
 I arrived about four o'clock in a driv-  ing storm, lacking both umbrella and raincoat.
 No taxi had ever  graced the railroad station, and we trudged through the rain to the  cottage of one of the "most advanced friends of labor."
 I was soaking  wet up to the knees.
 A hurry-call was sent to neighbors for dry cloth-  ing, but among that population of five thousand not a single woman  had an extra skirt to lend, and only after long search was a new pair  of Sunday shoes forthcoming.
 Because there was not an inn within miles, I slept that night with  my hostess in the one bed the house contained ; the husband stretched  himself out on two chairs in the kitchen.
 Since Sylvia Pankhurst had  been similarly accommodated just a few months before, I knew I was  having the best the village afforded.
 The inhabitants had been dispatched from Lancashire factory  towns during the War for special munitions work, and here they had  stayed and made their homes.
 Practically all had been apprenticed to  the mills at the age of eight or nine.
 Girls, because they were destined  for marriage and therefore needed no education, had worked ten or  twelve hours a day throughout their adolescence, and even after their  weddings up to the time pregnancy was well advanced.
 As a result, the  young mothers, who had never, from childhood to maturity, had a  chance to become rested and get the fatigue out of their systems, had  apparently transmitted their weariness to their children; the first-  born were sleepy, inert, and always tired.
 A doctor told me it was  common for boys and girls of five, six, and seven to fall asleep at  their school desks and have to be awakened.
 When I had arrived in England I had gone to see Havelock in  the quaint old Cornwall village where he was living alone since Edith's  death.
 Winding pathways, well-trodden and embraced on either side  by rambling shrubbery and verbena, led from his house to the sea  hundreds of feet below.
 The waves dashed continuously against the  crags and rocks, and thousands of gulls shrieked or sailed majestically  almost in front of my eyes.
 THUS TO REVISIT 277   We had then talked about going to Ireland where I could make a  foray into my own genealogy.
 Mother's ancestors at some stage had  been the same as Edward Fitzgerald's and I thought I might find some  of the places from which they had sprung.
 I had no exact information  — just tradition from childhood days.
 Now, after my strenuous lec-  turing, I needed a brief holiday, and Havelock also wanted a vacation ;  so we joined forces.
 My primary purpose was frustrated because after half a century  nobody in any of the little villages seemed to know anything definite.
 At Glengariff they said, "Sure, and I thought it was Killarney your  grandfather was born in."
 But at Killarney I was told, "Oh, it was  Cork your family came from.
 My grandmother knew them very well."
 More difficult to surmount than the vague discursiveness of these  good people was the Sinn Fein Rebellion, in the thick of which we  found ourselves.
 The night before we reached Cork there had been a  raid and the leaders were in hiding.
 Everywhere we went we could  sense a subtle, surreptitious undercurrent — in the hotels, in the res-  taurants, among small, whispering groups which dispersed when any  stranger approached.
 Ireland had great natural beauty, and I was sorry to see the begin-  nings of ugly, modern industrialism cropping up, especially in Cork  with the Ford factory.
 The mustard-colored kilts of the men aston-  ished me ; I had never known the Irish wore them, but they were try-  ing to bring back their ancestral dress along with the Gaelic language.
 Always their kindness and interest and the sadness in their voices  moved me deeply.
 They were never too sad, however, to give a quick  turn to a phrase.
 One morning the tram in which we were riding sud-  denly stopped.
 Nobody knew why ; everybody was complaining.
 Then  from a side street came a handful of Black and Tans with bayonets  fixed.
 I asked the Irishman sitting beside me, "What does that mean?"
 "You should know," he replied.
 "Those are Wilson's Fourteen  Pints."
 Havelock was a delightful companion, not loquacious, but keenly  interested in everything, and forever jotting down his copious notes.
 We hired a two-wheeled jaunting car in which we sat back to back,  and in this way bumped from Glengariff to Killarney.
 Occasionally the  sun broke through for half an hour, but it was wet that year — potatoes     278 MARGARET SANGER   and hay were rotting on the ground because the sun did not shine long  enough to dry them.
 We arrived at the inn, drenched and sopping.
 Havelock, with his  typically English dread of a cold, went to bed, but I stayed up talking  with a young woman and three equally young traveling priests — Sinn  Feiners all.
 We chatted desultorily until I happened to mention I had  a letter to the widow of the hero, Skeffington, who had been killed in  the disturbances.
 The company, assuming me to be one with their cause, immediately  became most friendly.
 The girl began discussing higher education for  her sex.
 I asked her how she could keep on when she married and had  the inevitable succession of offspring.
 The priests, somewhat to my  surprise, fell in with my ideas by deploring too large families ; some  of the older sons and daughters had to emigrate, and even those who  were left could not care adequately for their parents.
 It would be better  for the Catholic Church as well as for the world if they could help  people to have only a few children and bring them up decently.
 I felt  hopeful because they were speaking of birth control as solving some  of their own problems ; they were saying exactly what I most wanted  them to say.
 Several happy days we spent at Killarney, exploring on foot,  on horseback, and in boats.
 The men who drove the cart or rowed us  through the lakes always knew the old myths of the mountains and  poured into our ears tales of leprechauns and other "little people."
 You  heard the word "divil" more than any other.
 Here the divil, so they  told us, had left his step, there he had run away.
 The shape of every  mountain, the twist of every stream had their stories.
 Wherever we went women, lean and elderly, wearing tiny shoulder  shawls and calico print dresses, fairly started out of the hillsides, bare-  headed, barefooted, complexions like roses, and eyes as blue as the sky.
 Yet their faces were hungry and worn.
 Getting on in years as they  were, they could and did run faster than our ponies.
 When we spurred  forward they came right along, flattering, cajoling, uttering prayers  and "God bless you's," calling on all the saints to preserve you if you  would buy a drop of "Mountain Dew," which was so good for your  health.
 If you bought this Irish whiskey from one, another took her  place, and, quite undiscouraged, began again the flow of sales talk.
 THUS TO REVISIT 279   One of our last days, when the wraiths of the lake dimmed the  emerald hills, we walked to red-bricked Killarney House, to which, as  Havelock said, nature was adding her own wild beauty to the beauty  that man had made.
 All of' Ireland had seemed draped in mist and sadness and, lovely  as it had been, I never wanted to go back.
 V.     Chapter Twenty-two     DO YE HEAR THE CHILDREN WEEPING?
 AFTER the Irish interlude I was ready to go on to Germany to  jLjL carry out the most important objective of my journey abroad.
 It had become obvious that progress depended on finding a means of  contraception, cheap, harmless, easily applied.
 Way back in 19 14  Havelock had seen in some of the last medical journals to come out  of Germany an advertisement of a chemical contraceptive.
 He had  mentioned it to me, and ever since I had been eager to track it down.
 In pre-War Germany every advertised product had been required to  live up to the claims made for it ; the public must not be misled.
 Thus  I was convinced that if the notice had stated it was to prevent con-  ception, the assertion was true.
 No news of it had come since the War,  and I wished to ascertain whether it was still being manufactured.
 Perhaps this formula would be the solution to our problem.
 I had a secondary reason also for going to Germany — to investigate  the decline in the birth rate.
 It was said half the married women had  become barren during the blockade for lack of proper food.
 I was  always looking for evidence to support and strengthen our arguments,  and, consequently, wanted to discover what had been learned of the  relation between vitamins and fertility.
 Berlin was cold and dark when Rose Witcop and I, about eleven  at night, arrived at Neukoln, a special proletarian section of the city.
 The train was late, an unusual state of things in efficient Germany, but  this was the period of her greatest disorganization.
 The telegram which  had been sent to Rose's sister and brother-in-law, Milly and Rudolph   280     DO YE HEAR THE CHILDREN WEEPING?
 28l   Rocker, had apparently not been delivered ; nobody met us.
 There were  no taxis, no carriages, no lamps, no lights in the windows to relieve  the pitch blackness.
 A sleepy, disgruntled porter led us across the street  to an insignificant hotel.
 He knocked at the door ; a head popped out  of a window above.
 "Two ladies want to stay overnight."
 The pro-  prietress said she could give us nothing to eat, but that we could have  a room.
 We accepted gladly, climbed up a ladder into the same bed,  piled high with feathered mattresses above and below us, and settled  ourselves to comforting sleep after the long and tiresome journey.
 In the morning, refreshed, we took a tram to the Rockers' small  apartment.
 Rudolph was a syndicalist, a friend of Portet, and had  been interned in a concentration camp near London during the War.
 Both Milly and Rudolph had suffered great privations after their re-  turn.
 But, although food was very scarce, they were more than prodi-  gal and kind in sharing with us.
 Germany was still no place for casual visitors in 1920.
 She seemed  dead, crushed, broken.
 Street traffic, even in a metropolis the size of  Berlin, was slight.
 I noted particularly the grim silence everywhere ;  people had forgotten how to smile.
 They were thankful for the Revo-  lution, but it had not brought much relief, and the winter to come was  dreaded.
 Instead of displaying food or clothing, the windows of shop  after shop on street after street were decorated only with streamers  of colored paper.
 Everybody was ravenous for fresh vegetables ; money meant noth-  ing, food everything.
 I saw old peasant women coming in from the  country with bags of potatoes on their backs.
 Fifteen minutes after  emptying them on to pushcarts they were sold out.
 The only fruit  to be had were plums, and that is how I remember it was late summer  in Berlin ; it is curious how such memories crop up.
 I cannot as a rule bear tinned  milk and will not give it to babies, yet here when I saw a can of Amer-  ican evaporated milk, I found myself viewing it with glowing eyes.
 I was disgusted with myself.
 Nothing satisfied my appetite except  eggs, and these, along with milk, could be purchased only on pre-  scription from a doctor.
 Meat was reduced to half a pound a week for     282 MARGARET SANGER   each person, but I had no ration card.
 A neighbor of the Rockers  obtained some bread for me and gave me her potatoes although she  and her three lovely daughters had only rice as a substitute.
 I was in  tears over her generosity.
 For months many families had existed on nothing but turnips.
 They ate turnip soup, turnips raw, turnips mashed, turnip salad, turnip  coffee, until their whole systems revolted physically against the sight  of turnips.
 The contact with other persons in trams, halls, churches,  even streets, was nauseating; in a few minutes the fumes of turnip  from their bodies was so offensive that they became almost unendur-  able to themselves.
 I went into a two-room home, clean but overflowing with ten chil-  dren, five born since the War, starvation horribly stamped on their  faces.
 The oldest was twelve — still too young to work.
 The father,  a locksmith, had no job.
 All were living on a hundred marks received  every week from Government Unemployment Insurance.
 It was now  Saturday, and not one crumb or morsel remained to tide them over  until the next payment on Monday.
 They had eaten no breakfast, no  dinner, and the father had gone to the woods to search for mushrooms  to keep them alive.
 Even men who had employment were working only three days a  week, averaging a hundred and fifty marks for a family, and marks  were fifty to the American dollar.
 The best food had to be given to  them because they were the earners.
 Women were the real sufferers ;  they had to go without or subsist on what they could scrape together.
 They nursed their babies beyond two years to supply milk, and all their  time was occupied in a constant hunt to find nourishment for the  older ones.
 I heard countless stories from mothers who had been tortured by  watching their children slowly starve to death — pinched faces growing  paler, eyes more listless, heads drooping lower day by day until finally  they did not even ask for food.
 You saw a tiny thing playing on the  street suddenly run to a tree or fence and lean against it while he  coughed and had a hemorrhage.
 Others like him were dying of tuber-  culosis from lack of eggs, butter, and milk — so many cows had been  sent to France.
 Yet they came up to me and offered to sell their pre-     DO YE HEAR THE CHILDREN WEEPING?
 283   scriptions thinking that I, as a foreigner, had money to buy them;  they themselves had none for these luxuries.
 The old-fashioned warrior who entered with the sword and killed  his victims outright had "my respect after witnessing the "peace con-  ditions" of Germany.
 The Quaker food stations admitted only children who were ill and  only mothers who were more than seven months pregnant or who  were nursing babies less than four months old.
 The spectacle of one of  these women bringing two or three of her brood, not sick enough to  be regularly fed, to share her own soup was too sad and overwhelm-  ing to bear.
 Those in charge of the distribution wanted each mother  herself to eat for the benefit of her unborn child or nursing infant, and  were already crowded to capacity, feeding three and four hundred at  a time on cocoa and rolls made from white flour.
 But they could not  bring themselves to exclude the little scarecrows with large, starry  eyes, pipestem legs, and hands from which the flesh had fallen until  they were like claws.
 On one of my visits the "sister" had them stand  up and then asked, "Where have you been?"
 "To America," they chorused.
 "What have you to say?"
 "We love America.
 We thank America."
 I did not instantly comprehend, but it was explained to me that  they called the station Amerika in token of their gratitude.
 To account for the sorry state in which they found themselves the  Germans were groping to fix the blame either within their country or  on some foreign power.
 All seemed of the opinion that had the United  States not entered the War, none would have been victor and none  vanquished; this, they said, would have meant a lasting peace.
 Yet  they felt little animosity towards us.
 What there was had been largely  wiped out by the aid of the Hoover Commission.
 Furthermore, they  still hoped we might be an influence in loosening the Treaty chains  which kept them helpless and bound.
 When I asked them why they had  accepted the humiliating terms at Versailles of which they complained  so bitterly, they replied they had been told that, had they not done so,  vast territories which supposedly had been mined would have been  blown up and huge populations would have been annihilated.
 284 MARGARET SANGER   The military party accused the Socialists of having stabbed them  in the back and brought about defeat through the leadership of such  pacifists as Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg, who had paid with  their lives ; the Socialists and workers regretted they had not united  with Russia and, combining their own scientific and technical knowl-  edge with her raw materials, conquered the world and thus molded  all civilization to their ideals.
 Both classes sincerely believed that France wanted to destroy them  utterly.
 I saw something of the reason for their feeling one day when  a tram stopped to let off passengers, and a French automobile filled  with French officers, instead of halting the prescribed number of feet  away, plowed right through, knocking down two people and never  even pausing to see what havoc it had created.
 The spectators gazed at  the bodies lying there waiting for the ambulance.
 They did not dare  shake their fists, but anyone could tell from the pitch of their voices,  their expressions of passion and anger, how bitter was their resent-  ment.
 The women broke down all the reserves of my emotion.
 They had  been at one time the most advanced in Europe, politically, economically,  and socially, and, although they had had to work harder at the gym-  nasiums than the men because higher marks had been required of them,  they had been really on a par.
 But now a frightful retrogression had  occurred.
 Working women had been forced down to a state beside the  lower animals ; they had become drudges in the fields in place of draft  horses.
 I saw one who could not have been past twenty-five carrying  a huge basket of vegetables strapped to her back, the weight of  which threw her forward so that I expected any minute to see her go  on all fours.
 It showed a woman with head thrown back, eyes  closed, arms crossed over breast, and was captioned simply, "Waiting."
 The human figures you saw on the streets looked out of eyes dried by  suffering and deepened by hunger.
 They had no faith, no hope, no  philosophy ; they were resigned to love or hatred, peace or war, a living  death or a sudden end.
 Throughout Europe, governments were clamoring for bigger popu-  lations; France was offering bonuses for large families.
 "Our babies     DO YE HEAR THE CHILDREN WEEPING?
 285   are dying; give us more babies."
 Among European labor groups only  the syndicalists of France had recognized excessive population as det-  rimental to the working classes.
 The deficiency in Germany of two million lives sacrificed in the War  had been made up by the thousands returned from Alsace-Lorraine,  from the former province of Posen, and the deportees from England,  France, and Italy.
 There were not nearly enough positions to go round.
 Yet the nationalists, who had tried to cover the bitter pill of imperial-  istic ambitions with a sugar-coating of patriotism, still estimated the  world in terms of numerical greatness and women as mere machines  in the cradle competition of human production.
 Even the German So-  cialists, following in the footsteps of Marx, opposed Malthusianism  vigorously in and out of season.
 A Neo-Malthusian congress had been held in Dresden in 1912, but  the movement then organized by Maria Stritt had practically gone out  of existence and its place taken by a more popular demand for the right  to abortion.
 For a single year the statistics of Berlin indicated that out  of forty-four thousand known pregnancies twenty-three thousand  were terminated by this means, though it was technically illegal.
 Women were now campaigning for a bill before the Reichstag to per-  mit operations to be performed lawfully in hospitals, where fatalities  could be reduced by proper sanitary care.
 Not one of those with whom  I talked believed in abortion as a practice ; it was the principle for which  they were standing.
 They were resolved to have no more babies for  cannon fodder, nor until they could rear them properly.
 Most of the doctors whom I interviewed said that what Germany  needed was children and lots of them.
 I asked one if the medical pro-  fession, as a whole, were doing anything to prevent entrance into the  world of those children whose backs were so weak that they could never  sit up straight, whose bones were too soft to hold the weight of their  bodies.
 He answered abruptly, "By aborting the mothers we are doing  our best to cope with conditions as we find them.
 It is not our work to  change them."
 I was hounding everybody to learn the whereabouts of the contra-  ceptive formula for which I was searching, and was finally given the  name of a gynecologist who should know, if anybody did, where it  could be found.
 I made an appointment, and he greeted me in the most     286 MARGARET SANGER   cordial way.
 When I questioned him about the reported sterility of  German women, he agreed with the argument that, the situation being  what it was in the country, the population should be checked for the  next five years.
 "Here is a friend indeed," I said to myself.
 I then gently brought up the subject of abortion.
 "Doesn't this seem  a ridiculous substitute for contraceptives?"
 The doctor rose, his chest sticking out ; he buttoned his coat, bowed  formally, and inquired, "Where did you say you came from?"
 "New York City."
 "Are you sure you are not from France or Belgium ?"
 "Certainly not."
 "Nobody who has the welfare of Germany at heart could talk to me  as you have this morning.
 Only enemies could come here to give such  information to our women."
 I wished he would sit down ; he made me nervous.
 But I went on.
 "Why is it such an act of enmity to advocate contraceptives rather than  abortions ?
 Abortions, as you know yourself, may be quite dangerous,  whereas reliable contraceptives are harmless.
 Why do you oppose  them?"
 To my horror he replied, "We will never give over the control of  our numbers to the women themselves.
 What, let them control the  future of the human race ?
 With abortions it is in our hands ; we make  the decisions, and they must come to us."
 That was not the tone of this doctor alone but also that of most of  his confreres.
 Thinking that Dr. Magnus Hirschfeld might know about the for-  mula, Havelock had given me a letter to him, and I presented it at the  Institute of Sex Psychology, where abnormalities were being studied  and treated.
 On the walls of the stairway were pic-  tures of homosexuals — men decked out as women in huge hats, ear-  rings, and feminine make-up; also women in men's clothing and  toppers.
 Further up the steps were photographs of the same individuals  after they had been brought back to normality, some of them through  adaptation of the Voronoff experiments in the transplantation of sex     DO YE HEAR THE CHILDREN WEEPING?
 287   glands.
 It was not a place I particularly liked, although I was interested  to see how a problem which had cropped up everywhere in the post-  War confusion was being attacked.
 Dr. Hirschfeld was N kind and gave me the address of a firm in  Dresden which he believed might be manufacturing the formula, so  off I went to that city.
 It was memorable for my meeting with Maria  Stritt, a darling little old lady, as quaint in her way as Dr. Vickery in  hers.
 This tiny aristocrat, like one of the dolls for which her city was  famous, had a fine vigorous mind, and spoke English with care and a  better choice of words than most Americans.
 Again I made the rounds  of the doctors and again found none concerned over birth control ; I  went to the address where the formula was supposed to be, only to be  directed on to Munich.
 Munich, to me the most lovely city in Germany, seemed the most  prosperous of any I had visited.
 I noticed a difference immediately;  the streets were cleaner, the people less hungry-looking.
 There was  more food, more clothing in the shops, and much greater activity.
 It  had always been synonymous in my mind with music and Lieb-  fraumilch, and I was delighted to be asked to dine at a hotel which I  was told was the smartest and gayest in town.
 "Oh, we envy you.
 You'll  have dancing, you'll have wine, you'll have everything."
 But it turned  out to be a night club in the most blatant New York style, one table  elbowing another, the people — Germans, not tourists — dancing to last  year's jazz, the whole place shrieking nouveaux riches.
 This, too,  was part of post- War life.
 On Satur-  days the trams were literally jammed with men and women, young  and old, who had put on their climbing clothes, donned their packs, and  here hieing themselves away to near-by resorts or to the hills.
 With  them went their guitars or accordions, and when the singing began  everybody knew all the words — no tum-de-tum-de-tum.
 If they did  not have their own instruments there was sure to be a wandering  musician to play, and the floors of every hostelry or open-air bier-  garten were literally filled with whirling, waltzing figures.
 Everyone  seemed able to enter into the folk dances, although to me they appeared  complicated — many steps, much precision, and a great deal of dignity.
 288 MARGARET SANGER   Hunger and poverty existed in plenty, however, in the city.
 Hospi-  tals were lacking in the simplest and most ordinary articles — no soap,  no cod-liver oil, no rubber sheets, insufficient clean linen.
 Even the  babies had to lie all day in wet diapers, and consequently the poor  little waifs were a sad, miserable lot.
 Another tragic thing which gave  me nightmare for weeks was to see children's mouths covered with  running sores, because the sole available meat and milk came from  cattle suffering with hoof-and-mouth disease.
 Here at Munich the "birth strike" was most violent.
 Only the preceding spring the Communist red flag had for three  weeks flown from the house tops of Munich.
 I met representatives  from both sides of the political arena.
 The middle- and upper-class  conservatives claimed the revolutionists had not been capable of man-  aging affairs, being good agitators but not good organizers — able to  start things but not knowing how to finish them.
 They had not given up  their guns ; money had been put aside and peasant costumes and boots  were ready for escape, because the existing bitterness made it likely the  struggle was not yet settled.
 Communist leaders, on the other hand,  claimed they had allowed their enemies to flee and then had been tricked  and fooled, and knew at last they could expect no quarter.
 Their ideals,  their faith in humanity, their consideration, had cost them their lives  and liberty, and they would not forget this valuable lesson.
 At a meeting of the Communist Party I was introduced to Mrs.  Erich Muhsam who, with her husband and their friend Landau, had  gone to the front and distributed leaflets to call the boys back home.
 Landau, a gentle soul who so believed in the goodness of man that he  had pleaded with the soldiers to be brothers and not to take life, had  been kicked and clubbed to death by the White Guard, which had after-  wards marched to the Muhsam apartment and, when they could not  find anybody there, had wrecked it with machine guns.
 Fortunately for  the Miihsams they were already in jail.
 Though the Revolution was supposed to be over, Erich Muhsam  was still imprisoned.
 In every country during such upheavals thousands     DO YE HEAR THE CHILDREN WEEPING?
 289   are cast into jail and, unless some other upheaval occurs to get them  out, they remain there ; many pacifists in the United States were not  freed until long after the Armistice.
 In 1928 I saw Erich Muhsam — every inch a poet, an artistic and  delicate organism, almost helpless-looking.
 In 1935, under Nazi rule,  he was returned to a concentration camp — a hangover on the black list.
 The account of his fellow prisoners ran something like this : One  afternoon he had been told to "report at headquarters and bring a  rope."
 "Where can I find a rope?"
 "I don't know.
 Get it !"
 "They're going to kill you," he was warned as he started out, still  lacking a rope.
 "Oh, it's just one of their jokes — a form of torture."
 "You may be right ; you've scarcely lifted a voice."
 But that evening his comrades discovered him dangling by the neck  from a beam.
 They said he could never have climbed up himself and  that, furthermore, he had been beaten to death before Jie had been  hung there.
 Nevertheless, officially he had committed suicide.
 I met in Germany probably a hundred thorough-going conserva-  tives and only one Muhsam, and yet he it was who stood out spectacu-  larly.
 My own interests were keeping me busy enough.
 I finally found that  the formula I was seeking was made in Friedrichshaven, on Lake Con-  stance.
 I initiated a correspondence with the chemist, asking him to  come to Munich, and enclosing stamps to make sure of his reply.
 He  could not make the journey but, instead, invited me to Friedrichshaven.
 All the passengers on dismounting at the station seemed to have  someone to meet them except myself.
 I noticed a smallish man with  what appeared to be bangs under his hat, front and back, standing on  the platform and holding a tight bunch of wild flowers wrapped up in  a newspaper, a matching one in the buttonhole of his coat, but as far  as I could see he was serving no special purpose there.
 I went to a  hotel, and in a very short while the little man himself arrived, having  identified me as the American lady he had come to greet.
 His quaint  bouquet was my welcome to Friedrichshaven.
 29O MARGARET SANGER   The chemist, with his father and brothers, ran an unpretentious  factory which, in addition to other products, was making the contra-  ceptive in the form of a jelly.
 It had been put out before the War, then  dropped, and was now just starting up again and beginning to find a  market in Germany.
 He feared to let me go near his establishment,  suspicious that America might steal his formula.
 But he showed me a  picture of it, and gave me a few sample tubes, saying I could ob-  tain others from his sister, who was going to act as his agent in New  York.
 Thus was inaugurated a new phase in the movement — the use  of a chemical contraceptive.
 I had letters of introduction to several people in Russia, and had  hoped to be able to go there, but I had commenced handing out my  extra dresses, underwear, stockings, shoes in Berlin ; my friends had  so little and were so generous that I could not endure it, arid now, in  the face of an approaching winter of hardship, without wardrobe and  no prospect of securing one or even sufficient food, I had to abandon  the Russian plan.
 I had talked clinic, clinic, clinic while I was in England.
 Having  myself been convinced, I wanted the Neo-Malthusians also to believe  that it was a better way than advice through literature.
 A few of them  were assembling to meet me in the Netherlands, and thither I turned  my steps.
 As soon as the train north was over the border, cream was  brought and delicious fruit; the contrast between one side and the  other was too obviously brutal and awful.
 It almost made me ill to see  so many delicacies in the Dutch shop windows when children in Ger-  many were starving.
 With the Drysdales, to Amsterdam came Dr. Norman Haire, Aus-  tralian born, a gynecologist who had settled in London, sensed the  public interest in birth control, informed himself thoroughly on the  subject, written a great deal about it, and become prominent in the  movement, advocating contraception from his Harley Street office.
 As Dr. Haire and I went around visiting clinics we found that the  countless stores where contraceptives were sold had fitting rooms in  back with midwives in charge.
 They did not maintain the old Rutgers  standards.
 I was disappointed to see the deterioration which had taken  place since 191 5.
 During the reorganization period of Europe the  tendency, under Russian influence, was for young laborites to be in     DO YE HEAR THE CHILDREN WEEPING?
 29 1   charge of things, and they aimed to turn out Dr. Rutgers and the Dutch  Neo-Malthusians and put clinics, which were dedicated to the work-  ers, on a strictly utilitarian basis.
 Here as elsewhere they could agitate  and tear apart but lacked executive ability.
 The new board, composed  mainly of laymen, did not realize that such technical knowledge and  experience was required as only a physician like Dr. Rutgers pos-  sessed.
 He was a sad and unhappy man, profoundly discouraged over  the odds against which he had to struggle.
 Nonetheless, my English friends were converted to the idea of  clinics, and Bessie Drysdale and Dr. Haire planned to open one soon  in London.
 Chapter Twenty-three     IN TIME WE ONLY CAN BEGIN     "Enough, 'tis the word of a Grand Bashaw;  You needn't to bother about the law.
 He told me they wasn't to speak at all,  You don't need a warrant to clear a hall.
 He told me to tell them to stir their stumps;  When 'Clubs!'
 is the order, then clubs is trumps.
 What else would it be when I'm just a cop  And he is a Reverend Archbishop?"
 ARTHUR GUITERMAN     IN confirming my conviction in 19 18, Judge Frederick E. Crane of  the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of New York had  for the first time interpreted the section of the state law which per-  mitted a licensed physician to give contraceptive advice for the "cure  or prevention of disease" ; and, further, he had taken from Webster's  Dictionary the broad definition of disease as any alteration in the state  of body which caused or threatened pain and sickness, thus extending  the meaning of the word far beyond the original scope of syphilis and  gonorrhea.
 But, never satisfied, I wanted women to have birth control  for economic and social reasons. )
 Therefore, in January, 1921, Anne Kennedy and I went to Albany  to find a sponsor for a bill which was to change the New York law.
 It was not only a question of amending it, but also a means of edu-  cating the public, of explaining our cause through the medium of  legislation.
 Months of preparation were required, hours of tramp-  ing the floors of State buildings at Albany, interviewing one per-  son after another, securing promises of help, breaking down hostility.
 When people said that women who would not have children were  selfish and preferred lap dogs, I replied, "All right.
 Then it is better   292     IN TIME WE ONLY CAN BEGIN 293   for the children not to be born."
 That type of woman should die  out biologically, just as did the different species that were caught in  the mire and slime and could not reproduce themselves.
 It is a  principle that applies to human beings also, that they must work  through their environment in order to survive.
 Many of the lawmakers themselves believed that the  measure might be of great benefit, but the party whip cut too deeply.
 Birth control was once described by Heywood Broun as dynamite  from the point of view of the politician.
 If he supported it, he might  lose votes ; if he opposed it, he might lose votes.
 "There is nothing a  politician hates more than losing votes.
 He would much rather the  subject never came up."
 One assemblyman from Brooklyn at first agreed to introduce our  bill and then wrote, "I very much regret, but after consulting with some  of the leaders of the Assembly, I have been strongly advised not to  offer your bill.
 I am told it would do me an injury that I could not  overcome for some time."
 Another refused on the ground of "levity  from his associates."
 But a few years later we found a young,  courageous legislator who introduced a bill and secured hearings.
 Although it was defeated, the atmosphere was clarified.
 Mrs. Hepburn, who had been in the suffrage movement early and  had been one of the sponsors of Mrs. Pankhurst's tour of the United  States, now lived in Hartford, Connecticut.
 Although the mother of  six, including the actress, Katherine, she retained her youthful face  and figure, being almost like a sister to her children, playmate and  companion for them at tennis, golf, and swimming.
 Young men asked  her to dinner with the same pleasure that they asked her daughters.
 Closely associated with her was Mrs. George H. Day, Sr., a grand-  mother in 192 1.
 She always came from Hartford for every Board  meeting of the\ League and, in turn, her house was a place of refuge  for poor, worn-down friends of causes.
 They could go there and be  ministered to by a staff of servants and come back, rested and re-  juvenated.
 With two such seasoned campaigners to back us, we carried our  legislative activities into Connecticut, the only state where "to use a     294 MARGARET SANGER   contraceptive" was a crime — as though it were possible to have a  policeman in every home !
 A mere six years had elapsed since the move-  ment had begun ; consequently, that we were now able to get a hearing  was in itself a triumph.
 Nevertheless, no easy task faced us ; so much  red tape had to be broken through.
 But here at Hartford we did suc-  ceed in finding an introducer who could hold his own under ridicule.
 Then we had to educate him, feed him with facts — medical, social,  historical — so that he could defend his bill.
 A young priest stood forth as our chief opponent, basing his ob-  jections on the laws of nature, which he claimed were contravened by  birth control.
 Fortunately the committee had a sense of humor.
 In my  ten-minute rebuttal I was able to answer the "against nature" argu-  ment as Francis Place had done a hundred years earlier.
 I turned  the priest's own words on himself by asking why he should counter-  act nature's decree of impaired vision by wearing eyeglasses, and  why, above all, was he celibate, thus outraging nature's primary de-  mand on the human species — to propagate its kind.
 The laughter  practically ended the "unnatural" thesis for some time.
 In New Jersey another attempt was made.
 The law there allowed  doctors to give information for "a just cause," but they were fearful  of including minor ailments under this interpretation.
 The bill intro-  duced at Trenton had a hearing, but it also failed to pass.
 The whole thing was nerve-wracking but was part of the experi-  ence we gained.
 And, furthermore, whenever we had hearings, the local  work progressed much more rapidly as a result.
 Nothing was lost,  however expensive the plowing and sowing.
 Apparent defeats were  victories in the long run.
 It then seemed to me from glancing over current clippings and  publications that people all over the world were discussing birth con-  trol.
 The English Baron Dawson of Penn had been Court Physician to  Edward VII and had continued in this same post during the reign of  George V. But he had broader interests, too.
 One of the great events  in the history of the movement was his speech at the Church Congress  at Birmingham in answer to the doctrine promulgated by the Bishops  at Lambeth that sexual union should take place for the purpose of  procreation only :     IN TIME WE ONLY CAN BEGIN 295   Imagine a young married couple in love with each other being ex-  pected to occupy the same room and to abstain for two years.
 The  thing is preposterous.
 You might as well put water by the side of a  man suffering from thirst, and tell him not to drink it.
 Romance and  deliberate self-restraint do not to my mind rhyme very well together.
 A touch of madness to begin with does no harm.
 Heaven knows life  sobers it soon enough.
 His speech caused an immense sensation throughout England.
 Headlines and streamers announced, "King's Physician asks Church  to sanction birth control."
 The deduction was that His Majesty was  endorsing it, and stolid Britishers were all agog at the idea that Buck-  ingham Palace was now talking about the subject ; it was hinted Queen  Mary was not overpleased.
 On this side of the Atlantic Major General John J. O'Ryan, who  had commanded the Twenty-Seventh National Guard Division, lec-  tured on overpopulation as a cause for war.
 Frank Vanderlip, once  Assistant Secretary of the Treasury and later President of the Na-  tional City Bank, had just returned from Japan, proclaiming that  population must be controlled because some countries could no longer  feed themselves.
 Here was an army man on the one hand, and a finan-  cier on the other, unprimed, uncoerced, even uninvited, speaking out  of their independent experiences.
 They were voices in the wilderness,  oases in the desert, and certainly encouraging historical landmarks.
 Among uneasy experts the sentiment was growing that population  pressure in Japan would soon create an inevitable explosion.
 Indeed,  one of the familiar arguments in the United States brought forward  against birth control was the "menace of the Yellow Peril," by which  was meant specifically, Japan.
 What folly to reduce our birth rate when  Orientals were multiplying so appallingly fast that the downfall of  Western civilization might soon be looked for !
 India and China were  teeming indiscriminately, but their peoples were feeble, inert, and dis-  eased ; whereas the Japanese were being reared under German health  traditions, were ninety-seven percent literate, and were technically  equipped for battle.
 Naturally I was eager to learn as much about this situation as possi-  ble, and welcomed the opportunity to meet the Nipponese friends of     296 MARGARET SANGER   Gertrude Boyle, who had married a gentleman of Japan.
 They always  appeared in pairs or groups of three, four, five at a time, talking busily  in asides with each other while I exchanged opinions with one.
 They  were helpful in furnishing me with unpublished facts ; the older, con-  servative, nationalist, militarist party advocated greater numbers, but  the young, liberal intellectuals, many of whom had attended Occidental  universities, could see the clouds already lowering on the horizon and  hoped the storm could be averted by controlled population growth.
 Atro, a reporter on a New York Japanese paper, had been supplying  the last-named group, which in Tokyo called itself Kaizo, meaning  reconstruction, with clippings about birth control, and several of my  articles had been printed in their publication.
 The women's point of view was graphically described to me by the  Baroness Shidzue Ishimoto, daughter of the head of the great Hirota  clan and wife of Baron Keikichi Ishimoto, a young nobleman who had  put in practice his ideals of service.
 This charming, youthful and gra-  cious matron, tall for her race and equally beautiful by our standards,  very smart in her American street costume, had in 191 9 come from her  own land where suffrage for women was still mentioned in awed tones.
 She had studied our language at a Y.W.C.A.
 business school, and in  three months had performed the extraordinary accomplishment of  mastering it sufficiently to speak, write, and even take dictation in  English.
 We quickly became friends and she at once foresaw the possibilities  of birth control in bringing Japanese women out of their long sup-  pression in the family system.
 She said she intended to form a league  immediately upon her arrival in Tokyo, and did so in 1921.
 During that year also clinics were started in England.
 That of Marie  S topes proved popular, although instruction, given by a midwife, was  limited to mothers who had already had at least one child.
 Shortly  afterwards Dr. Haire and Bessie Drysdale, with Harold Cox as chair-  man of a lay group to finance the work, established Walworth Center,  which had a fine gynecological thoroughness and set an example which  later clinics in England followed.
 It was high time clinics were started in the United States as well.
 After the Crane decision I had anticipated that hospitals were going to  give contraceptive advice.
 But in 19 19, under Dr. Mary Halton's di-     IN TIME WE ONLY CAN BEGIN 297   rection, two women, the first with tuberculosis, the other with syphilis,  had been taken from one to another institution on Manhattan Island.
 All had refused such information, although most had agreed that the  patients, if pregnant, could be aborted.
 The officers in charge had said  they were obliged to protect their charters, and the staff physicians  their licenses and reputations.
 Anything depending on the organized medicine is hard to put  over; though individual doctors may break away, in the long run  most medical progress proceeds by group action.
 Since the hospitals were laggard in this matter, I decided to open a  second clinic of my own.
 It was to be in effect a laboratory dealing in  human beings instead of mice, with every consideration for environ-  ment, personality, and background.
 I was going to suggest to women  that in the Twentieth Century they give themselves to science as  they had in the past given their lives to religion.
 In addition to the usual rooms I planned to have a day nursery where  children could be kept amused and happy while the mothers were being  instructed.
 A properly chosen staff could enable us to have weekly ses-  sions on prenatal care and marital adjustment.
 Gynecologists were to  refer patients to hospitals if pregnancy jeopardized life; a specialist  was to advise women in overcoming sterility ; a consultant was to deal  with eugenics ; and, finally, since anxiety and fear of pregnancy were  often the psychological causes of ill health, a psychiatrist was to be  added.
 I intended, furthermore, that it should be a nucleus for research  on scientific methods of contraception; domestically manufactured  supplies of tested efficacy could not, at that time, be procured.
 Several  asked me what methods I was recommending, but Dr. Emmett  Holt, then the outstanding pediatrician of New York, whose book,  The Care and Feeding of Children, was the bible of thousands of  mothers, invited me to come to his office; before making any endorse-  ment he wanted to know more about it.
 I packed up all my European supplies and showed them and ex-  plained them to Dr. Holt, who had called in also an obstetrician and a  neurologist, Dr. Frederick Peterson, for the discussion.
 The usual     298 MARGARET SANGER   attitude of the child specialist was, "Our living depends upon babies.
 Why should we advocate limiting the supply ?
 The more the merrier.
 If you cut down, you're taking our maintenance from us."
 But Dr.  Holt said, "A thoroughly reliable contraceptive would be a godsend  to us.
 If the family cannot afford a nurse we must rely on the health  and strength of the mother to keep her baby alive.
 If pregnancy can be  postponed for a few years, not only the baby who has been born, but  the baby who comes after is much more likely to survive."
 Dr. Holt lent us his name, one of the first important physicians to  do so, thus setting an example which eventually others followed.
 Five  or six men and women doctors agreed to stand behind the clinic.
 But I had to have more than verbal approval.
 Unless the clinic were  to be conducted by a doctor with a New York practicing license, it  would not be there to stay.
 In early autumn I brought together an  interested group to discuss the possibility of a location on the East  Side near Stuyvesant Square, and Dr. Lydia Allen de Vilbiss, whom  I had met at the Indianapolis social workers' conference, was going to  form her own medical committee behind her and build it up.
 On the  basis of her promise, I signed a year's lease for a small suite of rooms  at 317 East Tenth Street, from which a dentist had just moved out, ap-  propriately situated on the ground floor in a densely populated section.
 The legislative activities and planning for a clinic had taken much  of my attention during the year, but the central theme was the de-  termination to hold the First National Birth Control Conference,  November n-13, 1 9 21 &gt; at the Plaza Hotel in New York.
 I timed  it purposely to coincide with a meeting of the American Public Health  Association, hoping that if we could only convince these officials of  the need for birth control, they would use it in their own work.
 In addition to the health aspect, we planned to treat of population  and also have a doctors' meeting on methods and technique.
 But  "flaming youth" was having its fling, and the great clamor of the  moment was directed towards the moral issue.
 Opponents were con-  stantly hurling the statement that immorality among young people  was to be the inevitable fruit of our efforts.
 This I did not believe.
 I  knew that neither morality nor immorality was an external factor in  human behavior; essentially these qualities grew and emerged from  within.
 If the youth of the post- War era were slipping away from     IN TIME WE ONLY CAN BEGIN 299   sanctioned codes, it was not the fault of birth control knowledge  any more than it was the fault of the automobile, which made  transportation to the bright lights of the city quick and easy.
 Im-  morality as a result should not be placed at the door of Messrs. Ford  or Chrysler.
 In order to have a free and fair hearing we proposed a large open  meeting to wind up the Conference, and invited ministry and clergy  of all denominations, including Archbishop Patrick J. Hayes, who  was the spokesman of the Catholic Church in New York.
 The movement was older in England and had already established  its dignity there.
 Consequently, the presence at the Conference of  such an outstanding Englishman as Harold Cox was certain to carry  weight.
 To persuade him to take the sea voyage I sailed for Europe.
 When I arrived in London I found him unwell, and his doctors at  first refused him permission to travel.
 Under the circumstances it  was very fine of him to promise to come.
 J. O. P. Bland also said he  would look in on the Conference if only to give it his blessing.
 He was  a dark-haired, witty, amusing North-of-Irishman who had lived much  in the Orient and become an authority on Far Eastern matters, an  internationalist in all his thinking.
 He was one of those who always  helped- to hold up your right hand.
 My object in England having been attained, I went on to Switzer-  land with a definite aim ; I had formed a habit in my nursing days,  when I was waiting in the night to give medicine or treatment to a  patient, of occupying the time putting down experiences and thoughts  that came to me.
 The same habit continued.
 After lectures, while I was  still sizzling with excitement, I often relieved the tenseness by writing  down answers to questions I feared I had not covered adequately.
 Be-  fore I knew it I had material gathered for a book, and even some chap-  ters in rough draft.
 They needed pulling together and polishing off  and I went to bed in Montreux for a month to do this.
 I had regarded  Woman and the New Race as my heart book ; this, The Pivot of Civi-  lization, was to be my head book.
 I brought it back with me to the  United States and Wells, who was reporting the Washington Disarm-  ament Conference for the New York World, wrote an introduction.
 To make our Conference a success it had to be under the auspices  of an organization.
 I had always had a dread of them.
 I knew their     300 MARGARET SANGER   weaknesses and the stifling effect they could 'have.
 They seemed heavy  and ponderous, rigid, lifeless, and soulless, often caught in their own  mechanism to become dead wood, thus defeating the very purposes  for which they had initially been established.
 Even the women who  were able and clever at systematizing such bodies terrified me with  their rule-and-rote minds, their weight-and-measure tactics ; they ap-  peared so sure, so positive that I felt as if I were in the way of a giant  tractor which destroyed mercilessly as it went.
 In spite of this dread I had reasoned out the necessity for an organi-  zation to tie up the loose ends.
 Although it might be limiting and in-  hibiting to the individual, it had other advantages of strength and  solidity which would enable it to function when the individual was  gone.
 Therefore I sent a questionnaire to leaders in social and pro-  fessional circles, asking them whether the time had not come for such  a national association ; the replies almost unanimously confirmed this  decision.
 The evening before the Conference was to open, a few friends  gathered together to launch the American Birth Control League.
 Its  aims were to build up public opinion so that women should demand  instruction from doctors, to assemble the findings of scientists, to  remove hampering Federal statutes, to send out field workers into  those states where laws did not prevent clinics, to co-operate with  similar bodies in studying population problems, food supplies, world  peace.
 After the dinner, given at Mrs. George F. Rublee's home,  we talked over specific plans for the year and set in motion the  machinery for having the League incorporated.
 Juliet Barrett Rublee had been one of the pioneers, a member of the  original Committee of One Hundred, and all the way through the  years she has never wavered from my side.
 No more inspired idealist  was ever initiated into a movement.
 The imagination of this pictur-  esque, romantic wife of a conservative lawyer had been so fired that  she dedicated to it her entire devotion, loyalty, partisanship.
 Others had  rallied their own personal friends around the idea, but Juliet's influence  brought in her husband's associates — the Cravaths, Morrows, La-  monts, Dodges, and Blisses.
 Juliet's parties were always gay and interesting, with an atmosphere  nobody else could create.
 Her small, engaging dining room was as     IN TIME WE ONLY CAN BEGIN 3OI   colorful as she herself — the only woman I ever knew who dared to  wear bright greens, reds, yellows, all together.
 For lunches, teas, and  dinners in behalf of the cause she practically turned over her home in  Turtle Bay Gardens.
 A goodly number attended the opening of our Conference, which,  appropriately, coincided with that of the great disarmament confer-  ence at Washington.
 The medical meeting, where contraceptive tech-  nique was discussed, was so crowded that latecomers could not squeeze  in.
 The doctors who did find places, each apparently surprised to see  his confreres there, expected us to have a hundred percent sound  methods ; they seemed disappointed because we had no magic up our  sleeves and told them quite frankly we had not.
 The best we could do  was show what devices were being employed, including those from the  Netherlands and.
 the preparation I had found at Friedrichshaven,  with the warning that they had not been tested for efficacy.
 After two full days nothing remained but the Sunday evening mass  meeting on "Birth Control, Is It Moral?"
 For this we had selected  the Town Hall pn West Forty-third Street, a new club designed as a  forum for adult education; the auditorium was often used for discus-  sion of questions of civic interest.
 Harold Cox was to deliver the first  speech and I was to follow.
 Always, when I am to speak, I attempt to visualize the hall and the  audience in order to feel my way into the subject.
 Throughout Sunday,  try as I would to "tune in" to the approaching event, I could not do it.
 I kept remembering a dream I had had the night before in which I was  carrying a small baby in my arms up a very steep hill and came rather  abruptly to a slope which became a mountain side of rock and slippery  shale ; I had nothing to grasp to prevent me from sliding.
 The baby  cried continually and I wanted to comfort it, but I dared not use my  right hand because it was held up like a balancing rod which saved us  both from falling.
 That miserable dream made me drowsy all day.
 My  brain seemed numb.
 I simply could not think of what I was going to  say.
 Anne Kennedy had gone ahead to the Town Hall at about seven  o'clock.
 Harold Cox and I had dined at Juliet's but I could not eat ; I  was interested neither in the food nor the conversation.
 I still had an     302 MARGARET SANGER   absolute blank in front of me.
 Juliet was congratulating me that soon,  with the Conference over, I could have a rest.
 Ordinarily when I am  approaching the end of a particular job I begin to feel released, but this  time I could not reassure her ; I was nervous, anxious, and apprehen-  sive.
 Our taxi swung into West Forty-third Street and crept cautiously  along through a swarming aggregation.
 "Heavens !"
 I said.
 "This is  an overflow with a vengeance."
 We dismounted and pushed our way to the Town Hall doors.
 They  were closed and two policemen barred our path when Mr. Cox and I  attempted to enter.
 "This gentleman is one of the speakers and I am  another," I said.
 "Why can't we go in?"
 "There ain't gonna be no meeting.
 That's all I can say."
 I had not the faintest idea of what was happening.
 A newspaper  man standing near by suggested, "Why not call up Police Commis-  sioner Enright and see what the trouble is ?"
 Juliet and I rushed across the street to a booth and she telephoned  police headquarters.
 No one could say where the Commissioner was.
 As far as they knew no orders to forbid the meeting had been issued.
 Then I put through a call for Mayor Hylan.
 While I was waiting  for the connection I kept my eyes on the Town Hall entrance and saw  that policemen were cautiously opening the doors to let out driblets of  people.
 If they could get out I could get in, so I abandoned the tele-  phone and wove my way through the throng until I reached the doors,  slipping in under the policemen's arms before they could stop me.
 Dignified health officers from all over the country, lawyers and judges  with their families and guests were standing about, grumbling, vague,  reluctant to depart, wondering what to do.
 I fairly flew up the aisle but halted in front of the footlights ; they  were as high as my head and another blue uniform was obstructing the  steps leading to the stage.
 Suddenly Lothrop Stoddard, the author, tall  and strong, seized me and literally tossed me up to the platform.
 A  messenger boy was aimlessly grasping flowers which were to be pre-  sented after my speech.
 Stoddard grabbed them briskly, handed them  to me, and shouted, "Here's Mrs. Sanger !"
 "Don't leave !"
 I called to the audience.
 "We're going to hold the  meeting."
 IN TIME WE ONLY CAN BEGIN 303   A great scramble began to get back into the seats.
 The hall was in a  turmoil ; the front doors had been stampeded and those in the street  were pressing in, only to find their places gone.
 The boxes and galleries  were soon filled, the stage was jammed, hundreds were crowded in the  rear.
 I cried, "Get in out of the aisles !"
 I knew the meeting could be  legally closed if they were blocked, and I did not want fire regulations  to be used as a pretext.
 I still had no idea of what had gone on earlier when I commenced  my lecture, but had uttered no more than ten or twelve words when two  policemen loomed up beside me and said, "You can't talk here."
 A  thundering applause broke out as though it were the only relief for  angry, indignant, rebellious spirits.
 "Why can't I ?"
 I started again but my voice could not be heard.
 I then suggested to  Harold Cox, "Perhaps they'll let you speak.
 Try it."
 This white-haired  and pink-cheeked gentleman walked to the edge of the platform with  a dignity of bearing about as distantly removed from immorality as  could be imagined.
 "Ladies and gentlemen," he began, "I have come  from across the Atlantic — " but that was as far as he got before he  was led back to his seat by a policeman.
 Then Mary Winsor, an ardent suffragette, sprang up, but they  stopped her also.^ As soon as one was downed, another jumped to his  or her feet.
 I did not know the names of some of the volunteers, who  were not even allowed to finish their "Ladies and gentlemen."
 Meanwhile, Anne Kennedy was telling me as best she could what  had happened prior to my arrival.
 When the house had been half filled,  a man had come to the platform and asked, "Who's in charge?"
 "I am," Anne had answered.
 "This meeting must be closed."
 "Why?"
 "An indecent, immoral subject is to be discussed.
 It cannot be held."
 "On what authority ?
 Are you from the police ?"
 "No, I'm Monsignor Dineen, the Secretary of Archbishop Hayes."
 "What right has he to interfere ?"
 "He has the right."
 Here he turned to a policeman.
 "Captain,  speak up."
 "Who are you ?"
 Anne had demanded.
 304 MARGARET SANGER   "I'm Captain Donohue of this district.
 The meeting must be  stopped."
 Capable and cool-headed Anne had replied, "Very well, we'll write  this down and I'll read it to the audience.
 T, Captain Thomas Donohue,  of the Twenty-sixth Precinct, at the order of Monsignor Joseph P.  Dineen, Secretary to Archbishop Patrick J. Hayes, have ordered this  meeting closed.'
 "   The listeners had sat petrified while she had read them this strange  admission.
 No hissing or booing then.
 They had just sat.
 It was one  thing to have the hall shut by a mistaken or misguided police captain ;  a very different thing to have it done by a high dignitary of the Roman  Catholic hierarchy.
 Monsignor Dineen was now stationed in the back of the hall, and  Anne pointed him out to me, of medium size, in plain attire, calmly  directing the police by a casual nod of the head or a whisper to a man  who acted as runner between him and the Captain on the platform.
 Confusion and tumult continued for at least an hour.
 Newspaper  men were scribbling stories ; those who could not get in were creating  commotion outside ; the reserves had been summoned.
 It was bedlam.
 Miss Winsor tried to speak two or three times ; I, at least ten.
 But I  knew that I had to keep on until I was arrested in order that free speech  might be made the issue.
 To allow yourself to be sent home at the  order of the police was accepting the police point of view as to what  was moral.
 Moreover you were bound for the principle of the thing  to carry it into the court for a legal decision; if the pulpit and press  were denied you, you must take it to the dock.
 Captain Donohue kept repeating to me, "Please get off this stage  before you cause disorder."
 Police now began to hustle the audience  towards half a dozen exits, and finally Miss Winsor and I were put  under arrest ; Robert McC.
 Marsh, Mrs. Delafield's son-in-law, offered  to act as our counsel.
 Juliet said to an officer, "Why don't you arrest me too?"
 "Well, you can come along if you like," he agreed.
 So we walked  together up Broadway to the station at West Forty-seventh Street,  policemen flanking us.
 The crowd, still jeering the reserves, who had  been trying vainly to clear the way, fell in line and marched behind us.
 A patrol wagon then took us to night court where we were arraigned     IN TIME WE ONLY CAN BEGIN 305   before Magistrate McQuade.
 Someone had telephoned J.J. and he  came up later, but Mr. Marsh had already taken care of the necessary  formalities.
 We were released on our own recognizances, to appear at  court the following morning.
 It was now some time after midnight, but we all went back to Juliet's  apartment.
 Harold Cox was shocked, not only by the roughness of the  police, but also by the supineness of the audience, which had done  nothing but make a noise.
 "Had this been in London, they would never  have been able to stop the meeting !
 We would have defended our  rights, used every chair and door and window to barricade the place,  even though we might have been beaten in the end."
 Anne Kennedy had brought the reporters, and they were waiting  for us.
 They wanted to make out a story of police stupidity and let it  go at that, unable to believe her when she told them it was the Arch-  bishop who was responsible.
 A Times reporter called up the "Power  House," as St. Patrick's Cathedral was colloquially termed, reached  Dineen himself , "and asked for verification.
 "Yes," said the Monsignor,  "we closed the meeting."
 Then and there we decided to hold a second one as soon as possible  at the same place.
 It was well on towards five o'clock when at last I fell in my bed.
 1  sank to slumber, but it was only to find myself still carrying that  same baby up the steep and sliding mountain, balancing myself with  upraised hand.
 The sky was dark, the way unmarked.
 Wearily I  stumbled on.
 Chapter Twenty-four     LAWS WERE LIKE COBWEBS     "And heard great argument,  About it and about; but evermore  Came out by the same door wherein I went.'
 EDWARD FITZGERALD     .
 fff- t£tm fftm fff.
 tff* tft* fff.
 \W xVV VW \SV.
 * VW \W TfcV*   PROMPTLY at nine the morning after the wretched Town Hall  affair Miss Winsor and I appeared before Magistrate Joseph E.  Corrigan and the case was dismissed in five minutes.
 Neither Mon-  signor Dineen nor Captain Donohue was in court.
 Here was a ridicu-  lous thing — the Catholic Church held such power in its hands that it  could issue orders to the police, dissolve an important gathering of  adult and intelligent men and women, and send them home as though  they were naughty children — and then not feel called upon to give any  accounting.
 The papers expressed the greatest indignation.
 Even the most con-  servative were placed in the trying situation of defending birth control  advocates or endorsing a violation of the principle of free speech,  which "must always find defenders if democracy is to survive."
 It was  to be expected that the World would be up in arms, but the Times  carried a headline that Archbishop Hayes had closed the meeting, and  the Tribune was spurred on by the indignation of Mrs. Ogden Reid,  who had been present at the Town Hall.
 Apparently the Church had not expected to render any explanation  whatsoever.
 Then, faced with a battery of reporters, Monsignor  Dineen made a statement :   The Archbishop had received an invitation from Mrs. Margaret  Sanger to attend the meeting, and I went as his representative.
 The  Archbishop is delighted and pleased at the action of the police, as am   306     LAWS WERE LIKE COBWEBS ^°7   I, because ...
 I think any one will admit that a meeting of that char-  acter is no place for growing children.
 .
 .
 .
 The presence of these  four children at least was a reason for police action.
 He had not improved his position.
 The scoffing was redoubled when  it was learned that the four "children" were students of Professor  Raymond Moley's class in sociology at Columbia University; Mon-  signor Dineen had not seen beyond their bobbed hair.
 Only a small section of the public had been aware of our modest little  conference; even fewer had known of the proposed Town Hall meet-  ing.
 Now the publicity was tremendous.
 Many Catholics themselves  condemned Church tactics, and Archbishop Hayes had to defend him-  self :   As a citizen and a churchman, deeply concerned with the moral  well-being of our -city, I feel it a public duty to protest ... in the  interest of thousands of .
 .
 .
 distressed mothers, who are alarmed  at the daring of the advocates of birth control in bringing out into an  open, unrestricted, free meeting a discussion of a subject that simple  prudence and decency, if not the spirit of the law, should keep within  the walls of a clinic.
 .
 .
 .
 The law was enacted under the police  power of the Legislature for the benefit of the morals and health of  the community.
 .
 .
 .
 The law of God and man, science, public policy,  human experience, are all condemnatory of birth control as preached  by a few irresponsible individuals.
 The seventh child has been regarded traditionally with some peoples  as the most favored by nature.
 Benjamin Franklin was the fifteenth  child, John Wesley the eighteenth, Ignatius Loyola was the eighth,  Catherine of Siena, one of the greatest intellectual women who ever  lived, was the twenty-fourth.
 It has been suggested that one of the  reasons for the lack of genius in our day is that we are not getting the  ends of the families.
 This statement appeared synchronously with our second meeting.
 The Town Hall had been booked ahead for several weeks; conse-  quently, we had engaged the big Park Theater in Columbus Circle.
 It was packed fifteen minutes after a single door was opened.
 Dr. Karl  Reiland of St. George's Church was a new recruit on the platform ;  otherwise our program was the same as before, and a balanced and  poised discussion proceeded without acrimony or excitement.
 Outside,  however, two thousand people were clamoring to get in, even climbing     308 MARGARET SANGER   up the fire escapes.
 Orators were haranguing from soapboxes, men  were pounding each other with their fists, Paulist fathers were selling  pamphlets against birth control.
 In my open letter of reply to Archbishop Hayes I said :   I agree with the Archbishop that a clinic is the proper place to give  information on birth control.
 ...
 I wish, however, to point out the  fact that there are two sides to the subject under consideration — the  practical information as distinct from the theoretical discussion.
 The  latter rightly may be discussed on the public platform and in the press  as the Archbishop himself has taken the opportunity to do.
 And then, citing Scripture :   If the Archbishop will recall his Bible history, he will find that  some of the more remarkable characters were the first children, and  often the only child as well.
 For instance, Isaac was an only child,  born after long years of preparation.
 Isaac's only children were twins  — Jacob, the father of all Israel, and Esau.
 Samuel, who judged  Israel for forty years, was an only child.
 John the Baptist was an only  child, and his parents were well along in years when he was born.
 Archbishop Hayes delivered his final pronunciamento in his Christ-  mas Pastoral :   Children troop down from Heaven because God wills it.
 He alone  has the right to stay their coming, while He blesses at will some homes  with many, others with but few or with none at all.
 .
 .
 .
 Even though  some little angels in the flesh through moral, mental, or physical de-  formity of parents may appear to human eyes hideous, misshapen,  a blot on civilized society, we must not lose sight of this Christian  thought that under and within such visible malformation there lives  an immortal soul to be saved and glorified for all eternity among the  blessed in Heaven.
 Heinous is the sin committed against the creative act of God, who  through the marriage contract invites man and woman to co-operate  with him in the propagation of the human family.
 To take life after  its inception is a horrible crime ; but to prevent human life that the  Creator is about to bring into being is satanic.
 In the first instance,  the body is killed, while the soul lives on ; in the latter, not only a body,  but an immortal soul is denied existence in time and in eternity.
 It  has been reserved to our day to see advocated shamelessly the legaliz-  ing of such a diabolical thing.
 , LAWS WERE LIKE COBWEBS 309   A monstrous doctrine and one abhorrent to every civilized instinct,  that children, misshapen, deformed, hideous to the eye, either mentally  or constitutionally unequipped for life, should continue to be born in  the hope that Heaven might be filled !
 General opinion was that controversy gave us free publicity, and  it did, column after column, but to my mind it was of the negative  kind.
 The truths falsified and motives aspersed had to be debated, cor-  rected, and argued away, and this took time from constructive work.
 The press wanted to keep up the excitement and manufacture news, but  I did not.
 As a matter of fact the hullabaloo was usually done for me ;  the blundering of the opposition often saved my voice.
 The correspondence through the press was dropped, but meanwhile  the American Civil Liberties Union, spurred on by Albert de Silver,  from whom we had previously sought advice and who had helped us  raise funds, had urged me to institute action for false arrest.
 This I  knew would be a fruitless task, but I did consent to the demand for an  investigation.
 Commissioner Enright was said to be out of the city,  but Chief Inspector Lahey, acting in his place, was to determine  whether charges should be preferred against Captain Donohue for  having stopped the meeting.
 On December 2nd, in a small room closed to the press, Mr. Lahey sat  at the head of a long table.
 On his right was a chair to which I was  called.
 On his left, opposite me, was a heavy man with a big bulldog  head, wearing a black alpaca coat.
 He fixed his eyes straight on mine  as though he intended to hypnotize me and influence by sheer terror  what I was to say.
 His features were so set, his expression so immobile,  that I sensed animus.
 I refused to return his gaze but faced the In-  spector instead.
 The interrogation, prompted by this sinister individual, who bent  over occasionally to murmur into Mr. Lahey's ear, held bitter malice.
 Nevertheless, I answered every query as completely and as honestly as  I was able.
 I had nothing to hide, and still believed that my interlocutor  could arrive at no decision unless he heard the truth in its entirety.
 I  was all for telling it.
 ^   But never throughout any of the hearings could either the examiners  or police be kept to the point.
 They were not genuinely trying to find  out who had given the orders and why, but attempting to justify the     310 MARGARET SANGER   illegal proceedings ; and always they went off into vague irrelevancies  extraneous to the issue, such as trying to embarrass dignified, elderly  witnesses by asking, "What are you doing with birth control?"
 Chiefly the investigation focused around the Brownsville clinic raid.
 I denied emphatically that certain contraceptives for use by men only  had ever been there ; they were of a type which I did not recommend,  and had been brought in by the police themselves.
 "Do you mean to say, Mrs. Sanger," went on Mr. Lahey, "that  this statement of the police officer as written into the records was  untrue?"
 "I do."
 Mr. Lahey lifted an official finger to an attendant.
 The door of the  anteroom opened and Mrs. Whitehurst, who had been the leader of  the raid, was dramatically framed before us.
 "Do you say that if she," he waved to her, "made the statement re-  ferred to in the police records, she lied ?"
 "She did," I affirmed.
 This was the first time in all my life that I  had ever called a person a liar.
 I felt as though I had stepped down into  the lower brackets of common decency, but the police are accustomed  to such words, and I had to meet the circumstances.
 Mrs. Whitehurst was instantly dismissed.
 I, too, was dismissed, and  Juliet took my place.
 She had learned from her husband and other  lawyers how witnesses could protect themselves, and tossed off her  answers readily, now and then returning, "I don't know," and, fre-  quently, "I don't remember."
 The black-coated gentleman who had  hoped to trip her up but was getting nowhere, became exasperated and  said roughly to Mr. Lahey, "Oh, stop this !
 Ask her if she's read the  law."
 Juliet admitted she had read Section 1 142, but, to further question-  ing, replied she did not recall when, she had not read it in my presence,  she might or might not have talked it over with me.
 Mr. Lahey rose and left the room.
 Then the Unknown shouted to  a young Irishman who had been busily taking notes, "Arrest that  woman !"
 We could not have been more astonished if a thunderbolt had struck  the place.
 For a few seconds, which seemed longer, everyone was     LAWS WERE LIKE COBWEBS 3II   paralyzed.
 At last Mr. Marsh asked, "On what grounds is Mrs. Rublee  arrested ?"
 "She has violated Sectiqn 1 142."
 "She said she had read the law — is that a crime ?"
 No answer.
 Mr. Marsh then inquired, "On whose authority is Mrs. Rublee ar-  rested?"
 Dead silence.
 No reply while the Unknown and the stenographer  muttered together.
 Finally, when Mr. Marsh repeated the question, the  latter replied, "I do.
 I arrest her on my own authority.
 Patrolman  Thomas J.
 Murphy."
 Mr. Marsh said to the Unknown, "It's customary for brothers of  the law to give each other their names.
 Mine is Robert Marsh, practic-  ing attorney.
 May I not know with whom I am speaking ?"
 "I'm just a bystander."
 "Well, Mr. Bystander, won't you instruct the police officer to be  more explicit in his statement of facts ?"
 "Look here, Marsh, I'm telling you the officer is arresting this wit-  ness on his own initiative."
 He, too, left the room.
 Juliet, Mr. Marsh, and I entered her car and young Stenographer-  Patrolman Murphy, obviously ill at ease, sat beside the chauffeur.
 At  the Elizabeth Street Court, Magistrate Peter A. Hatting smiled cheer-  fully at us from behind his desk, "Well, where's the prisoner ?"
 Murphy made a feeble gesture in Juliet's direction and said in a  whisper which we could overhear, "It's a birth control case."
 "Oh, I see.
 Well, what was she selling — where are the articles ?"
 Murphy could produce none.
 "Well, well, where is the evidence ?"
 Murphy looked even more embarrassed, mumbled that he didn't  have any.
 "Well, the court is adjourned anyway, and we'll have to wait until  this afternoon."
 I was turning my back on Murphy, very cross at him, but Juliet  asked him to lunch with us.
 "He didn't want to arrest me, did you,  Mr. Murphy ?"
 And Mr. Murphy shook his head most decidedly.
 312 MARGARET SANGER   While we ate, he explained that our Unknown was Assistant Cor-  poration Counsel Martin W. Dolphin, with offices in the Police De-  partment, that he himself was Mr. Dolphin's private secretary, that he  had been brought to the inquiry merely to take dictation, that he had  been only ten months on the force, that he had never arrested anybody  before, and that when Mr. Dolphin had said to arrest Mrs. Rublee he  had protested, "Why, I can't arrest her.
 I haven't seen her do anything  to be arrested for !"
 "I'm awfully sorry," he went on, addressing Juliet, "but I had to  obey orders.
 If I didn't, I'd be in an awful mess.
 Gee, why didn't they  get some of the old fellows down there to do it ?"
 When we returned to court, Assistant District Attorney Wilson  said to Magistrate Hatting, "Your Honor, I have no evidence in this  case.
 The police have furnished nothing to the District Attorney's  office.
 If I have not sufficient evidence by three-thirty I'll dismiss the  whole thing."
 Then we waited.
 Eventually the expected "minutes and statement"  arrived.
 Murphy swore that they were true — to Juliet's wholehearted  disgust.
 Her faith in human nature had been betrayed ; she did not  see why he preferred to keep his job rather than his self-respect.
 Magis-  trate Hatting seemed anxious to make everybody comfortable — Juliet,  the Catholics, the police, and the public — and to convey the impression  nobody was really to blame.
 Since the wife of a prominent lawyer had become involved, people  in high places in New York had an obligation to protect their own.
 Publicity had been great before ; now it was multiplied tenfold.
 A letter  was addressed to Mayor Hylan :   The action of the Police Department .
 .
 .
 constitutes such a wilful  violation of the right of free speech as to cause grave alarm to the  citizens of New York, who have a right to know why such outrages  have taken place, what motives and influences are behind them, and  whether any conspiracy exists in the Police Department to deny the  right of free speech and the equal protection of the law to citizens of  New York.
 This obviously is a matter of the gravest concern.
 We, therefore, ask an immediate and full investigation to be fol-  lowed, if the evidence warrants, by such disciplinary measures against  the officials found to be guilty as will discourage similar offenses here-  after.
 LAWS WERE LIKE COBWEBS 313   This demand was signed by Henry Morgenthau, Sr., Herbert L.  Satterlee, Paul D. Cravath, Lewis L. Delafield, Charles C. Burling-  ham, Samuel H. Ordway, Pierre Jay, Paul M. Warburg, Charles  Strauss, Montgomery Hare.
 As a result, Mayor Hylan delegated David F. Hirshfield, Commis-  sioner of Accounts, to supervise an investigation into the previous  investigation.
 The first session was diverted into a discussion of the  merits of birth control.
 The Commissioner was facetious, and, when  Mr. Marsh kept after him for interrupting witnesses and getting off  the subject, finally said he had been insulted and refused to continue  as long as Mr. Marsh represented us.
 At the three subsequent hearings Emory R. Buckner took charge  of our interests.
 Dolphin, although summoned, did not appear at any  of them.
 Captain Donohue testified that Desk Lieutenant Joseph  Courtney had received the information over the telephone, and had  passed it on to him.
 So far as he knew it was the telephone operator  who had given the orders to close the meeting.
 But he would, he said,  have done so anyhow.
 "What law did Mrs. Sanger violate?"
 asked Mr. Buckner.
 "She was disorderly.
 I requested her several times to leave the  platform and she defied me and said she would not do it.
 She caused  quite a commotion and people were all hollering and yelling, a general  commotion."
 "You think it was a crime for her to commence to speak after a  Captain of Police had told her not to ?"
 "Yes."
 "Was Miss Winsor also arrested because she attempted to speak  after being told to keep quiet ?"
 "She said she knew a woman who had nine children and the audi-  ence commenced to holler and try to pull the policemen off the stage."
 Even the Commissioner was becoming annoyed at Donohue's in-  anities.
 He said to Mr. Buckner, "You do not have to put any witnesses  on to show the intelligence and the lack of sight or foresight of the  Captain.
 You and I, I think, will agree on that point."
 And then he  turned to Donohue.
 "Now, Captain, will you tell me the reason for  acting in the Hall as you did to prevent that meeting ?
 You see, I do not  know whether you understand me or not.
 You policemen, you do not     314 MARGARET SANGER   usually understand ordinary language.
 I want to know what was in  your mind ; why did you act as you did, that is all."
 "Because I had orders to do so."
 But he would not admit they came  from any further back than the Desk Lieutenant.
 Officer Murphy was put on the stand next, and the Commissioner  gave him a chance to explain what had prompted him to make the ar-  rest.
 "I figured this way.
 If it would be a crime to run such a meeting  or hold such a meeting in the City of New York according to the Penal  Law, if Mrs. Rublee was an assistant with Mrs. Sanger or anybody  else in running such a meeting, and there were distributed circulars re-  garding prevention of conception, Mrs. Rublee was just as much  responsible for the distribution of these circulars as anybody else."
 "The circulars stated there would be a public mass meeting at Town  Hall on birth control," said Mr. Buckner promptly.
 "Is that a crime?"
 The Commissioner interrupted.
 "Mr. Buckner, you do not expect  this young man to be interested in that.
 He is too young to know about  birth control.
 The old, bald-headed ones are the only ones that are  interested in it."
 And late in the afternoon he said, "I am too busy and have too much  work to do, so we won't have any summing up."
 At the concluding session Desk Lieutenant Courtney disclaimed all  liability, saying the only order given to Captain Donohue was to take  a number of policemen to the meeting and see that the law was not  violated; thereafter the Captain had acted on his own responsibility.
 As far as I was concerned the final scene in the farce took place be-  fore the elderly and firm Judge John W. Goff, one of the official  referees of the Supreme Court who was to hear the charges before the  New York Bar Association as to whether Dolphin should be disbarred.
 He was summoned again in vain until Judge Goff said angrily, "Unless  he comes within the hour, I'll subpoena him," and at last, still in his  alpaca coat, he put in an appearance.
 I was on the stand almost an  entire afternoon during which the attorney representing Dolphin was  attacking me personally instead of inquiring into Juliet's arrest.
 "Do you know Carlo Tresca ?"
 "Yes."
 "Do you know Alexander Berkman?"
 ''Yes."
 LAWS WERE LIKE COBWEBS 315   I could now see what was coming ; radicals were always made the  whipping boys and, in lieu of specific charges, any acquaintance with  them was made to seem incriminating.
 "Do you know Emma Goldman?"
 Here the attorney's voice rose  in outrage, and he looked at Judge Goff as though to say, "There  you have it."
 The next attempt was a subtle sort of third degree, aiming to con-  fuse me and imply I was an inaccurate witness.
 "What was the precise  time you entered the room where Mrs. Rublee was arrested ?
 How large  was it?
 How long, how wide, how high, how many windows were  there ?
 Who was called first ?
 Where were you sitting ?
 How far was  Inspector Lahey from your chair ?
 Were you second, third, or fourth  on the right side or left side?
 How wide was the table, how long?
 Where was the door located relative to the table?"
 Usually I could not have remembered one such immaterial and un-  necessary detail.
 But that afternoon I was given second sight.
 I could  visualize the room ; my mind seemed to be projected into it so that  every particular stood out with the utmost clarity.
 It was an excellent  lesson to me ; thereafter I observed much more carefully.
 After hours of this cross-examination I was physically exhausted,  as though I had been flung back and forth, beaten and pounded from  the bottom of my feet to the top of my head.
 I almost looked at my  arms to see whether they were black and blue, they ached so.
 It was all useless.
 The police went unreprimanded, Donohue was  promoted when things had quieted down, and Dolphin, though Judge  Goff recommended prosecution and the Court of Appeals stated that  his conduct was "arbitrary and unlawful," was not disbarred because  he had not been acting in an official capacity when he had ordered the  arrest.
 In spite of the inconvenience, the humiliation of halls closed,  covenants broken — exactly nothing happened.
 Chapter Twenty-five     ALIEN STARS ARISE     IN the summer of 192 1 I had signed a contract with the Kaizo  group, which had arranged a series of lectures in Japan by four  speakers : Albert Einstein was to explain relativity, Bertrand Russell  the consequences of the Peace of Versailles, H. G. Wells his version  of international accord, and I was to discuss population control, de-  livering in March and April eight to ten lectures of five hours each.
 The five-hour clause I innocently believed to be merely a mistake on  the part of the translator, but I had faith in the common sense of  human nature and expected the error to be taken care of when I  arrived.
 January and February were months of feverish activity.
 I spoke in  city after city — Boston, Baltimore, Philadelphia, and elsewhere —  rushing back to New York to Town Hall hearings and farewell  luncheons and dinners.
 The prolongation of the Town Hall episode  had been entirely unforeseen.
 If bookings had not already been made  requiring my departure in February, I should have postponed the  trip.
 But I had promised, and lecture dates were binding obligations.
 Stuart was at Peddie Institute where my brother Bob had gone, cap-  tain of his football team, preparing for college, having a full and rich  time.
 Grant was there also but he was barely thirteen ; I could not bear  to put the broad Pacific between us.
 The headmaster warned me that  he was only beginning to adjust himself to the school and his studies,  and would be set back at least a year if I took him with me.
 I agreed  to reconsider, but I am afraid I had made up my mind beforehand.
 3 I( 5     ALIEN STARS ARISE 317   With scant ceremony and scarcely enough clean shirts, I bundled him  up and away, leaving the turbulence of New York behind.
 Since Grant was to travel on my passport, I had to have it renewed,  and had telegraphed Washington for it to be sent to the West Coast  where the detail of a visa could also be attended to.
 At San Francisco  it was waiting.
 With the little book and Grant in tow I presented my-  self to the Japanese Consul.
 Instead of stamping it as the usual mere  formality, he examined it carefully and then, apologizing profusely,  regretted very much that the Japanese Imperial Government could  not give me a visa.
 Here was a state of things.
 I asked him whether he could find out  the precise reasons.
 Was it that I as a person could not go there, or  was my subject taboo?
 The next day, after a cable to Tokyo and  much polite bowing, he notified me it was both.
 The steamship company would not sell me tickets on the Taiyo  Maru without the visa.
 Two days previous to her sailing a Japanese  who had been in the United States for the Washington Conference  proffered a letter of introduction.
 He deplored the action of his Gov-  ernment and was desirous of being helpful.
 "The Taiyo Maru is go-  ing on to Shanghai.
 Why don't you get a Chinese visa ?"
 I always chose to go forward, and there was always a chance that  a way might open.
 A hundred and fifty Japanese who had been at the  conference — delegates, professors, doctors, members of the diplo-  matic corps, secretaries — were returning by this same vessel.
 Once on  board I could meet them simply and informally, and I was sure I  could convince them I was not dangerous.
 The Chinese Consul granted  a visa without question, our tickets were delivered, we sailed on the  Taiyo Maru.
 I had never before been on a Japanese liner.
 The segregation  between whites and Orientals horrified me.
 Here were the aristocrats  of a people by nature intelligent, well-bred, well-clothed, inclined to  be friendly, taking Grant under their wing, and teaching us both,  amid much laughter, to eat with chopsticks.
 They had made valiant     318 MARGARET SANGER   efforts to adapt themselves to Occidentalism; they had altered their  dress and fashion of eating — substituting coats, collars, shoes for  loose kimonos and soft felt slippers, forks and knives for chopsticks ;  they sat on chairs instead of kneeling comfortably on the floor.
 Yet  my compatriots kept themselves aloof.
 Never did I see the two groups  together in conversation; they joined only in sports.
 At night members of the crew wrestled in the moonlight, and I  gazed down at their deck, marveling at the grips, the holds, the stout-  ness of legs, the strength of backs and arms, the quickness of action,  the primitive, guttural calls of the umpires.
 Others of the crew  stamped their feet and, for good luck, threw pinches of salt towards  their respective champions.
 Two days out the Japanese asked me to address them.
 I willingly  complied, and the dining room was closed off for the purpose.
 Ad-  miral Baron Kato, who was later to be Prime Minister, and headed  the delegation, talked to me afterwards.
 He had the culture, courtesy,  restraint, and suavity of a true gentleman, rather than the mien of the  war lord his title seemed to imply.
 Equally genial was Masanao Hanihara, then Vice Minister of  Foreign Affairs and destined to be Ambassador to the United States.
 He knew American ways and manners, or mannerisms, if you wish  to name them so ; he was understanding, and perhaps one of the most  fluent of the Japanese I met in the ease of his English.
 He told me his  people were not likely to accept the idea of birth control as a social  philosophy, though they were bound to accept the economic aspects,  and all the young would be interested as individuals.
 Not until later did I learn how happily my contact with these two  gentlemen had resulted.
 They had separately cabled their Government  asking that I be allowed to lecture in Japan.
 At Honolulu I had one short afternoon into which to crowd so  much.
 With leisliung about my neck I was whisked off for lunch to a  magical house at Waikiki, then to a big meeting.
 What surprised and  pleased me most was the complete absence of race prejudice.
 I looked  out over faces, mostly American but with a liberal sprinkling of  Chinese and Japanese in their native costumes and Hawaiians in  bright Mother Hubbards.
 Honolulu was the only place I had found  where, class for class, internationalism did exist.
 ALIEN STARS ARISE 319   Two Japanese correspondents followed my zigzag trail, notebooks  in hand, pencils working furiously.
 They even inserted questions as I  was swept towards the boat where, breathless and almost in a daze,  we were garlanded once more.
 They had a scoop and were going to  cable their favorable impressions to their papers in Japan.
 Their efforts had definitely produced a favorable reaction on board  ship.
 Individuals and delegations of Japanese came into my stateroom  at any time — morning, afternoon, or evening — "to be informed."
 Although they did not knock, this was not considered an invasion of  privacy, provided they bowed profoundly on their way in ; on entering  and on leaving they bowed and bowed, again and again.
 They seemed  to know more about my affairs and my children than I did myself,  mentioning things I had completely forgotten, even reminding me of  my unspoken thoughts of long ago.
 Past experience had taught me that when a despotic and arbitrary  screen was interposed between birth control and the people, the desire  for knowledge was immeasurably enhanced.
 This was particularly  true in Japan, where the recent renaissance had quickened the public  mind.
 At the announcement I could not land, officialdom was sub-  jected to frank criticism.
 A little, round-faced boy called me each morning, murmuring  something in a voice so soft and melodious it almost lulled me back  to sleep.
 With the coffee, which tended to wake me, he announced,  "Madam Sanger go in maybe.
 Yes, Japanese Government let her go  in."
 In ten minutes he would return with the reversal of this news.
 He was aware of the contents of the radiograms which kept the  aerials crackling even before they had been delivered to me.
 One  read, "Thousands disciples welcome you."
 Another, "Possible land  Yokohama; impossible discourse."
 From the ship's daily I learned  first that I might lecture, but not publicly; and then, a day later, after  continuous derision on the part of the press — all right, I might talk  publicly if I wished, but under no condition on birth control.
 The  last word I received was that I could land but speak only in private.
 From the Ishimotos came the message, "Anticipate your staying  with us."
 March ioth was so dripping and foggy that when we reached  Tokyo Bay I could not see Japan.
 The arrival of the Taiyo Maru     320 MARGARET SANGER   bearing such an array of distinguished passengers as the conference  delegates was bound to call forth unusual activity.
 A veritable flotilla  met the ship — police and health officers' launches, mail tenders and  press dispatch carriers.
 Two officials came on board to interrogate  me, and the three of us retired to my cabin, where our bags had been  hopefully packed.
 I showed my passport, told the purpose of my visit,  explained how I happened to know the Ishimotos and Mr. Yamanoto  of the Kaizo group.
 Inspector and interpreter alike smiled amiably as  they plied their questions, ending with the polite query, "Who is pay-  ing your expenses?"
 The implication was that I might be a secret  agent sent by the United States Government to deplete the population  of Japan and to prepare the way for an American invasion.
 This  was particularly amusing, since I was one of the persons thoroughly  disapproved of by my Government.
 At the end of the lengthy catechism it was agreed that the ban  would be removed if I, for my part, agreed not to lecture publicly  on birth control, and provided the American Consul General Skid-  more formally requested permission for me to land.
 I had sent him  a wireless message from the Taiyo Maru saying I would like to visit  the country, if not as a lecturer at least as a private citizen, and asking  him to use his influence.
 Though I had had no reply I sent off a tele-  gram to him immediately, and Grant and I sat down on the luggage to  await developments.
 The two officials had no sooner taken their departure than the little  cabin was filled to bursting with the gentlemen of the press.
 We  started and blinked with each rapid-fire, flashlight explosion.
 The  room was literally smoking with the acrid powder, and not an inch  of standing room remained.
 Seventy were all trying to get in at once ;  whatever I said had to be relayed and translated to the unsuccessful  ones who brimmed over into the corridor.
 Meanwhile, we had docked at Yokohama and, when the reporters  were finally disposed of, my friends, who had been patiently enduring  the rain, greeted me — Mr. Yamanoto, Mr. Wilson of the British Em-  bassy, Baroness Ishimoto, and "the missionary who lived next door."
 After welcoming me they left, the last named carrying with him my  briefcase laden with my most private papers and pamphlets, which I  did not wish seized at the Customs.
 ALIEN STARS ARISE 32 1   Now came the tapping of clogs along the passage, and in the door-  way were framed slight, doll-like figures, pale white faces, crimson  lips, black glossy hair beautifully coiffured, butterfly-looking obis.
 The trials of the day vanished before their bobbing little bows.
 Here  was a Japanese fairy tale come true.
 In precise English the leader introduced the others ; this one repre-  sented the silk manufacturers, that one the weavers; each of the  twenty-five was appearing for some laboring organization.
 She ex-  plained they had been there all day, but it was nothing — they were so  proud to be the first to welcome the herald of freedom for women.
 The Industrial Revolution which had put them to work was still so  young that they were in virtual slavery.
 Yet, she said, they were so  accustomed to subservience that it would be a long time until they  learned to rebel against their wrongs.
 Suffrage was slow — Japanese  women found it difficult to see its advantages.
 They could not be  stirred by offers of economic independence ; it was a higher ideal to  have husbands take care of their wives than have them battle for  themselves.
 She was certain no inspiration was to be found in that  quarter.
 Then, with eyes sparkling, she added, "But when the message of  birth control came to us from Honolulu, like the lightning we under-  stood its meaning, and now we are all awakened."
 We were served with tea, and I continued to await a reply from  Mr. Skidmore, but none ever came.
 Finally, at seven-thirty, due to  the British Mr. Wilson's intercession, the Imperial Government at  last opened its gates to me without the sponsorship of my own Gov-  ernment.
 I still had to go through Customs.
 Papers and books, including  forty copies of Family Limitation, were confiscated.
 Thereafter I  usually left spaces in my diaries instead of writing out names, because  I never knew who was going to see them.
 The Customs men further minutely examined my clothes, acces-  sories, even necklaces and ornaments, holding them up, laughing at  them, calling each other to come and look, in order to inform them-  selves as much on the composition and design as to determine whether  they were dutiable.
 The data they gleaned thus from incoming travel-  ers they stored away like squirrels — and cheaply-manufactured rep-     322 MARGARET SANGER   licas shortly appeared on Woolworth counters, stamped in purple  ink, "Made in Japan."
 When I emerged, tired and damp, more crowds pressed around  seeking autographs.
 Everywhere in Japan people wanted your signa-  ture.
 One man, who spoke some English, said he represented the  Ricksha-men's Union and apologized for the trouble to which I had  been put.
 "Sometime Japanese Government he little autocratic."
 For  that matter everybody apologized for the Government.
 After the torrents of rain, logs blazing in fireplaces warmed us in  the Ishimotos' charming house at Tokyo.
 Grant and I were both in a  large room, almost bare of furnishings, exquisite in its simplicity.
 The fragile walls of painted silk gave an impression of airiness.
 Next to us was the huge bathroom, the floor and lower walls of  burnished, shining copper.
 In the center, raised on legs, stood a great  wooden tub with a top that closed down, and a hole for your neck.
 Five or six basins were ranged around the room and, beside each,  brush and soap.
 You were supposed to scrub and scrub and then rinse  by throwing pans of water over you.
 Finally you entered the steaming  tub to relax.
 It was not etiquette to leave any trace of soap in the  bath or any evidence of its use, because everybody in the family  soaked in that water before the night was over — guests, hosts, and  servants in order.
 I sank gratefully on one of the mattresses borrowed for our com-  fort and laid on the floor ; the rest of the household slept on mats with  wooden blocks in place of pillows, a custom which allowed the ladies  to keep their coiffures intact for a week at a time.
 Through the frail  partitions we could hear the servants laughing and chatting until  late into the night, men and women together, carrying on their bath-  ing as though it were a function of eating.
 Our days were tremendously busy, beginning early with the ring-  ing of the antiquated telephone on the wall.
 People came silently in  rickshas and departed after conversing with the Baron and Baroness.
 Old Japan had extended esthetics into the realm of ordinary exist-  ence, and undoubtedly had produced a thing of beauty.
 The gestures of  ceremony might have meant little, but they made delightful the ar-  ranging of any affair whatever.
 The Japanese always greeted each  other with a bow from the waistline, hands gliding down to the knees.
 9 ALIEN STARS ARISE 323   The difference between one and another was so subtle that a foreigner  could hardly distinguish it, but it was there all the same.
 A particular  mark of respect was the triple bow, graduated according to the social  rank — an inclination, a slight pause, a deeper inclination, again a  pause, and then down further until the back was nearly horizontal.
 Grant, who was very affectionate, had been accustomed to kiss me  when we met, whether it were in a restaurant, hotel, on the street,  or anywhere else for that matter.
 But he had to forego this salute in  Japan when we observed that kissing was a shock to Japanese sensi-  bilities, and, indeed, was considered immoral.
 Instead, he took over  Japanese manners and became marvelously courteous.
 Practically  every time he spoke to me he made the three bows, and unconsciously  I soon found myself returning them with equal formality.
 Politeness in behavior, impersonal and ritualistic, was most notice-  able in those relationships where we naturally expected habitual and  conventional reserve to be thrown aside.
 When the Baroness Ishi-  moto's mother and sister were coming for lunch, she donned a special  kimono, set out special vases and screens, greeted them with the pre-  scribed bows, wordings, and gestures.
 Even I noticed the civilities  accorded the two were not the same.
 The effect was that the mother  occupied the place of honor as though she were receiving.
 A member of the House of Lords telephoned to  say he was a "disciple."
 The press sought interviews.
 Early in my  career I had realized the importance of giving clear, concise, and  true concepts of birth control to those who wished to quote me.
 This  simple policy served my purpose particularly well in the Orient, where  technical phrases in English were hopelessly confusing.
 Under any  circumstances our language was peculiarly difficult for the Japanese,  and their phraseology was sometimes convulsingly funny.
 One letter  from a dismissed government employee to the head of his department  was making the rounds of Occidentals in the East :   Kind Sir, on opening this epistle you will behold the work of a de-  jobbed person, and a very bewifed and much childrenized gentleman,  who was violently dejobbed in a twinkling by your goodself.
 For  Heaven's sake, sir, consider this catastrophe as falling on your own  head, and remind yourself on walking home at the moon's end to     324 MARGARET SANGER   savage wife and sixteen voracious children with your pocket filled  with non-existent pennies and pity my horrible state.
 When being de-  jobbed and proceeding with a heart and intestines filled with misery  in this den of doom, myself did greedily contemplate culpable homi-  cide, but Him who protected Daniel (poet) safe through the Lion's  den will protect his servant in this home of evil.
 As to reason given  by yourself esquire for my dejobment the incrimination was laziness.
 NO SIR.
 It were impossible that myself who has pitched sixteen  infant children into this vale of tears can have a lazy atom in his  mortal frame, and a sudden departure of eleven pounds has left me  on the verge of the abyss of destitution and despair.
 I hope this vision of horror will enrich your dreams this night and  good Angel will meet and pulverize your heart of nether millstone  so that you will awaken and with such alacrity as may be compatible  with your personal safety, and will hasten to rejobulate your servant.
 So mote it be, Amen,   Yours despair fully,   Akono Subusu   And on the bottom of the letter the district officer had noted :   Gentle Reader, do not sob —  Akono Subusu has been re jobbed.
 I myself had a letter from a gentleman who wrote, "How I am  unavoidably in need to execute your 'Ism' and hope to know your  effective method."
 Had it been allowed, I should have given forth practical informa-  tion.
 Since it was not, I believed if I could make plain to the author-  ities that I was not going to break this rule in my lectures, they could  find no fault with them.
 Accordingly, the morning of our second day in Tokyo an appoint-  ment was made with the Police Governor.
 In spite of the early hour  the hard little official, his close-cropped hair revealing all the bumps  and developments, served us tea.
 The Japanese always handed you  tea as we pass cigarettes — in embarrassment, for relaxation, or just  to tie up loose moments.
 Disregarding the vital subject completely we  discussed current topics through an interpreter.
 Though all the people  were intensely serious, they were remarkably fond of plays on words.
 Merrily I was told my name had created much confusion owing to its  similarity to sangai san, which meant "destructive to production."
 - ALIEN STARS ARISE 325   Birth control was thus delicately introduced.
 For the first time I  heard about the Dangerous Thought Law, which had been sponsored  in Parliament by a group called the "Thought Controllers," who  aimed to exclude from the country all ideas not conforming to ancient  Japanese tradition.
 The Police Governor assumed he knew exactly  what I had planned to talk about, and I could not move him from the  conviction that I wanted to present a Dangerous Thought.
 I was not, however, going to let the matter drop.
 I went higher up  to the Home Affairs Office.
 A courteous gentleman informed me the  Minister sent his regards and hoped to have the pleasure of seeing me  some other time.
 There was no tea.
 I was politely bowed out.
 My next stop was at the Kaizo office, where the entire staff was  called into consultation.
 They were bristly and burly enough to be  taken for Russians ; only their kimonos identified them as Japanese.
 One and all decided we should go in person to the Imperial Diet.
 There, on presentation of our cards, couriers started running around  to find the Chief.
 In a few moments the door of the room into which  we had been ushered was opened, and in came the very same man  with whom I had conversed at the Home Office that morning.
 Pro-  foundly embarrassed I explained this was the way of impatient Amer-  icans, who were bent on hurrying things along.
 He was very kind,  and said he had been on the point of giving me permission to speak  publicly provided I did not mention birth control.
 When I sketched  an outline of a possible population lecture we laughed and agreed the  Empire of Japan was not, as a result, going to fall.
 Almost from the time of landing I had been deeply conscious that  I was in one of the most thickly populated countries of the world.
 The Ishimotos' automobile honked, honked, at every turn of the  wheels to squeeze through rickshas, pedestrians, and children in the  narrow, unpaved streets.
 In any traffic danger the first concern was always for the baby.
 I  never saw one slapped, struck, scolded, or punished.
 I never heard one  cry; they all seemed happy and smiling, though I must admit a few of  them needed to have their little noses wiped.
 I could not believe any  country could contain so many babies.
 Fathers carried them in their  arms; mothers carried them in a sort of shawl; children carried  babies; even babies carried smaller babies.
 I saw a land of one-story     326 MARGARET SANGER   houses but of two-story children.
 Boys with babies on their backs  were playing baseball, running to bases, the heads of the babies wob-  bling so that you thought their necks were surely going to be broken.
 The momentum that had come from the high birth rate was felt  in every walk of life.
 Peers, business and professional men were all  having large families.
 One told me he wanted twenty children.
 When  I asked him how many he had already he replied, "Two," and he  was offended when I suggested that perhaps his wife, instead of him-  self, had had those.
 The density of population in tillable areas of Japan averaged two  thousand human beings to the square mile, and it was increasing at  the rate of almost a million a year.
 Although they built terraced rice  paddies on their hillsides with tremendous labor they could not feed  themselves.
 Furthermore, lacking ore, petroleum, and an adequate  supply of coal, they could not develop their industries to a point where  they could exchange their products for enough food.
 The Government should itself have been disseminating contracep-  tive information, but the army faction was not friendly to it and  claimed Japan could never be respected in the eyes of the world until  she possessed a force sufficiently powerful to make might right.
 It  was even then too late for birth control to offset the inevitability of  her overflowing her borders; the population pressure was bound to  cause an explosion in spite of the safety valve of Korea.
 How long  this could be delayed was a matter of pure conjecture.
 Chapter Twenty-six     THE EAST IS BLOSSOMING     *J2v *JJv *m *^)v w?
 w/ wJ w?
 wJ vJy v»v vJy vJv vK* vK* vK* vK* Cw (w vK* w (w vw CK* vw vK*   A FTER I found out where I stood with the Government, the silent  X~\.
 In each one the address  was to a particular class which did not mingle with others — commer-  cial, educational, medical, parliamentary.
 The Kaizo group were intensely disappointed that I could not de-  liver the lectures I had prepared and for which they had invited me  to Japan.
 As a compromise we agreed that I should have to focus  my War and Population talk around Germany and the Allies.
 It was  going to be difficult, because I was not satisfied with the European  facts and figures I had.
 My first meeting was at the Tokyo Y.M.C.A.
 Shortly before one  o'clock I was escorted with great ceremony into a room behind the  auditorium, pungent with smoke from a charcoal stove.
 Then I was  presented to a gathering of about five hundred — prosperous-looking  men, well-dressed women, students, a number of foreigners, a Bud-  dhist priest or two, and a liberal sprinkling of the Metropolitan Police  to make certain my audience thought no dangerous thoughts as a  result of my speech.
 Most of the auditors apparently understood some English, because  while I was speaking they leaned forward attentively, laughing in the  proper places, but when I paused for the translation they relaxed,  rustled papers, and whispered to each other.
 I had discovered that the five-hour clause in my contract was no   327     32B MARGARET SANGER   mistake and no joke.
 Standing from one until six was a frightful  strain.
 The lecture with interpretations took three hours, although I  could have delivered it in one, and questions took two more.
 Many  of these were on subjects entirely alien to my own.
 "What do you  think of missionaries ?
 What do you think of Christianity ?
 Are you  yourself a Christian?"
 This last was naively posed, and, thoroughly  aware of the significance of what it meant truly to be a Christian, I  replied, "I'm afraid I'm not a very good one."
 My questioner put out his chest and said confidently, "I am."
 I seemed to recall my adolescence when I had exacted the last ounce  of righteousness from every breathing hour.
 Many of the Japanese  converts had this spirit.
 They were trying to change their ancestral  ideas of morality and, instead, adopt wholesale the Christian code  without having had time to assimilate it.
 The most painful experience I had in Japan was in addressing the  Tokyo medical association.
 The volunteer interpreter was a young  doctor who had been on a three weeks' tour of America, and his com-  mand of English was correspondingly slight.
 From the attitude of  the audience I could tell whenever he was not conveying my meaning  as I had intended it, though I did not always know what specifically  was wrong.
 The Baroness, unable to bear his mis-translation of  "prevention of conception" as abortion, which she knew would dis-  tress me intensely, finally rose and attempted to correct the erroneous  impression he was giving.
 But the meeting was over before she could  make it clear.,   Nothing had been said about remuneration.
 I expected none.
 But  the next day an army of ten rickshas appeared.
 The officers of the  society, laden with packages and bundles, presented themselves.
 One  by one they offered boxes in which I found an elaborate kimono, an  embroidered table cover, a purse, a fan, a cloisonne jar, and, in con-  clusion, the President offered me the smallest package of all, wrapped  in tissue and tied with a paper tape on which were the characters wish-  ing me health, happiness, and longevity.
 Opening it I found crisp new  bills in payment.
 This delicate gesture was typically Japanese.
 At other meetings we usually sat on clean, fresh mats ; the room  might be chilly, but a little charcoal burner was beside you and occa-  sionally you warmed your hands over it.
 I liked the service and the     THE EAST IS BLOSSOMING 329   food which the maids silently brought all at once on a tray, covered  over and steaming hot.
 After sake in diminutive porcelain cups the  group was ready to converse, and it was cozy and interesting.
 Often  we did not get away until midnight because, although the discussion  was carried on in English, each remark was translated for the benefit  of those who did not understand.
 The Baroness always went with me,  and it was a revelation to them to have one of their own country-  women present.
 I had heard much talk of the Elder Statesmen, but nobody at the  Peers' Club, where I gave an afternoon address, seemed to be even  elderly.
 They were curious to know why women were divorced,  whether they wanted more than one husband, whether they really  could ever care for more than one man, the nature of their love for  children, how long it could continue.
 They were like Europeans in the  frankness with which they regarded the relationship of the sexes.
 Yet  they were not satisfied with the accepted Japanese tradition — on the  one hand geisha girls who played and coquetted and amused them,  and on the other wives whose place as yet was definitely in the home.
 They asked, "Is it not true that the American woman can be all things  to her husband — his companion, mother of his children, mistress,  business manager, and friend?"
 I agreed with them that this was the ideal, but had to confess that  by no means every American wife fitted into this picture.
 Many of the Japanese had themselves forgotten that in the heroic  and epic days women had enjoyed freedom and equality with men.
 Only with the rise of the powerful military lords in the Eighth Cen-  tury had this most rigid, most persistent, and most immovable dis-  crimination arisen.
 The Ona Daigaku, the feudal moral code, counseled :   A woman shall get up early in the morning and go to bed late in  the evening.
 She must never take a nap in the daytime.
 She shall be  industrious at sewing, weaving, spinning, and embroidery.
 She shall  not take much tea or wine.
 She shall not visit places of amusement,  such as theaters or musicals.
 She must never get angry — she must  bear everything and always be careful and timid.
 The resultant upper-class Japanese lady, exquisite and decorative,  was a living work of art particularly created by the imagination of     330 MARGARET SANGER   numberless generations of men.
 My original conception of all Jap-  anese women had been fashioned out of romantic fallacies — partly  by the three little maids from school who simpered through the  Mikado, and to no small extent by the gaudy theatricalism of Mad-  ama Butterfly.
 The unrestrained exoticism of Pierre Loti and Laf-  cadio Hearn had strengthened my illusions, as had also the color  prints that had aroused so much enthusiasm towards the end of the  century.
 But I soon found the cherry blossom fairyland was being de-  stroyed by the advent of machinery.
 In Yokohama and Kobe you  heard factory whistles and saw tall smokestacks, new shipyards, and  great steel cranes.
 The Industrial Revolution, accomplished in our  Western countries gradually, had invaded the Island Empire with an  impact and a shock the repercussions of which were still evident.
 It  had not brought freedom to the women whose low status was admira-  bly suited to the purpose of manufacturing with its ever-increasing  demand for cheap and unskilled labor.
 Practically half the female population, some thirteen millions, were  engaged in gainful occupation though few were economically inde-  pendent.
 In the mill districts mothers scolded their small daughters by  threatening, "I'll sell you to the weavers."
 These kaiko, or "bought  ones," served as apprentices generally from three to five years.
 Mod-  ern Japanese industrialism had been able to take advantage of an  ancient Oriental habit of thought which placed slight value on the girl  child.
 I spent half a day as the guest of the Kanegafuchi plant, the largest  cotton mill in the Empire and the ideal industrial institution which  was to be a model for others, comparing favorably with one of our  best.
 But Kanegafuchi was the exception.
 On the average, employees  in other mills worked a twelve-hour shift, day and night, amid the  deafening roar of relentless power engines.
 Dust and fine particles  of fabric fell like minute snowflakes upon them.
 Their growth was  stunted, their resistance to infection and malignant disease broken  down.
 In a silk-spinning mill at Nagoya conditions were only slightly  better.
 I found over seven hundred girls, some no more than ten  years of age, swiftly twirling off the slender threads from the co-  coons and catching them on the spindles.
 They were pathetic, gentle,     THE EAST IS BLOSSOMING 33 1   homeless little things, imprisoned in rooms with all windows closed  to keep them moist and hot.
 A quarter of their seven dollars a month  wages had to go for board.
 Only by the graciousness and charity, in a sense, of the upper  classes were the household servants saved from institutions.
 When  the Baroness, for example, had married, some of them — cooks,  maids, and nurses — had stayed with her parents, some had gone to  another sister, some had come to her and been set to training the new  ones.
 With her they had a home for life.
 This system accounted in  part, at least, for the fact there were no beggars or mendicants in  Japan.
 Essentially conservative, essentially the product of a strange and  scarcely understood past, the Japanese woman in my opinion did not  possess in her typical psychology any strong leanings towards rebel-  lion.
 This was true even among the many women writers on papers  and magazines.
 Those who interviewed me were intelligent, but I  was constantly amazed at their ancient and domesticated outlook.
 I did not believe the woman of Japan would discard her beautiful  costume or sacrifice her esthetic sense upon the altar of Occidental  progress and materialism.
 The kimono was her chrysalis.
 Outwardly  it was often of some thick serviceable goods, dull brown or black,  shot through with threads of purple or blue.
 Yet underneath were  silks of the brightest and most flaming hues, formalized for each par-  ticular occasion.
 Only a fleeting glimpse was caught of these as she  walked.
 They were symbolic of her present position in society.
 From the lowest serving maid to the finest aristocrat, certain in-  delible traits immediately impressed themselves.
 First of all was the  low, soft, fluttering voice, like art and music combined.
 They were too  modestly shy to talk out loud ; you could scarcely hear them in a small  room.
 Perhaps one reason men did not take their opinions seriously  was because they did not speak up.
 I heard on every side of the New  Woman — but I never saw her.
 Only those who had turned Christian  showed any signs of thinking independently.
 To be a Christian  seemed to imply being a rebel or radical of some kind.
 They told me  it with great secret pride.
 This was the single place where I had found men rather than  women responding to the potentialities of birth control.
 The former     332 MARGARET SANGER   wanted to learn and thereby make of themselves something better.
 They were more and more in touch with the ideas of .the Western  world, and were broadening themselves through travel.]
 I was con-  fident a shifting environment was going to extend the masculine point  of view and, if birth control could be proved of benefit to them, they  would practice it.
 At that time I did not agree that East and West  could never meet.
 Japan was undoubtedly a man's country.
 Wherever we went, Grant  was Exhibit A.
 He was a tall, dark, rather gawky youth, with ado-  lescent manners but always cheerful.
 In private houses butlers and  maids paid him much attention, and, in hotels, as soon as we entered  the dining room everybody, because he was a man child, rushed to  anticipate his wishes, to see that he was made comfortable.
 I straggled  on behind.
 At our first appearance in one of these, the little girls who  were being trained as waitresses and whose duty it was to bow the  guests in and out were obviously confused.
 When we were seated at  the table the proprietor apologized, "You must excuse them because  they are so young, and they have their minds too much on this young  gentleman."
 The Yoshiwara, to which some missionaries escorted me, was cer-  tainly an integral part of this man's world.
 First we visited the un-  licensed quarter, winding in our rickshas among alley-like streets lined  with small houses.
 The dark eyes of the girls peered out through slits  in the screen walls.
 Working men were standing in the muddy road-  ways, chattering, scrutinizing the prices which were posted in front  like restaurant menus — so much per hour, so much per night.
 A door  opened to admit a visitor.
 The light in the lower story vanished and  soon another twinkled upstairs; or a light went out above and re-  appeared below, the door opened again and a figure emerged.
 Hun-  dreds of lights behind paper windows seemed to flicker on and off  constantly, low to high, high to low.
 The sordidness, the innumerable,  shining eyes made me shiver involuntarily.
 After we crossed a bridge to the licensed quarter the scene changed  immediately.
 The wide thoroughfare, with a row of trees down the  center festooned with electric globes like a midway, was clean and  inviting.
 The amply-built houses had an air of spaciousness and lux-  ury, their lanterns sent out a soft, alluring gleam, and carefully culti-     THE EAST IS BLOSSOMING 333   vated gardens produced a profusion of flowers in the courtyards.
 This part of the Yoshiwara appeared a delightful place.
 Its attraction  for the girls was obvious ; they would rather seek a livelihood in this  fashion than in the dismal factories.
 Nor was it odd that they  should find more romance here with many men than drudging for  one all their days as the "incompetents" they became after marriage  under the domination of their mothers-in-law.
 Through portals as broad as driveways the patrons, much better  dressed than those in the unlicensed quarter, strolled up to view the  photographs of the inmates, posted like those in the lobby of a  Broadway theater.
 In some frames was only the announcement,   " just arrived, straight from .
 No time for picture."
 The   clients did a great deal of "window shopping."
 Newcomers from the  country might have eight or nine visitors an evening, an older one  but two or three.
 Many of the girls came from good families, fre-  quently to lift their fathers or brothers out of debt.
 They sent their  earnings back and, as soon as they had accumulated a sufficiency,  often went home, married, and became reputable members of society.
 But in spite of the Yoshiwara's artificial glamour, the crowd of men  swarming like insects, automatically reacting to the stimulus of in-  stinct, was unutterably depressing.
 We walked home at midnight through the sleeping city, mysterious  and quiet, not like a city at all — no jumping signs or illumination,  but more like a nice, low-ceilinged room trimmed with old, brown-  stained oak, and only here and there a glow.
 Nothing else in my travels could compare with that month in  Tokyo.
 The language was strange and unfamiliar.
 The bells in the  shafts of the rickshas, ringing for pedestrians to get out of the way,  added a bizarre note.
 The queer, clicking sound of the wooden geta  was different although somewhat reminiscent of the clop, clop, of the  Lancashire wooden shoes, which also were taken off at the door and  exchanged for slippers.
 All the smells and the sights were quite new,  even the signs on the shops were unreadable.
 In Europe, you could  usually guess from some root word what kind of merchandise was  for sale within.
 But not so in Japan.
 One day I stopped, totally puz-  zled, to inquire the whereabouts of a store the address of which had  been written down for me.
 I showed my slip of paper but nobody     334 MARGARET SANGER   there could help me.
 I went on.
 Fully three minutes later the pattering  of hurried steps behind me caused me to turn.
 Here was one of the  clerks.
 He had gone to the trouble of looking up the address I had  asked for and had come to act as guide to make sure I arrived.
 Throughout Japan the custom of greeting you and seeing you off  was touching, and gave you a charming remembrance of a world  where friendships were worth time and consideration.
 When a Tokyo  doctor heard I was leaving Yokohama eighteen miles away at eight  o'clock in the morning, he presented himself at seven to bring me a  box of choice silk handkerchiefs.
 He must have risen at five to do so.
 From the window of the train for Kyoto the faces of the old men  trudging along the road looked curiously like the drawings of them.
 Everywhere were small village houses and, since I could see through  from front to rear, I wondered where the peasants and their numer-  ous offspring ate and slept.
 The former capital was fascinating.
 The shopkeepers appeared to  esteem their visitors more highly than the goods they had to sell,  though Kyoto blue and, more especially, Kyoto red were like no  other colors anywhere.
 If ever you see the latter, buy it if you can,  cherish it among your treasures, save it for your children, because it  is the most beautiful of all reds.
 It was now April, the festival of spring and of the geishas, the jeal-  ously guarded and chaperoned entertainers, singers, players.
 Every-  body was anticipating the flowering of the cherry trees, and with the  rest of Kyoto I went to see the enormous, spreading, willow cherry,  then in dazzling white blossom.
 It was several hundred years old,  its limbs which grew out and drooped towards the ground were  propped up with care, and around it was a superbly groomed land-  scape garden.
 The proprietors of hotels near such trees erected un-  pretentious tea houses, temporary in character, where hundreds of  people kept vigil.
 You could not help having respect for a people  whose love of a tree brought them from miles away and who waited  day and night throughout the duration of its brief blooming.
 They  paid deference to it as they did to a great artist who they knew could  live just so long.
 The Japanese designed their gardens with the mood of the individ-  ual in mind.
 Some were filled with music, water, birds, activity, and     THfe EAST IS BLOSSOMING 335   there you could go to be cheered when gloomy and despondent.
 As  soon as I entered the Golden Temple grounds its influence fell upon  me.
 Everything was planned for thought and concentration.
 No  color, no noise, no rushing of water, no singing birds distracted the  attention.
 Only at certain hours could you even walk about, because  movement was disturbing to meditation.
 Japanese hospitality reached its finest flower in Kyoto, and the su-  preme day of entertainment was offered by a generous and consid-  erate doctor.
 On inviting me to luncheon he said he would call with  his car at ten in the morning.
 This seemed a bit early, but it appeared  he wanted me first to visit the Museum of Art.
 Here was no wander-  ing through miles of rooms so that the eye was wearied and no last-  ing impression was gathered.
 Instead, I was shown only the one most  prized specimen of paintings, porcelains, and rare screens.
 After-  wards, I was ushered into the library to see a collection of precious  manuscripts, then back through the city for a few especially renowned  views, and finally at noon to the doctor's home.
 His wife and two  daughters greeted me and I was introduced to the guests.
 Little short-  legged trays were put before our floor cushions, and we all picked up  our chopsticks.
 I envied Grant his dexterity.
 After the trays had been removed, we conversed until the business  men had to return to their offices.
 But a fresh group of guests took  their places, and with them appeared a painter.
 An easel was set up  and each of us in turn made a single brush line on the rice paper —  some straight, some curved, some vertical, some horizontal, criss-  crossing each other in every direction.
 Then the artist took his  brush and, amid exclamations of wonder and appreciation, with a  few expert strokes converted the melange into a flower pattern, a lake,  or a mountain.
 An hour or so of this pleasure and the easel was swished away,  the painter vanished with his colors, and a sculptor was substituted.
 We were now supplied with dabs of clay which we began to mold,  the sculptor going from one to another to give assistance.
 If you were  clever, as several of the Japanese were, works of art resulted.
 I  created a plain jug with handle and lip, was taught how to draw a  design upon it and how to paint it.
 Next day it was delivered to me,  baked and glazed.
 336 MARGARET SANGER   Later we were escorted to the garden where we congregated be-  neath an open tea house perched high on a rock.
 There the younger  daughter tended a tiny- fire and brewed a ceremonial tea — no simple  brew, but leaves of a special sort, beaten until the beverage was bright  green.
 When we had enjoyed this delight we strolled about, admir-  ing the brooklets, the dwarf pines, the shrubs, the iris in bloom.
 We returned to the house to find, as though in a play, that the  scenery had all been changed.
 Different screens were up, fresh flow-  ers in the vases, the women of the household in more elaborate cos-  tumes, and new visitors waiting.
 Grant and I alone seemed to remain  static.
 Now on the immaculate matted floor appeared little charcoal stoves.
 The evening meal was served by the mother and daughters as a  marked honor to their guests.
 This time I was brought a spoon and  fork; apparently I had not been very deft at lunch in handling my  chopsticks.
 After dinner came yet more people and yet more conver-  sation.
 I had been talking steadily since early morning, the topic be-  ing selected according to the type of gathering.
 In the evening it was  population, and more serious.
 Sometimes I forgot myself and spun  out involved English phrases, then, realizing they had missed fire,  had to go back and choose key words more easily comprehended.
 This continued until midnight or later.
 At last we had to excuse  ourselves and ask to be taken home, because we were leaving for  Kobe the next morning.
 The doctor and his wife, accompanied by some of their friends,  were at our hotel betimes, all with boxes and bon voyages.
 This re-  versal of the Occidental custom of bestowing presents on one's host  or hostess was an enchanting way of conducting the amenities of life.
 They wanted no return for their hospitality.
 I had arrived in Japan  with one small trunk and departed with five, laden with gifts.
 Chapter Twenty-seven     ANCIENTS OF THE EARTH     • ?
 » •?
 » •&gt;» ■?» •;» ■?» ■)&gt;?
 fff , fff .
 ///.
 fff, fff, fff, / \&gt; .»&gt; .\\&gt; ,\\&gt; fff.
 fff.
 fff.
 fff.
 fff, fff.
 fff, fff.
 fff, fff, fff.
 fff, fff,  r'iii *3i?
 *iii *iil *iii vW V.W V.W V»V V»V* VW VW VW xW VW VW VW VW   OF all the cities of India Benares left the worst impression on  me; so many things exaggeratedly extolled do not live up to  expectations.
 I never encountered more confusion of religious sym-  bols — the Temple of Gold, the Monkey Temple, the Snake Temple  — quite out of place in a holy city.
 I did not like temples.
 They  made me feel queer in the middle, so smelly and such relics of ages  gone by.
 Worshipers bowed low, resting their foreheads on the wet  and slimy floors where thousands of people were walking in and  out.
 Around the doors were beggars — blind, maimed, diseased.
 In the  grounds were animals of every kind — monkeys, oxen, buffaloes,  goats for the sacrifice ; vultures and crows were flying overhead.
 Most foreigners disliked the Ganges, floating with horrors, but  I found it at dawn comparatively clean, and by far the most attrac-  tive thing there.
 We had risen early to see the Brahmins, the first-  comers, men and women, old and young, bathing in the holy water.
 Mourners were sitting on a hillock some twenty feet away from a  burning ghat, still aflame, waiting until the fire died down and the  ashes could be swept into the river.
 This seemed to me a more whole-  some manner of dealing with the dead than the Western custom of  burial.
 Later Joseph, whose cough was increasing, led us through the  narrow streets to the bazaars.
 Screaming mobs of vendors lured  you towards lace shops or to buy brasses or silks.
 They came up   478     DEPTH BUT NOT TUMULT 479   to offer you cards.
 If you took one, competitors shouted and yelled,  "He's a liar, a thief, a robber, don't go with him!
 His goods are  fake!"
 Although some of the wares were exquisite, this ferocity  again did not coincide with my conception of a holy city.
 Allahabad was more like a college town, and there I visited Mrs.  Ranjit Sitaram Pandit, the sister of Jawaharlal Nehru, whom I had  met in London.
 Her home was old and spacious, a nucleus of in-  tellectual thought and activity.
 She sponsored a meeting to which about six hundred students  came.
 It was inspiring to see fine young people attempting to weave  together your philosophy and theirs.
 They were extremely sensitive  — more than most audiences, I think.
 But, as was the case with  youth elsewhere, they made light of anything that could be made  light of.
 After the meeting free literature was announced, and in  two minutes it was a regular football rush.
 We had to throw the  pamphlets over their heads to keep them from stampeding the plat-  form in their headlong scramble.
 At the Purdah Club the audience, of course, was entirely women;  many, in their early twenties, already had large families.
 They were  little accustomed to frank examination of such subjects, but, on  the other hand, did not want mere theories.
 By the time questions  were in order they had recovered from their giggling and were ready  to talk seriously.
 As usual, some came up afterwards to query me per-  sonally on matters that could better and more profitably have been  discussed with all.
 On reaching Agra we reserved the Taj Mahal for sunset.
 Fortu-  nately, only a few people were there, so that the quiet was intensified.
 Words are inadequate to describe its dignity and chastity ; it seemed  to breathe the essence of beauty.
 It was not overwhelming, as were  some of the world's wonders, but it had a perfect simplicity.
 I stayed  until the sun sank, and in the afterglow the marble shone in a  mystic effulgence, like something in another dimension reflected in  the still, translucent pool.
 There was not a cloud in the sky, just  radiance everywhere.
 Before daybreak I climbed again to the top  of the gate tower and watched the rising sun cast its shadow on the  dome.
 With reluctance I turned away to catch the train for Baroda.
 After a long journey we arrived at the capital at three in the morn-     480 MARGARET SANGER   ing.
 I had been invited as a state guest, and, in spite of the hour,  we were met by the secretary under a handsome hat of red and gold  and black.
 Immediately you felt a touch of Paris in the way clothes  were worn in Baroda.
 Arrangements had been made for my audience with the Gaekwar,  who had been put on the throne by the British Government.
 He  was a most progressive ruler for his two and a half million subjects,  aiming at compulsory education and the abolition of caste restric-  tions.
 In the immense anteroom of the Palace were ten or fifteen  tall Indians with gorgeous turbans, who must have been more than  just ordinary officials.
 The Gaekwar, short, vigorous, alert, shook  hands and recalled that he had been President of the World Fellow-  ship of Faith at Chicago, which he said had been the greatest honor  of his life, and that he remembered my talk there.
 "Her Highness wishes to meet you this afternoon.
 She is begin-  ning to spend much time on health work and you must get her in-  terested in what you are doing.
 She will be a good friend to you."
 At the appointed hour I went to see the Maharani, quite different  from her husband, very grave, only recently out of purdah and still  keeping a separate palace.
 She knew hardly anything about birth  control, but maintained a welfare center for mothers and infants.
 I had heard from many sources that this class, that class, and the  other class would welcome or oppose birth control, none of which  statements had hitherto proved to be accurate.
 The State Medical  Officer, who was very close to the Maharani, had a further thesis  which he stated as he was taking me to the Maharani's settlement,  a little place where forty or fifty women, each one with a child, were  sitting.
 "These women have been brought up to the duty of having  children and are so shy and modest that they would not listen to  anything on birth control."
 He sounded as though he were antagonistic, but he was merely  indicating the difficulties as he saw them.
 I replied that I had never  yet encountered women who, when the subject was put to them in  a way they could understand, were not eager to hear more.
 I suggested,  "There's a Mohammedan who has a sickly baby.
 How old is she?"
 "Twenty."
 "How many children has she?"
 DEPTH BUT NOT TUMULT 48 1   "Three."
 "Did she have more?"
 "Two died."
 "How old is this one?"
 "Five or six months."
 "Wouldn't she prefer to wait until this baby is strong and well  before she has any more?"
 The woman had no opportunity to answer.
 The whole flock  moved up.
 "I do !
 We do !
 Has this lady something like that ?
 That's  what we want !"
 The medical officer was genuinely astonished.
 "I must tell this to  her Highness."
 When I myself saw the Maharani for the second  time she spoke far more favorably of birth control.
 Eventually I was on my way to Trivandrum, capital of Travan-  core, to lend whatever support I could towards the resolution for  birth control at the All-India Women's Conference.
 The larger part  of the population of this semi-independent southern state was of  Dravidian origin, among whom child marriage scarcely existed.
 Here widows were allowed to remarry, divorce was permissible for  either party, and women occupied a unique position because property  descended to the children of a man's sister rather than to his own.
 Some of the other state guests had already arrived.
 One charm-  ing girl especially attracted me.
 She was warm-hearted, kindly, long-  ing to serve humanity, and prepared to dedicate her life to Gandhi's  teachings.
 When I asked her to what she intended to devote herself,  she answered, "Show the depressed classes that women of my type  can clean their latrines.
 If I can do it, then they will see that it is  not such an unworthy occupation after all."
 Believing this futile, I said, "Don't you think perhaps you're  wasting your efforts ?
 Why not do something constructive, teach the  mothers to wash and feed their children properly?"
 She was determined, however, to sacrifice herself.
 "Gandhi wants  the latrines cleaned."
 The Maharani of Travancore, Sethu Parvathi Bai, was titular  head of the Conference, but the guiding spirit was a Parsee from  Hyderabad, Mrs. Rustomji Feridoonji, a woman in her fifties, hair  almost white, a scholar with command of English, German, and     482 MARGARET SANGER   French, with the polish of India and the West as well, alert and  aware of everything going on in the world.
 She and several like her  were an inspiration to others of the East and could put to shame many  Westerners in their courage and vision.
 They had seen immediately the  necessity of having the movement under the control of public health.
 In what was virtually a form of socialized medicine municipalities  were already sending out midwives, nurses, and doctors to the poor  classes.
 Wherever vaccination went, the birth control advocates  planned to follow with contraceptive information.
 With Mrs. Feri-  doonji and the rest of the committee I helped to draw up a resolu-  tion to this effect.
 The second afternoon the Maharani entertained at a garden party.
 Fountains were splashing, lakes and pools were lustrous in the sun-  light.
 The dancing was executed by children and older girls, the  couples moving round and round, precise little steps this way and  that and up to each other without apparently lifting their feet from  the ground.
 The Maharani and I took a short stroll together and she asked  me particularly to come to her palace the next morning at seven  o'clock.
 I had really no idea why she wanted to see me, and was  uneasy, because the debate over our resolution was to begin at nine.
 Nevertheless, I obeyed her behest.
 We started our conversation with  a pleasant chat about bringing up children, especially when they  were alone in the family without playmates.
 I realized she was hesi-  tating over coming to the point.
 All the time the minutes were slip-  ping by.
 Eventually she took the plunge; her situation as President of the  Congress was very delicate.
 She had been warned that the Catholics  would withdraw from the Conference if the resolution were passed,  and hoped, therefore, I would not find it necessary to speak for it.
 "But," I protested, "I've been invited especially to present this  question."
 "You could substitute another subject which might be of greater  importance to India."
 "But what?"
 I asked.
 "Well," she suggested, "why not brothels ?
 It's a disgrace to have  brothels in India — mind you, there are none in Travancore.
 Indian     DEPTH BUT NOT TUMULT 483   women won't mention them, but you're an American — you can.
 What  we need most is to do away with brothels."
 I could readily see the Maharani's position.
 Her social secretary  wag a Catholic, and large numbers of her Eurasian subjects were  of the same faith.
 But I said the needs of millions of women in India  were more urgent than the demands of a few Catholic missionaries.
 She took it beautifully and agreed.
 "I shall stay here because I feel  the discussion ought to be full and free," she said.
 "I only want you  to tell Mrs. Feridoonji to give your opponents two speakers for every  one on your side."
 There was considerable heat.
 No Indian women were against it,  only converted Eurasians ; all mothers were for it and all those against  it were unmarried.
 Never had I heard so much talk of the lusts and  passions of men as from the latter.
 They put forth the same old argu-  ments, absolutely as though a phonograph record had been sent around  the world.
 Nothing could have been more monotonous, repeated as  they were from press, platform, and books.
 You might challenge  them, break them down, correct them, but to no avail.
 The greater  the vehemence, the more brilliant the opposition thought it had been.
 You had to ask yourself, "How did I phrase that answer twenty  years ago?"
 We were utterly tired out when the vote was at last  counted; we had won by eighty- four to twenty-five.
 The Catholics  kept their word.
 None came back that afternoon.
 But, since it was  the end of the Conference, this also did not matter.
 The following day I was off to lecture in Madras, Anna Jane to  visit in Ceylon.
 The solicitous Joseph intimated he was needed more  to pick up after her than after me.
 "All right," I agreed.
 "But you  don't have to take the luggage with you.
 Put it in my compartment."
 Joseph, however, made a mistake and established me on the wrong  train ; it went no further than Madura.
 The next morning about eleven  everybody was told to get out, and there I was with seventeen pieces  of luggage of my own and as many more of Anna Jane's.
 It so happened that a young doctor of Calicut, Manjeri Sundaram,  had at Trivandrum invited me to speak in his city.
 When I had re-  plied that I could not at this juncture, he had pleaded, "I'll go  wherever you go.
 I must talk to you lots and lots and lots.
 When-  ever you're not sleeping if you'll allow me please to come with you     484 MARGARET SANGER   and talk to you."
 I had discouraged him in a most thorough manner,  but now he came up to help with my luggage and secured coolies to  sit on it while we saw some thirty acres of temple.
 At Madras, in the Tamil country, the turbanless natives were  much darker, the costumes white and uninteresting.
 Sir Vepa Rama-  san took me in charge.
 He was a retired judge of the High Court,  a very imposing man of means who had devoted much of his wealth  to a little Malthusian magazine and stirred things up ever since  1930.
 As was customary, the meeting he had arranged was from five  to six, a period which by Occidentals is spent ordinarily over tea,  cocktails, or aperitifs, but put by the Indians to good use.
 The men  had left their offices by that time; it was cooler and still they could  get home for dinner.
 Sir Vepa, handsome, dominant, erect in bearing, not at all appear-  ing his age, was chairman.
 Once my forty-minute talk was over, he  called for questions in his rich, clear voice.
 A man produced one I  thought was simple, but Sir Vepa eyed him severely, "That is not  allowed!"
 "I'll ask it in a different way."
 And he did so.
 "I still say it is not allowed!"
 "May I ask another ?"
 "Let me hear it."
 Sir Vepa heard it, and dismissed it.
 "That's in the same category  — argument !"
 The man jumped up and protested loudly.
 "Sit down!"
 roared  Sir Vepa, and the man sat as though he had been hit on the head.
 Someone else, five or six seats off, brought up a new question,  which also seemed easy enough to answer.
 But again Sir Vepa ruled,  "That does not belong to the subject !"
 The man wilted.
 Now the first questioner was passing a paper over his shoulder  to a third Indian who shook his head violently; he declined to be  mixed up in it.
 Query after query was disallowed.
 Finally a weak voice on the  side asked about the French birth rate.
 Sir Vepa turned on him  and said, "You look like an intelligent person, but if you have sat  for forty minutes listening to this address, and you have not under-     DEPTH BUT NOT TUMULT 485   stood it, then you are not intelligent enough to warrant a lady's com-  ing ten thousand miles and wasting her breath !"
 The audience was laughing at Sir Vepa's judicial sternness.
 I, on  the other hand, was rather depressed.
 As we were leaving I said  to him, "I wish you had let me reply to them."
 His expression held surprise: "I've been answering them and bat-  tling with these same people for twenty-five years.
 They only come  to confuse.
 They are enemies of the cause and I give them no quar-  ter!"
 That settled the situation in Madras.
 Since I was no more than an hour by motor from Adyar, the former  home of Annie Besant, who had been such an influence in the move-  ment, I made a pilgrimage there.
 As I walked down winding pathways  under huge banyans, cocoanuts, and bananas, ever and again glimps-  ing the lovely water of the Bay in the distance, I imagined I caught  an echo of her words reaching across the decade since I had heard  her explain the philosophy of reincarnation: the more you have  evolved here on earth, the less certain it is that you will have to  return to undo your mistakes — best clear them up as you go  along.
 Annie Besant, as soon as she had become a Theosophist, had  withdrawn her books on population.
 I was interested to find out the  attitude of present Theosophists towards birth control, and discov-  ered that those at Adyar were persuaded of its importance.
 Among  their beliefs was that great souls did not reincarnate unless the bodies  of parents, their vehicles for birth, were perfect.
 If they were to  perform their missions, they must wait for purity in their physical  vestures.
 I had determined to take advantage of Paul Brunton's offer and  visit Sri Ramana Maharshi, the sage of Arunachala, the quondam  Hermit of the Hill of the Holy Beacon, and one of the last of Hin-  dustan's race of noble rishis.
 Consequently, one evening a little after  six, the train came around the bend and I beheld the sacred moun-  tain, according to ancient lore the heart center of the god Siva and,  therefore, of the world.
 I knew it must be the mountain even without  being told so.
 The sun had just set, and the afterglow gave a lovely,  serene effect.
 486 MARGARET SANGER   The Maharshi's secretary, Shastri, met me, and we walked  through the gathering dusk to the guest house about a half-mile  away, a simple room with veranda in front.
 Paul Brunton had not  been able to come because it was the Maharshi's birthday and  thousands of devotees had to be fed.
 Shastri was very loquacious,  and wanted me to realize that the apparent success I was having was  only with the educated classes; the masses knew nothing of it.
 This, I said, would come in time.
 After breakfast I looked out at the great tamarind trees on the  lawn, up and down which monkeys ran.
 Often twenty, from babies  up to grandparents, were in sight all at once.
 The windows had to be  barricaded at night to shut them out of your room ; they especially  loved bananas but did not disdain cakes of soap.
 While I was watching them scamper about, Paul Brunton pedaled  up on a bicycle accompanied by a tonga for me.
 The driver cried out  continually, "Haiee!
 Haiee!"
 which seemed to mean both for people  to get out of the road and for the white bullock to move faster; he  shouted himself hoarse at other drivers, who went higglety-pigglety  this way and that through the streets.
 We stopped at the market for  a few bananas as a gift for the Maharshi; he preferred food to  flowers, because this he could give away.
 Then we trotted along  through the thickly settled village, always hearing far and near the  rumbling of the carts and the screeching of the drivers, "Haiee!
 Haiee!"
 At last we reached the ashram at the bottom of the Hill.
 Shastri  gathered up the bananas in his hands, but no sooner had he turned  to help me out of the tonga than a temple monkey leaped from a  neighboring tree, snatched two of them, and as quick as a flash had  the skins off and had gobbled them down with no concern whatso-  ever as to the ethics of his conduct.
 Instead, he peered around for  another grab.
 Shoes and sandals were left outside the ashram, and Shastri went  ahead to announce my arrival.
 I bowed in the entrance and took  my place on the floor just within, crossed my legs under my skirt,  and looked about me to feel and sense the atmosphere.
 The Ma-  harshi, naked save for a loin cloth, was sitting cross-legged on a silk-  covered couch, pillows behind him and a leopard skin thrown over     DEPTH BUT NOT TUMULT 487   the foot.
 A small charcoal fire and incense, which attendants kept  burning all day, sweetened and made heavy the air.
 The Maharshi's  luminous eyes were fixed in a trance, although sometimes his fan  lifted a bit and his stare widened.
 At first it was nicely quiet ; then some women began to sing in a  high-pitched tone, much through the nose and head, doubtless good  for the pineal gland, once supposed to be the seat of the soul.
 The  men chanted aloud and someone played a stringed instrument.
 Towards eleven the Maharshi shared his gifts among those who  sat in reflection, and shortly afterwards a man from Kashmir, six  feet tall and massively built, entered, prostrated himself as hundreds  had done already, falling full length, hands outspread above him on  the floor, touching his brow three times.
 As he rose again his whole  body shook, tears streamed down his cheeks.
 To see women cry  from excess of emotion did not bother me, but when a man of such  a type as this, in no sense a weakling, went into paroxysms of  ecstasy, it was beyond my comprehension.
 With no critical intent,  but curious to know why he had been so moved, we asked what  had happened to him.
 "When I came into the Maharshi's presence it was as though  electricity had passed through my body.
 I felt when I bowed I  would be calmed, yet when I looked into those eyes, he was like  a flame."
 This pilgrim had come with financial problems, illness in his fam-  ily, and other troubles, but two or three hours of contemplation had  wiped them out; he knew they were insignificant and trivial in con-  trast to his regeneration.
 In faith, the people in the ashram were  comparable to those who cast away their crutches at some miracle-  working shrine, except that they had come for inner illumination  rather than healing for bodily ailments.
 They visited the Maharshi  to receive the radiance of his soul, just as we sought the sun to be  warmed.
 Only when children or babies were made to prostrate themselves  did the Maharshi smile, somewhat skeptically it seemed to me.
 He  appeared amused when a boy of three or four began a prayer in  Tamil but forgot the rest.
 Otherwise he remained apart from it all.
 He was gradually withdrawing himself and letting go material     488 MARGARET SANGER   things.
 He wanted spiritually to fade away, leaving the shell behind.
 The second day the Maharshi slept; nothing save an occasional  singer broke into the hush, or a monkey had the temerity to dash  in and seize an orange.
 For the third day I attended the ashram.
 Now the meditation was  like a linking up of mind and emotion, where even breathing was  stilled.
 I could understand why the yogis went into the silence.
 Even  the noises next door, the clatter of dishes, sounded remote and very  far away.
 It was a state of consciousness rather like that which pre-  cedes sleep.
 I regretted that I did not feel the Maharshi's power.
 His utter  indifference — sitting all day in a semi-trance, engaging in no activ-  ity — seemed to me a waste.
 Nevertheless, I was most grateful to  Paul Brunton for the experience, and understood the Indians better  thereafter.
 They saw within and beyond the external appearance;  this was at the very basis of their character, akin to the sensitivity  of the grapevine telegraph.
 All people in the Orient spoke of it.
 Something happened to you or to me and before you could get to  another place by the fastest conveyance it was known.
 Perhaps it  was a primitive function of mind, this form of thought transference,  but it existed the^e.
 Dr. Sundaram, who popped up again when I returned to Madras,  was still insistent that I go to Calicut, and I finally gave in.
 I was  glad I had done so, because this city of forty thousand, ringed around  a bay on the Malabar Coast and caressed by gentle breezes, was a  beautiful spot with forests of palms.
 The meeting was held in the courtyard of a Buddhist temple.
 The  sun was setting and part of the shell-pink sky was melting into  deep carmine, like a flower.
 Directly in front sat three prjests, each  with shaved head, orange robe, and thick stave.
 Hundreds of rooks  were chattering and other birds twittering in the trees, children  were shouting at their games, the shrill chant of pilgrims walking  through the streets saturated the dust-filled dusk.
 Mainly you heard     DEPTH BUT NOT TUMULT 489   the tinkling of the bullocks going up and down the road.
 The audience  sat in utter silence surrounded by all these sounds.
 Two days later we motored through the heavy woods to Mysore.
 Joseph, still coughing until it racked his frame, had rejoined me.
 I  took my little drug shop and administered Vitamin A and D tab-  lets, curing him and achieving thereby a reputation.
 Other Indians  began hunting up colds and asthma and pains, and coming to me  to give them some American medicine, in which they had much  faith.
 Soon I was on the train to Bangalore, again as state guest.
 The  Dewan of Mysore, Sir Mirza Ismail, knew everybody in Europe,  was well informed on Western methods of health, and was full of  ideas about public buildings, roads, streets, industries, and the great  dam which was to furnish electricity for the state.
 He was the first  person in India who inquired after Katherine Mayo.
 I had been ex-  pecting to meet antagonism because of Mother India, which I my-  self now considered misleading.
 Certainly the conditions when I  was there seemed vastly different from those she had ( depicted only  a few years earlier.
 The British believed every word true, but most of the Indians I  saw looked upon Miss Mayo as having gone into their homes and  then betrayed their confidences.
 They claimed she was definitely  prejudiced, and, like the clever craftsman she was, had fixed her  statistics.
 For example, when she discussed the age of marriage, she  made sweeping statements and quoted on page so and so of such  and such a report ; you turned there and they were correct, and that  was the reason for the astounding acceptance of her book.
 Never-  theless, she had violated the spirit, because two pages further in the  same report followed an explanation of, or exception to, her con-  clusions.
 Mirza Ismail, a ^Mohammedan, thought she had benefited Indians  by shaking them awake, and that the facts she had brought out, even  if not true of all the country, should be corrected; that India had  to defend herself was good for her.
 After visiting Hyderabad, which was pleasant and social, and  after seeing this startling landscape in which the mountains seemed  to have been smashed by a giant maul into enormous pieces, I started     490 MARGARET SANGER   towards home.
 India was a land of dramatic contrasts — the highest  mountains, the hottest plains, the densest jungles, the most violent  rains.
 The loveliest architecture in the world was set against a back-  ground of nauseating squalor.
 Wealth beyond calculation existed  alongside poverty that was living death, dazzling mental attainments  beside an ignorance utterly abysmal.
 I could not tell precisely what  the results of the trip had been ; these rarely came immediately.
 And,  if you had to hammer away and hammer away for years in the United  States, you had to do it ten times over in India.
 A terrific change in temperature froze me at Hong Kong ; the poor  huddled around little fires in the streets.
 Dr. Arthur Woo, a Rocke-  feller Foundation protege, enthusiastic, full of energy, like magic  procured quarters for me in one of the crowded hotels on the top  floor, quiet and restful but, oh, how cold !
 According to my schedule I was to remain twenty- four hours,  into which were to be crammed a lunch, a tea, a lecture, a Chinese  supper, and a public meeting.
 Then I decided to stay over a day for  a medical gathering.
 Ho Kum Tong, a wealthy Chinese, provided  another luncheon in his beautiful home.
 In Hong Kong I heard rumors of a practical scholar in eugenics,  in which the Chinese were very much interested.
 He was said to have,  in addition to a wife, thirty concubines, by each of whom he had had  three children.
 One of the Negro offspring — tall, kinky-haired, and  oblique-eyed — was a most extraordinary-looking youth; he did not  appear to belong anywhere.
 The daughters were much larger of stat-  ure than the average Chinese ; all were educated and doing excellent  work.
 Not only the features of the cultured types on the Island, but  even those of the coolies, the longshoremen, struck me as growing  less Oriental and more Anglo-Saxon, the foreheads fuller, the eyes  less slanting.
 When I reached Japan I found that Westernization had leaped  ahead.
 Tokyo was not the same city I had seen in 1922 — automobiles  and wide-paved streets, many bicycles, many men and small chil-  dren in European dress.
 Everywhere also was an atmosphere of tense-  ness on account of the assassination of the cabinet members about  ten days before.
 Telephone communication in English was forbid-  den; people in Yokohama were unable to get to Tokyo because all     DEPTH BUT NOT TUMULT 49I   transportation was cut off.
 War seemed inevitable.
 Baroness Ishimoto  told me the activities of her organization had been curtailed, but ar-  ticles and discussion and the spreading of knowledge had continued.
 The dissemination now was as it had been in France — from house to  house, family to family, by word of mouth instead of under proper  auspices.
 At the end of a dismal voyage to Honolulu, I had hardly registered  at the hotel when I heard a feminine voice in my ear, "Are you Mrs.  Sanger ?"
 "Yes."
 Dr. Muriel Cass, as this welcoming committee turned out to be,  knew that I was recently out of a hospital, and disappeared for a few  moments to telephone for a doctor.
 When he arrived she said, "All  we want of you is to give Mrs. Sanger something to keep her going.
 She's got eight lectures to deliver."
 I felt like a poor old war horse being fed the last measure of oats.
 I had a horrible memory of two weeks of fog and rain and cold at  Memorial Hospital in Hong Kong, and now here I was to die in  Honolulu.
 But Dr. Cass, an efficient, self-sacrificing manager, did the most  amazing things for me.
 She ordered the telephone operator to switch  every call to her.
 There I was, quite alone.
 Nobody could see me or  even talk to me ; I must conserve my strength for the meetings.
 Re-  peatedly she rushed me to and from halls, put me in cars, and trun-  dled me off to bed.
 Really I was better after each lecture than I had  been before.
 When I left Honolulu she herself was so worn out she  had to take a vacation, but I was nearly well.
 The hospitality and luxuriance of this Pacific paradise were almost  indescribable.
 Hula-hulas at the hotels, bathing on the beaches, out-  riggers swooping in, the native women in great flowered Mother Hub-  bards twining leis, the songs they sang, the air of leisure and fun and  play, these made Honolulu a city apart.
 It was the sounding board  of the Orient, people going, people coming back, but all there to en-  joy themselves.
 In Honolulu I repacked and, to save space, stuffed Grant's tiger  skin in the trunk around my box of Darjeeling tea.
 When, four weeks  later, I ripped off the cover at Willow Lake, it was reeking with cam-     492 MARGARET SANGER   phor.
 I tried to aerate the leaves, dry them out, fumigate them with  sunshine, but it remained moth ball tea.
 One package I had given  away before I discovered the tragedy.
 Its receipt was ignored.
 No  thank-you letter, no mention of it.
 The other friends to whom I  had planned to present this choice gift had to go without.
 I spent the summer at Willow Lake and in the winter, remember-  ing Arizona from the time I had been there with Stuart, went out  again in response to the summons of the desert.
 My husband and I  found a house near Tucson of adobe, trimmed in blue.
 The moun-  tains, not distant or aloof or towering over all, reached into the sky,  but they were also somehow intimate, cupping the town gently on  all four sides.
 You settled there in the Catalina foothills and felt such a part of  the whole.
 The first thing when you opened your eyes, before actual  dawn, you beheld the gold and purple and then the entire sky break  into color.
 In the evening the sunsets were reflected on the moun-  tains in pink-lavender shades ; sometimes the glow sprayed from the  bottom upward, like the footlights of a theater, until the tips were  aflame.
 Sunset vanished as quickly as sunrise, never lingering long.
 When the marvel of spring came to the desert, you saw the cactus  and the flowering, saw the brown floor change to delicate pale yellow,  stood in awe of nature daring to live without water.
 You were re-  minded of the futility of wearing out your life merely providing  food and raiment.
 Like the challenge of death, which so many of the  people there were gallantly facing, the desert itself was a challenge.
 Chapter Thirty-nine     SLOW GROWS THE SPLENDID PATTERN     "There is no force in the world so great as that of an idea when  its hour has struck."
 The years run through it like  a road winding through a valley.
 With the passage of time you get  a far-sweeping view, and the small details become blurred and dif-  ficult to recall.
 I wonder whether there should not be a school course  to emphasize the importance of keeping diaries, so that you would  know the really momentous happenings to put down.
 Mostly you  scribble notes intended to call up a picture rather than an actual ac-  count of what has happened — memoranda of dates, engagements and  events, leaving the results to recollection.
 Some inequality in this  chronicle as to what is significant and what is not — some gaps in my  remembrance of events — may have been the result.
 It is strange what tricks the mind can play.
 My father, the per-  son who had done most in shaping my growth, died in 1926 at the  age of eighty.
 The day he was buried in Corning I was passing the  bank on the corner of the town square with my brothers Dick  and Bob, and we chanced to glance simultaneously at the clock tower.
 Faintly startled, we gazed at each other and Dick exclaimed, "Look  at that little tiny thing !
 I've always thought it was as big as the Eiffel  Tower!"
 In all of our travels each of us had been convinced that nothing  ever was so tall as that tower.
 That can happen to so many youthful  memories.
 Months and miles that seemed so long then are so short  later.
 493     494 MARGARET SANGER   The same year that took my father summoned also my sister Mary,  whose cruel immolation at the shrine of family duty had obliged her  to forego marriage ; even though I had seen her but seldom, she, too,  had had an important influence over me and remained a dear presence  whose loss I felt deeply.
 Out of eleven children seven are still living.
 Families have a separate and distinct role in your existence.
 They  are closer yet more apart than friends, but often you discover that  you have nothing save the ties of childhood to keep you together.
 What I have been able to contribute to the birth control movement  has been the result of forces which set a clear design almost from in-  fancy, each succeeding circumstance tracing the lines more sharply:  my being born into a family so large as to be in part responsible for  my mother's premature death; my preparation as a nurse, which  awoke me to the sorrows of women ; the inspiration of having come  into contact with great minds and having claimed many as friends.
 It may have been destiny as some have said — I do not know.
 To have helped carry the cause thus far has been at times strenu-  ous, but I have never considered it a sacrifice.
 Every conscious hour,  night and day, in any city, in any country, has brought its compensa-  tions.
 My life has been joyous and exulting and full because it has  touched profoundly millions of other lives.
 It is ever a privilege to be  a part of something unquestionably proved of value, something so  fundamentally right.
 From time to time wonder is expressed that so much has been ac-  complished in so short a period.
 The fact remains that in an era when  huge fortunes have been spent in alleviating human misery progress  has been painfully slow.
 Countless women still die before their time  because the bit of knowledge essential to very life is still not theirs.
 Birth control must seep down until it reaches the strata where the need  is greatest ; until it has been democratized there can be no rest.
 It is true that great advances have been made in the realm of  theory.
 You can almost tell people's age now by their attitude towards  birth control.
 To the young it is merely one of the accepted facts ; if  questioned, they assume the whole matter must have been settled long  ago.
 Over and over again in the past a new epoch has adopted a con-     SLOW GROWS THE SPLENDID PATTERN 495   cept censured by the preceding one, and has wondered derisively  how its forefathers could have been so blind to anything so obvious.
 The use of anesthetics for mothers in childbirth was once condemned  as an unholy attempt to escape the Biblical curse pronounced against  all women, and, similarly, evolution as striking at the roots of Chris-  tianity.
 Battles over impiety, heresy, blasphemy, obscenity have been  fought, temporarily lost, and finally won.
 Science whittles away such  obstructions little by little.
 "The Moving Finger writes ; and having  writ moves on."
 In January, 1937, in that same Town Hall where fif-  teen years before I had been forbidden to speak, and whence I had  been haled into court, I was honored with a medal.
 Pearl Buck said on  one occasion, "The cause conquers because youth is for you.
 I have  lived in China so long, and know what it is to wait until the old ones  die and the young can do what is necessary to be done."
 I am glad  both my sons are doctors with a background of human interest to  which has been added a scientific quality of mind that can aid in push-  ing the horizon of service further into the future.
 I am often asked, "Aren't you happy now that the struggle is over ?"
 But I cannot agree that it is.
 Though many disputed barricades have  been leaped, you can never sit back, smugly content, believing that  victory is forever yours ; there is always the threat of its being snatched  from you.
 All freedom must be safeguarded and held.
 Jubilation is  unwarranted while the world is in warring turmoil, each political unit  trying to hold on to what it has — some threatening to take it away  and others looking covetously towards outlets in countries not yet  completely filled.
 The application of the movement to nations which  should, in the interests of peace, control their populations, must en-  dure.
 Before 19 14 the world trend was towards unity and peace.
 But a  typhoon then caught us and turned us upside down.
 We began to  whirl violently in one direction — that of individual and national eman-  cipation, until at last the great wind blew crowns from the heads of  Tsars and Kaisers, sweeping power into the hands of the populace.
 When that War had first burst upon a shocked world people every-  where stood aghast and wept for the slaughter of men they did not  know.
 But after four years, in self-defense, they armored themselves     496 MARGARET SANGER   against the emotion which should be aroused by any cruelty, and be-  came calloused and hardened until the deaths of thousands left na-  tions unmoved.
 Then came the vortex, the center, of the storm, and we awaited  breathless the approach of the opposite edge.
 Everything had been  lashed down in readiness, the life lines had been strengthened.
 Finally,  all we had considered constant in rational thought, morals, ethics,  started to go with equal violence in the other direction towards dicta-  torship and nationalism and race prejudice — a giving over of indi-  vidual freedom.
 The immediacy of the deaths of women in childbirth  seemed so small in comparison, of so little consequence; no longer  were felt the pains of problems which used to be of such deep concern.
 Over and over again I hear, "How do you fit birth control into a  world in which dictators are clamoring for more and yet more peo-  ple?"
 I can only answer that momentum must now derive its power  from some other source than arousing sympathy.
 The present insensi-  tivity is due to a horror of hovering peril.
 The Greeks, with their innate genius for dramatizing basic truths  in images of telling beauty, established of old the relay torch race, or  Lampadephoria, in honor of the Titan Prometheus, who had bestowed  the divine gift of fire upon humanity.
 The contest was held at night,  the great flambeaux being appropriately kindled at the altar of Eros.
 Participation was not a distinction indiscriminately conferred ; those  elect were fitted by discipline to hand on the vital flame, just as parents  need training before becoming eligible for their grave responsibilities.
 The figures speeding around the course symbolize the passing on of  the spark of life from generation to generation.
 Each runner must de-  liver his torch undimmed to his successor.
 "Build thou beyond thyself," said Nietzsche, and this the birth con-  trol movement is doing.
 All peoples will in the future have greater  regard for the quality of the bodies and brains which must be equipped  for the task of building the future civilization; birth control will be  the cornerstone of that great structure.
 INDEX     ' ggg- tft- fff .
 ff f m     Abbott, Leonard, 74   Abortion, 8gfl., 217, 285, 449, 450   Academy of Medicine, 181, 358, 404, 405,   410  Acker mann, Frances Brooks, 188, 260,   261, 392, 395, 417  Adams, Maude, 37, 38  Agra, 479   Albany, N.Y., 208, 292, 411  Aldred, Guy, 136, 274  Allahabad, 479  Allison, Van Kleek, 207, 211  American Birth Control League, 300,   359, 369, 392ff., 409, 415  American Civil Liberties Union, 309  American Federation of Labor, 78, 80,   421  American Medical Association, 416, 421,   430  American Public Health Association, 298  American Women's Association, 413  Ankelsaria, Dr., 476ff.
 Anti-Religious Museum, Leningrad, 440  Arizona, 459, 460, 491  Armory Exhibition, N.Y., 68  Ashley, Jessie, 71, 96, 100, 101, 207, 232,   234, 252, 264  Astor, Lady Nancy, 390, 391  Atlanta Ga., 413   Bamberger, Charles J., 176, 258  Barber, Billy, 434  Barber-Surgeons' Hall, 462, 463  Barcelona, I54fr.
 Baroda, 479ff.
 Bedborough Trial, 135  Bell, George H., Commissioner of Li-  censes, 252  Bellamy, Edward, 268     Bellows, George, 74   Belmont, Mrs. O. P., 381   Benares, 476, 478ff.
 Bendix, Dr. Kurt, 389   Bennett, Arnold, 186, 371   Berger, Victor, 83   Berkman,' Alexander, 71, 314   Berlin, 1920, 28off.
 ; 1927, 388   Besant, Annie, 127, 142, 172, 485   Bijur, Justice Nathan, 252   Bird, Mrs. Charles Sumner, 460   Birth Control, history of, 125-129; mo-  rality of, 298, 301 ; origin of name, 107,  108   Birth Control Review, 252ff., 393, 395   Bland, J. O. P., 299   Block, Anita, 76, 96, 180   Blossom, Frederick A., 198, 210, 251,   253ff-  Bocker, Dr. Dorothy, 358ff.
 'Bombay, 466ff.
 Borah, Senator William E., 420, 422  Bose, Sir Jagardis Chandra, 475  Boston, Mass., 207  Boyce, Neith, 96  Boyd, Mary, 362  Boyle, Gertrude, 208, 296  Bradlaugh, Charles, 127, 142  Brattleboro, Vt., 368  Bratton, Senator Sam.
 G, 420  Brevoort Hotel dinner, i87ff.
 British Museum, 124I, 130, 142  Brooklyn Eagle, 221  Brooklyn, Raymond Street Jail, 221 ff.
 Broun, Heywood, 263, 293, 373  Browne, F. W. Stella, 129  Brownsville, clinic, 2i3ff.
 ; mothers, 231,   244, 414  Brunton, Paul, 462, 486  Brush, Charles, 417  Bryan, William Jennings, 39  Buck, Pearl, 495  Buckmaster, Lord, 37of., 398     497     498 INDEX   Buckner, Emory R., 313ft.
 Bullitt, Ambassador William C, 443ft.
 Bundesen, Dr. Herman, 361   Bureau of Social Hygiene, 78   Burns Detective Agency, 406   Byrne, Mrs. Ethel, 95, i86f., 208, 216,   224-234  Byrne, Jack, 42   Cairo, Egypt, 352 ff.
 Calcutta, 47 iff.
 Calicut, 488f.
 Call, New York, 74, 76ff., 109   Cap dA.il, 380   Caraway, Senator Hattie, 422   Carlile, Richard, 114   Carpenter, Alice, 187   Carpenter, Mrs. Benjamin, 361   Carpenter, Edward, 121, i3of., 139, 186   Carr-Saunders, Sir A. M., 379   Cass, Dr. Muriel, 491   Catalans, l62ff.
 Catholics, I9ff., 218, 294, 303ff., 41 iff.
 Catholic Welfare Conference, 415   Caucasus, 454ff.
 Chance, Clinton, 359, 379   Chautauqua, 34, 39   Chicago Conference, 361   Chicago, speaking experience in, 196   Clapp, Elsie, 118   Claverack College and Hudson River In-  stitute, 35ff.
 Clayton, Judge, 186, 189   Clinic, anecdotes, 399ff.
 ; Brownsville,  2i3ff., 310; Dutch, I43ff., 290; English,  296; Massachusetts, 211; New York,  211, 298, 358, 398-407; origin of term,  143 ; plans to establish, igoi.
 ; Russia,  436ff.
 Comstock, Anthony, 77, 176   Comstock Law, 77, ill, 130, 182, 414, 427   Confederation Generate de Travail, 101   Conference, Chicago, 361 ; First National  Birth Control, 298ff.
 ; Fifth Inter-     national, 337, 354; Los Angeles, 416;   Regional, 416; Sixth International   Malthusian and Birth Control, 369ff.
 ;   World Population Conference, Geneva,   376-388 ; Zurich, 4o8ff.
 Connecticut, birth control legislation,   293f.
 Content, Assistant District Attorney   Harold A., 115, 120, i8off., 189  Contraception, 104, 143, 290, 363^, 407ff.
 Cooper, John M., Ph.D., 415  Copeland, Senator Royal S., 427  Cornell Medical School, 433  Corning, N.Y., 11, 19, 24, 27L, 43, 493  Corrigan, Magistrate Joseph E., 306  Coughlin, Father Charles E., 425  Courtney, Lieutenant Joseph, 313  Cousins, Margaret, 461  Cox, Harold, 172, 272, 296, 299, 303f.
 Crane, Judge Frederick E., 292, 296  Crew, Dr. A. F., 380  Cummings, Attorney General, 428   Darjeeling, India, 475   Darrow, Clarence, 185   Dave, Victor, ioof.
 Davenport, C. B., 374   Dawson, Baron, of Penn, 2941., 37of., 411   Day, Mrs. George H., Sr., 293, 396, 415   Debs, Eugene V., 69L, 351   Delafield, Mrs. Lewis L., 230, 304, 396   Dennett, Mary Ware, l8of., 189, 414, 416   Denver, Colo., 201   de Silver, Albert, 309   Detroit, 366   de Vilbiss, Dr. Lydia Allen, 298, 358   Dick, Mrs. Alexander C, 417   Dickinson, Dr. Robert L., 404I, 407, 430   Di Gregorio, John, 81   Dineen, Monsignor Joseph P., 304ff.
 Dodge, Mabel, 72ff.
 Dolphin, Martin W., 3i2ff.
 Donohue, Captain Thomas, 304ff.
 Drummond, Sir Eric, 379, 386   Drysdale, Bessie, 128, 290, 296   Drysdale, Dr. Charles R., 128, 143   Drysdale, Dr. C. V., i28ff., 178, 290, 296,   373  Drysdale, Dr. George, 128  Dunlop, Dr. Binnie, 129, 170  Durant, Ida Kaufman, 75  Durant, Will, 75, 434  Dutch Neo-Malthusian League, I43ff.
 INDEX '     499     East, Professor E. M., 364, 387   Eastman, Crystal, 108   Eastman, Max, 182, 185   Eddy, Sherwood, 435, 448   Egypt, 352ff.
 Ellis, Edith, 137ft., 176   Ellis, Havelock, 75, 94, 133-141, 166,   276ff., 286, 370  England, 1914, i22ff.
 ; 1915, i69ff., 268ff.
 ;   1922, 354f.
 ; 1924, 370ff.
 ; 1927, 379,   381 ; 1936, 462ff.
 Enright, Police Commissioner, 302  Equi, Dr. Marie, 2051.
 Erie Railroad, 25  Ernst, Morris, 404, 4o6ff., 427  Esther, 36, 45  Ettor, Joe, 80, 83  Eugenics, 374f., 415   Fabian Hall address, 170  Fabian Society, Liverpool, 122  Fairchild, Professor Henry Pratt, 387,   420  Family Limitation, 112, 117, H9f., 121,   176, 182, i84f., 206, 232, 253, 262, 321,   342  Federal Council of Churches of Christ in   America, 411  Federal Legislation, 414-428  Feminists, 187   Ferch, Johann and Betty, 373L  Feridoonji, Mrs. Rustomji, 48 iff.
 Ferrer, Francisco, 74, 123, i62f.
 Ferrer School, 74  Fischer, Louis, 448  Fishbein, Dr. Morris, 417  Fishkill, 357  Fitzgerald, Adelaide, 54  Fitzpatrick, George, 68  Flack, Principal of Claverack, 39  Flynn, Elizabeth Gurley, 72, 79  Flynn, Tom, 79  France, 99ff., 153  Freschi, Judge John J., 229  Frick, Henry Clay, 72  Friedrichshaven, 289^  Frohman, Charles, 36L  Fruits of Philosophy, i26f.
 Fuller, Orson, phrenologist, 19   Gaekwar of Baroda, 48off.
 Galdos, Perez, 164  Gandhi, 462, 465, 467ft., 481     Garth, Dr. William H., 396   Gartz, Kate Crane, 214   Gassoway, Percy, 427   General Federation of Women's Clubs,   430  Geneva, Switzerland, 378ff.
 Genss, Dr. Abram B., 450  George, Henry, 17 f., 204, 268  Germany, 253f., 377, 388  Gillett, Senator Frederick Huntington,   419, 422  Gilman, Charlotte Perkins, 108  Gini, Corrado, 385  Giovanitti, Arturo, 80, 83  Giovanitti, Carrie, 81  Glasgow, Scotland, 96ff., 274ff.
 Globe, New York, 74, 90  Goff, Judge John W., 314!
 Goldman, Emma, 72, 203, 207, 314  Goldstein, Dr. Ferdinand, 373  Goldstein, J. J., 224-238, 258, 305  Goldstein, Rabbi Sidney, 420  Gompers, Samuel, 78, 83  Grotjahn, Dr. Alfred, 388  Guy, Harry, 463   Hague, Netherlands, 145   Haire, Dr. Norman, 290   Hall, Bolton, 207, 234   Halton, Dr. Mary, 188, 2i2f., 266, 296I   Hancock, Representative Frank, 423   Hand, Judge Augustus, 427   Hand, Judge Learned, 427   Hanihara, Masanao, 318   Hapgood, Hutchins, 74, 96   Harman, Moses, 374   Harris, Dr. Louis T., 407   Harum, David, 44   Hastings, Senator Daniel O., 426f.
 Hastings-on-Hudson, 61 ff., 96   Hatfield, Senator Henry D., 423, 426   Hatting, Magistrate Peter A., 311   Hawthorne, Charles, 96   Hayes, Archbishop Patrick J., 299, 3o6ff.
 Haynes, E. P. C, 172   Haywood, William (Big Bill), 70, 75,   80, 84, 96, ioof., 104, 264  Hazel, Judge, 115, 118, 120, 180  Healey, Representative Arthur D., 424  Health Day, Moscow, 444  Henri, Robert, 74  Hepburn, Mrs. Thomas, 188, 293, 395,   417     500 INDEX   Herrmann, Justice Moses, 229   Higgins, Anne Purcell, 11, 16, 27, 41   Higgins, Bob, 493   Higgins, Dick, 493   Higgins, Ethel, 22, 26, 42ft.
 ; see Byrne   Higgins, Henry George McGlynn, 29ff.
 Higgins, Joe, 27   Higgins, Mary, 141., 34, 63, 494   Higgins, Michael Hennessey, I2ff., 27ff.,   41 ff., 114, 208, 265, 493  Higgins, Nan, 341., 59, 63, 265  Himes, Professor Norman, 3651.
 Hindus, Maurice, 434  Hirschfeld, Dr. Magnus, 2861.
 Hirshfield, David F., 313  Hogan, Assistant District Attorney, 406  Holden, Dr. Frederick C, 407  Holland, see Netherlands  Holland-Rantos Co., 364, 396  Holmes, John Haynes, 253  Holt, Dr. Emmett, 2971.
 Hong Kong, 348ff., 490  Honolulu, 3181., 491  Horder, Baron Thomas, 463  Houghton family of Corning, 28; see   Hepburn  How-Martyn, Edith, 170, 379, 382, 386,   409, 46S  Howe, Marie, 108  Hu-Shih, Dr., 340, 342, 347  Hull House, 196  Huxley, Julian, 379  Hyderabad, 489  Hylan, Mayor, 312L   Ibsen, 435   India, 351, 461-490   Indianapolis, 199   Industrial Workers of the World, 69, 80,   102, 204f., 265, 447  Inge, Dean, 273, 377f.
 Ingersoll, Colonel Robert G., 2of.
 Institute for Experimental Medicine,   Russia, 441  Institute for Protection of Motherhood   and Children, Russia, 441, 450  Institute of Politics, Williamstown, 377  International Information Center, 461  Ireland, 277ff.
 Ishimoto, Baron Keikichi, 296, 319  Ishimoto, Baroness Shidzue, 296, 3i9f.,   322f., 491  Ismail Mirza, 489     Israel, Rabbi Edward L., 424  Italy, overpopulation, 377   Jacobs, Dr. Aletta, 142, 148, 374, 408  Jacoby, Dr. Abraham, 181, 188  Japan, 295!, 317-336, 346, 377, 490  Jaures, Jean, 101, 143  Jensen, Fru Thit, 373  Johnson, Alvin, 384  Johnson, Professor Roswell H., 420  Junior League, 420   Kahn, Dr. Morris H., 226   Kaizo, 296, 316, 320, 325, 327   Kalimpong, 474   Kaminsky, Dr., 448ff.
 Kato, Baron Admiral, 318   Kaufman, Viola, 416, 428I   Kavanoky, Dr. Nadina, 437   Kennedy, Anne, 261, 292, 301, 303, 305,   396, 41S  Kennedy, Dr. Foster, 407  Key, Ellen, m, 389, 435  Keynes, John Maynard, 354f., 376  Killarney, 277   Kingsbury, John A., 414, 434  Knights of Labor, 20  Knoblauch, Mary, 252, 260, 351  Knopf, Dr. S. Adolphus, 364  Knowlton, Dr. Charles, 126  Knox, Assistant District Attorney, 189  Kollwitz, Kathe, 284  Komroff, Manuel, 74  Korea, 327f.
 Kyoto, 334ff.
 Lahey, Chief Inspector, 309   Lapouge, Dr. G. O., 372   Larkin, Jim, 351   Latz Foundation, 412   Lawrence textile workers' strike, 8off.
 League of Nations, 378f., 383   Lebedova, Dr., 450   Lectures, Albany, 208; Boston, 207;  Brattleboro, Vt, 367^ ; Calcutta, 472;  Calicut, 488; Chicago, 197; Colgate  University, 365L ; Denver, 201 ; De-  troit, 366 ; Glasgow, 274ff .
 ; Indianap-  olis, 199 ; Ku Klux Klan, 366L ; Los  Angeles, 203; Madras, 484; Minne-  apolis, 198; Pittsburgh, 196; Portland,     INDEX     50I     Ore., 204; St. Louis, 198; San Fran-  cisco, 203 ; subject matter, I93ff.
 ;  Tokyo, 327; Women's Co-operative  Guild, London, 274   Lehr, Representative John C, 424   Lewis, Burdette G., 228   Liebknecht, Karl, 284   Lifshiz, Anna, 2iof., 258, 259, 428   Lippmann, Walter, 74, 188, 199   Little, Clarence C, 374, 378, 386   Livadia, 456   Liverpool, 1914, I22ff.
 London, 124, 268; see England   Lopokouva, Lydia, 355   Los Angeles, 203   Lusitania, 176   Luxemburg, Rosa, 112, 284   McAdoo, Chief Magistrate, 403, 405  McCann, Warden Joseph, 240, 245  McCarran, Senator Pat, 4261.
 McCormack, Mrs. Stanley, 383  MacFadden, Bernarr, 145  McGraw, Mrs. William, Sr., 366  Mclnerney, Justice, 177, 226  McNamara, Patrolwoman Anna, 403, 406  Madras, 484ff.
 Maharani, see Baroda and Travancore  Maharshi, Sri Ramana, 462, 48sff.
 Mallet, Sir Bernard, 379, 3851.
 Malthus, Thomas Robert, 94, 125, 433  Malthusian League, 127; see Neo-Mal-   thusian  Malthusianism, 387, 449  Manhattan Eye and Ear Hospital, 55  Marion, Kitty, 2S6ff.
 Married Love, 1711. ; see Marie Stopes  Marsh, Robert McC, 304, 312  Martin, Anne, 273  Martin, Mrs. Marjorie, 382  Marx, Karl, 68, 275, 439!
 Maternal Health Committee, 410  Mayo, Katherine, 461, 489  Megaw, Sir John, 464  Mehta, Mrs. Soudamini, 472  Mencken, H. L., 416  Mensinga, 143, 408  Methodists, 35L, 38, 421  Mill, John Stuart, 125  Millard, Dr. C. Killick, 273  Milwaukee, 411   Mindell, Fania, 197, 2i4ff., 230, 258  Minor, Robert, 200     Mischkind, Rabbi, 410   Missionaries in China, 344   Moffatt, Mrs. Douglas, 420   Moley, Professor Raymond, 307   Montserrat, 162   Moore, Mrs. Hazel, 41 7f.
 Morgan, Anne, 414   Morrow, Dr.
 Prince, 78   Moscow, 439, 443ff.
 Moscowitz, Judge Grover, 427   Motherhood in Bondage, 362   Mother India, 489   Moyston, Guy, 364   Muhsam, Erich, 288   Mundell, Dr. Joseph J., 4241.
 Murphy, Patrolman Thomas J., 31 iff.
 Mussolini, 377   Mysore, 489   Naidu, Mrs. Sarojini, 466   National Birth Control League, 108, 180,  189, 196, 414   National Catholic Welfare Conference,  423   National Committee on Federal Legisla-  tion for Birth Control, 417   National Council of Jewish Women, 429   Nehru, Jawaharlal, 462, 479   Neo-Malthusian League, 124, 128, 169,  272, 290   Neo-Malthusian movement, 103, 107,  i46ff., 169, 285, 290   Netherlands, 142-149   New Jersey, legislation, 294   New York County Medical Society, 405   New York Society for Suppression of  Vice, 77, 176, 258   New York State Birth Control League,  211   New York State law, 211, 224, 292   New York Women's Publishing Com-  pany, 260   Norris, Senator, 419   Norton, Hon.
 Mary T., 420   Nursing training and experience, 46-57,  86-92   O'Brien, Joseph, 96  Odling, Mrs. Norman, 473ff.
 O'Keefe, Judge George J., 229  O'Ryan, Major General John J., 295  Osborne, Thomas Mott, 198, 242     502 !
 INDEX   O'Shea, William, 392   Owen, Robert, 126   Owen, Stanley, see Lord Buckmaster     Pandit, Ranji Sitaram, 479   Pankhurst, Emmeline, 112, 256, 293   Pankhurst, Sylvia, 276   Parents' Exhibition, 392   Paris, 99, 153   Park Avenue subway explosion, 57   Parker, Robert Allerton, 252   Parsons, Elsie Clews, 189   Paterson silk strike, 84   Pearl, Dr. Raymond, 364, 386   Peddie Institute, 43 if.
 Peking, 339ff.
 Peking National University, 340   Peking Union Medical College, 342   Pepper, 359   Pessary, 143, 427   Peterson, Dr. Frederick, 297   Philips, Anna Jane, 462ff.
 Philips, Mrs. John, 461   Physical Culture, 145, 152   Pictorial Review, 180   Pierce, Representative Walter M., 424   Pillay, Dr. A. P., 465   Pinchot, Amos, 192, 233   Pinchot, Mrs. Amos (Minturn), 229,  2321., 410   Pissoort, Dr. Elizabeth, 403   Pittsburgh, Pa., first state league, 196   Pivot of Civilization, 299   Place, Francis, 126, 294   Pollock, Simon H., 118   Pope, 41 iff.
 Population, Chinese, 347L ; conference at  Geneva, 376-387; historical resume,  I25ff.
 ; Japanese, 298, 326; Russian,  450; United States, 376; world, 376ff.
 Porter, Noel, 274   Portet, Lorenzo, 123, I53ff.
 Portland, Ore., 204   Post Office, New York, no, 261   Potter, Rev.
 Charles Francis, 420   Prison experiences, 221 ff., 240-250   Prostitution, Chinese, 3451.
 Protestant Episcopal Church, 410   Provincetown, Mass., 95 ff., 264   Putnam, Major General G. P., 172, 377   Queens County Penitentiary, 240-250     Rabbis, Central Conference of, 411   Rai, Lajpat, 351   Raid, Brownsville, 310; Fifteenth Street   Clinic, 402ff.
 Ramasan, Sir Vepa, 484^  Rappard, Williams, 378  Raugh, Mrs. Enoch, 196  Rauh, Ida, 207, 234  Raymond Street Jail, 22 iff.
 Reed, John, 70, 84, 182, 264  Reedy, William Marion, I99f.
 Reid, Mrs. Ogden, 306  Reiland, Dr. Karl, 307, 405  Reitman, Ben, 207  Reynal, Eugene Sugney, 54  Rhythm of Sterility and Fertility in   Women, 412, 425  Ridge, Lola, 74  Riese, Dr. Herthe, 389  Riviera, 38off.
 Roberts, Walter A., 252  Robertson- Jones, Mrs. F., 384, 395  Robinson, Dr. William J., 171, 181, 207  Rockefeller, John D., Jr., 78, 315  Rocker, Rudolph and Milly, 28off.
 Rodman, Henrietta, 108, 187I  Roman Catholic, see Catholic  Roosevelt, Theodore, 201  Rose, Florence, 433, 444L  Rosenbluth, Magistrate, 404ff.
 Ross, Edward Alsworth, 94, 364, 434  Ruben- Wolf, Dr. Marthe, 388, 449  Rublee, Juliet Barrett, 30off., 3ioff., 395  Russell, Chief Justice Richard B., 413  Russell, Lillian, 37  Russia, 290, 433-459  Rutgers, Dr. Hoitsema, i43ff., 290, 408  Ryan, Monsignor John A., 415, 423   Sacco-Vanzetti, 384   Sachs case, 8gff.
 St. Moritz, 390   San Francisco, 203   Sanger, Grant, 65!, 76, 95, 97, 99, 116,  266I, 3i6ff., 332, 340, 350, 352ff., 43i ff-,  437, 443*-, 459, 475, 491   Sanger,.
 Margaret, Arizona, 459f., 491;  Brownsville clinic, 213-223 ; Cape Cod,  94ff .
 ; childhood, 24ft.
 ; China, 337-348 ;  Columbia Colony, 61 ; dramatic aspira-  tions, 37 ; Egypt, 352ff .
 ; England, 1914,  I2iff.
 ; 1915, i69ff.
 ; 1920, 268; 1924,  37off.
 ; 1936, 462 ff.
 ; father, see Michael     INDEX     503     Hennessey Higgins; Federal indict-  ment, 114-120, 180-190; Fourteenth  Street apartment, 208, 266; France,  100-105; Geneva, 376-388; Germany,  1920, 280-290; 1927, 388ff.
 ; Glasgow,  1913, 96ft.
 ; 1920, 273I ; home, Corning,  12, Hastings, 61 ff., Tucson, 459f., 491,  Willow Lake, 357 ; Hong Kong, 349f .,  490; India, 461-490; Japan, 316-336;  Korea, 3371.; lecture tour, 1916, 192-  208; Liverpool, I22ff.
 ; marriage to  William Sanger, 58ft.
 ; marriage to  J. N. H. Slee, 355ff .
 ; mother, see Anne  Purcell Higgins; Netherlands, 142-  149 ; nurse, 46-57, 86-92 ; Post Avenue  apartment, 107; prison term, 238-250;  Provincetown, Mass., 95ff.
 ; radicals,  68-85 ; religious training, 21 ; Russia,  433-459; Sachs case, 89-92; St. Mo-  ritz, 389; St. Nicholas Avenue apart-  ment, 59; Saranac, 58ff.
 ; school, 271.,  33ff.
 ; Scotland, 1913, 96ft.
 ; 1920, 273-  276; sisters, see Mary and Nan Hig-  gins and Ethel Byrne ; Socialism, 75S.
 ;  Spain, 153-168; Switzerland, 299, 376-  391, 4o8ff.
 ; teacher, 40L ; Town Hall  raid, 301-315; trial for Brownsville  clinic, 224-238; Truro, 264; tuber-  culosis, 58; Woman Rebel, 106-120;  World Population Conference, 376-  388 ; Yonkers, 60 ; Zurich, 4o8ff .
 Sanger, Peggy, 65, 95, 97, 99, 103, "6,  175, i8if.
 Sanger, Stuart, 59, 61, 63ff., 66, 75, 95,  97, ioo, 116, 316, 402, 404, 43iff-, 459,  492   Sanger, William, 56, 58, 6off., 66, 68, 76,  104, 136, I76ff., 258   Sangster, Margaret E., 264   Sara, Henry, 136, 173   Saranac, N.Y., 58   Schmid, Dr. Julius, 54, 59   Schmid, Julius, manufacturer, 364   Schreiner, Olive, 11, I38ff.
 Schroeder, Theodore, 112   Scotland, 96ft., 274ft.
 Selincourt, Hugh de, 172I.
 Seoul, 338   Shanghai, 343**-   Shatoff, Bill, 117   Shaw, Bernard, 138, 37if., 411   Siegfried, Andre, 380   Silecchia, Vito, 250, 423     Simkhovitch, Mary, 225   Simonds, Herbert, 364   Sinclair, Upton, 69, 457   Singapore, 35off.
 Skidmore, Consul General at Tokyo, 32of .
 Slee, J. Noah H., 355ff-, 379   Smedley, Agnes, 252, 253, 351, 388, 456   Social agencies, criticism, 196L   Socialism, 23, 68ff., 75L, 96, 109   Spain, 153-168   Spargo, John, 68   Spinney, Mabel, 260   Spinney, William, 245   Spermatoxin, 442   Stalin, 437, 439, 446   Stalingrad, 452   Steffens, Lincoln, 68   Stillman, Clara, 180   Stoddard, Lothrop, 302   Stokes, J. G. Phelps, 7s   Stokes, Rose Pastor, 74, 188   Stone, Dr. Abraham, 434   Stone, Dr. Hannah M., 360, 363, 374,   399, 403f-, 434  Stopes, Marie, 171, 186, 272  Strike, laundry workers, 78; Lawrence   textile workers, 80 ; Paterson silk   workers, 83  Stritt, Frau Maria, 1 12, 285  Strunsky, Anna, 74  Stuart, Amelia, 36, 54, 208  Sullivan, matron at penitentiary, 240,   244  Sullivan, Mrs. Mary, 403f., 406, 408  Sumners, Hatton W., 424  Sun, New York, no, 186  Sundaram, Dr. Manjeri, 485, 488  Swann, Judge Thomas, 427  Swazey, George, 258, 259  Switzerland, 299, 376-391, 4o8ff.
 Syndicalism, ioif.
 Syracuse, 411   Tagore, Rabindranath, 471!
 Taj Mahal, 479   Tarver, Representative Malcolm C, 424   Thomas, Albert, 379   Tiflis, 454ff-   Tilton, Dr. Benjamin, 396   Times, New York, 305f.
 Timme, Mrs. Walter, 395, 417   Todd, Helen, 232, 258, 259   Tokyo, 322ff.
 504 INDEX   Toss, Irish setter, isf.
 Town Hall episode, 301 ff., 306, 495   Trautman, William E., 80   Travancore, Maharani of, 481 ff.
 Tresca, Carlo, 80, 314   Trial, Ethel Byrne, 226ff.
 ; Fania Min-   dell, 230; Margaret Sanger, 23off.
 Tribune, New York, 191, 306  Trivandrum, 481 ff.
 Trudeau, Dr., tuberculosis specialist, s8f.
 Truro, Mass., 26ff.
 Tucson, 460, 491   Ullrich, Dr. Mabel, 198  Untermyer, Samuel, 1836:.
 Vanderlip, Frank, 295   Vandeveer, Mrs. J.
 B., 419   Vickery, Dr. Alice, 128, i6gi., 172, 178,   273   Volga trip, 45iff.
 Voluntary Parenthood League, 4i4f.
 Vorse, Mary Heaton, 96, 188, 264     Wald, Lillian, 225   Wales, 123   Walling, William English, 74   Walton, Sidney, 464   Walworth Center, 296   Webster Hall, 82   Welch, Dr. William, 385   Wells, Catherine (Jane), 27off.
 Wells, H. G., 186, 268ff., 299, 316, 370,   380, 440  Westminster School, 432     What Every Girl Should Know, 77, 216   219, 224, 230, 256  What Every Mother Should Know, 77  Whelan, Grover A., 405  Whitehurst, Margaret, 220, 310  White Plains Hospital, 45-57  White, Stanford, 56  Whitman, Governor Charles S., 232, 233,   255  Willet, Howard, 54  Williams, Dr. John Whitridge, 420  Williams, Dr. Linsley, 405  Williams, William E., 256  Willson, Dr. Prentiss, 425, 430  Wilson, Assistant District Attorney, 312  Wilson, Dr. C. I., 421  Wilson, President Woodrow, 186, 268  Winsor, Mary, 303f., 306, 313  Witcop, Rose, 136, 173, 280  Wobblies, see I.W.W.
 Woman and the New Race, 266, 299, 362  Woman Rebel, 106-120, 170, 173, 184, 252  Woman suffrage, 17, 38, 190  Women's Co-operative Guild, England,   Woo, Dr. Arthur, 490  Wood, C E. S., 204  Woodward, Dr. William G, 417  Workhouse, Blackwell's Island, 228, 240  World, New York, 227, 229, 299, 306, 384  World War, , i3if ., I43f ., 1486:., 253!
 Yalta, 456   Yarros, Dr. Rachelle, 361   Yoshiwara, Tokyo, 332, 333   Zurich Conference, 4o8ff.
 Books That J^rve   The Norton imprint on a  book means that in the  publisher's estimation it  is a book not for a single  season but for the years.
