You can sleep with your wife but can't play tennis with her.
 You can shoot ducks, but can't feed them.
 Boffins scare us with graphs, then change them...
 Call that a lockdown?
 Broadway Market in London is PACKED with little social distancing or a mask in sight as visitors help themselves to takeaway beer on first weekend of new restrictions      Hundreds of maskless anti-lockdown protestors defy ban on demonstrations to hold protests in Liverpool and Brighton on first weekend of new restrictions       Britons could be told to 'quarantine' for two weeks in January as the price of spending time with relatives at Christmas, SAGE papers suggest      A tale of two lockdowns: London and city centres are ghost towns on first weekend of new restrictions... but beauty spots are crammed with people in autumnal weather      Lockdown not lock in!
 Police raid pub at 11pm and find 50 people smoking, drinking and dancing to music as landlord is slapped with £10,000 fine      Light up lockdown!
 Pensioner, 73, puts up Christmas decorations on his house early to cheer up his neighbours on first weekend of new curbs      Independent shops call for a clampdown on chains selling 'non-essential' items during lockdown - despite civil liberties fury that was unleashed in Wales by 'trolley police' tactics      Teachers are NOT more likely to get coronavirus than other key workers, official study finds       Liverpool's mass-swabbing scheme carried out 12,000 tests on its first day as health boss claims pilot is 'very encouraging' despite hour-long queues being called a 'shambles'      The terrifying moment knifeman who slit a 10-year-old boy's throat, stabbed two adults and ran over girl, 5, in random attacks was caught on camera as he is jailed for life      France remembers the victims of Nice attack in which Islamist terrorist, 21, beheaded woman and killed two more as nation's prime minister vows to 'fight relentlessly' against radical Islam      Blood-soaked mother, 29, 'stumbled from her house carrying her baby and died hours later after being stabbed at house in Stoke'      How do YOU hold the steering wheel?
 Published: 19:56, 8 May 2015 | Updated: 08:04, 24 May 2015        e-mail  68 shares  48 View comments Mike Huckabee warned the first South Carolina audience of his newly minted presidential campaign on Friday that he didn't have time to answer an endless string of questions.
 'I'll take a few,' said the former Arkansas governor.
 'And when they get hard, we're done.
 Joe Barton, president of Barton Publishing – the company that paid him – told Daily Mail Online that his contract called for 'a five-figure monthly amount.'
 SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEOS   SECOND BITE AT THE APPLE: The former Arkansas governor finished second among Republicans in the 2008 presidential nomination delegate count, but then embraced a broadcasting and writing career  HUCKSTER?
 Huckabee appeared in infomercials in February for a 'Diabetes Solution Kit' that included herbal supplements, and he won't say if he still endorses the 'natural' productThe kit combines a diet and exercise program with cinnamon and chromium, which Barton said help drive down blood sugar levels and control hemoglobin A1C, a diabetes indicator in human blood.
 'I'm living proof that the remedies and lifestyle changes promoted in the Diabetes Solution Kit are spot-on for getting rid of this life­-threatening disease,' Huckabee said in a press release, issued not in his early days as a fresh-faced politician, but on Feb. 5 of this year.
 MEET MIKE HUCKABEE      Mike Huckabee  Former Arkansas governor Age: 59Religion:            Southern BaptistBase: EvangelicalsRésumé: Former governor and lieutenant governor of Arkansas, former Fox News Channel host, ordained minister, authorEducation: B.A.
 Ouachita Baptist University.
 Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary (did not finish).
 Family: Married to Janet Huckabee (1974), with three adult children.
 Mrs. Huckabee is a survivor of spinal cancer.Claim to fame: 'Huck' is a political veteran and has run for president before, winning the Iowa Caucuses in 2008 and finishing second for the GOP nomination behind John McCain.
 He's known as an affable Christian and built a huge following on his weekend television program.Achilles heel: Huckabee may have a problem with female voters.
 He complained in 2014 about Obamacare's contraception coverage, saying Democrats want women to 'believe that they are helpless without Uncle Sugar.'
 And in 2015 he earned scorn for hawking herbal supplements in infomercials as a diabetes cure.
 'He also said his contract with the former governor began February 1 and ended less than seven weeks later, on March 19, after Huckabee gave him 30 days notice just a few weeks into the ad campaign.
 The ads themselves were more combative, pitting the former governor – who famously lost 100 pounds by changing his diet – against the medical and pharmaceutical establishment.
 'Prescription drugs aren’t going to cure you,' Huckabee says on-screen.
 'They’re only going to keep you a loyal pill-popping, finger-pricking, insulin-shooting customer so Big Pharma and the mainstream medical community can rake in over $100 billion annually.
 'Less than three months later, he's the sixth Republican to enter the 2016 White House race.
 And he's in no mood to talk about it.
 'Are you still convinced that herbal supplements can cure diabetes?'
 Daily Mail Online asked the presidential hopeful before his audience of 75 people got seated.
 'You know,' Huckabee replied, 'that's not why I'm here today.
 'Told that Daily Mail readers are interested in health and wellness, Huckabee responded: 'Good!
 Tell 'em to do all they can.
 ''Including buying the products on your infomercial?'
 came the follow-up.
 'I'm not doing that right now,' he insisted.
 'I'm running for president.
 ''But you were,' Daily Mail Online reiterated.
 'You were.
 ''Right,' he said, looking over his shoulder.
 'And I'm running for president.'
 RELATED ARTICLES Previous 1 2 3 Next  Preacher Huckabee throws first punches of 2015, hitting Ted...
 Tired of election talk ALREADY?
 You can ignore 43 of the 50... 'I am the best person for the job,' says ex-HP boss Carly... 'Don't underestimate me': Liberal Vermont Senator Bernie...  Jeb Bush reigns triumphant in New Hampshire as Christie's... Hillary Clinton says Obama's immigration orders are 'just... Republicans taunt Hillary with her 2003 claim she was...
 Tea party favorite Ben Carson is running for president:...  Jeb Bush's super PAC on track to raise $100 million by the... Hillary Clinton cites ideas from five 'Iowans I met' in... Rubio surges to the front of the GOP pack in two new polls...   Share this article Share 68 shares        HUCKABEE, INC.: He's written a dozen books including the 2006 diet tome when he was slimmer, but this year it's his diabetes-solution marketing that has gotten him into troubleA staffer with the Upstate Chamber Coalition, the event's sponsor, rescued him – getting in between the governor-turned-TV-host-turned-pitchman-turned-candidate and his questioner.In seconds Huckabee was again smiling and shaking hands, looking like the manicured, made-up TV host.Later, Daily Mail Online asked him how much he was paid to make the ads.
 'Not nearly enough, I'll tell you that,' Huckabee said with his should-be-patented 'aw shucks' twang.His spokesman J. Hogan Gidley questioned whether the governor had ever claimed the Diabetes Solution Kit was a cure for the disease.
 'Asking "Does he still believe it?"
 implies that he ever believed it before,' the spokesman told Daily Mail Online.
 'Show me where he said it.'
 And after his speech, Huckabee refused to say whether or not he still endorses the product.His name and face, which used to appear at 'DiabetesReversed.com,' are gone now.
 And the microsite 'HuckabeeDiabetes.com,' at one time the online portal to buy what he endorsed, now brings Web surfers to the copmany's website.
 'We can't use his likeness on the page anymore,' Barton explained.
 'But he really believed in the program.
 I think it came down to his political advisors telling him – you know.
 ''It would have been nice to continue the relationship,' Barton added.
 'We had such a successful campaign.
 But we've moved on.'
 CAMPAIGN: THe Baptist minister-slash-politician is doing all the things a serious presidential candidate does, including touring companies in Iowa (shown), but his first South Carolina appearance included questions that he didn't want asked  He insisted, though that 'it's not the herbal supplements' that make the program work – referring back to his 2006 diet book 'Quit Digging Your Grave with a Knife and Fork.'
 'The basic premise of that book is the essence of that plan,' Huckabee said, referring to the infomercial product.
 'It's not about herbal supplements.
 ''It's really about controlling diet, exercise, maintaining a very low level of carbs so you're not eating a lot of starchy foods that become sugar.
 'Huckabee was defiant, to a point, defending his diet prescriptions while distancing himself from Barton, the company that sells the products in his ads.His only moment of reflection came in the face of a reminder that the ads could be political dynamite since they were just months – not decades – old.
 'Yeah,' he said, his voice trailing off in resignation.
 Asked three times if he still endorsed the Diabetes Solution Kit, he responded with a brisk walk out of the room and a well-worn dodge: 'You know, I'm running for president.'
 THE 2016 FIELD: WHO'S IN AND WHO'S THINKING IT OVER More than two dozen people from America's two major political parties are considered potential presidential candidates in the 2016 election.Eight – including two women, an African-American and two Latinos – have formally entered the race.
 A long list of others are biding their time and assessing their chances.REPUBLICANS IN THE RACE       Ben Carson       Retired PhysicianAge: 63Religion:              Seventh-day AdventistBase: Evangelicals            Résumé: Famous pediatric neurosurgeon, youngest person to head a major Johns Hopkins Hospital division.
 Created a charity that awards scholarships to children of good character.Education: B.A.
 Yale University.
 M.D.
 University of Michigan Medical School.Family: Married to Candy Carson (1975), with three adult sons.
 The Carsons live in Maryland with Ben's elderly mother Sonya, who was a seminal influence on his life and development.
 Claim to fame: Carson spoke at a National Prayer Breakfast in 2013, railing against political correctness and condemned Obamacare – with President Obama sitting just a few feet away.Achilles heel: Carson is inflexibly conservative, opposing gay marriage and once saying gay attachments formed in prison provided evidence that sexual orientation is a choice.
 Carly Fiorina         Former CEOAge: 60Religion:      Episcopalian Base: Conservatives                Résumé: Former CEO of Hewett-Packard, former group president of Lucent Technologies, onetime US Senate candidate in CaliforniaEducation: B.A.
 Stanford University.
 UCLA School of Law (did not finish).
 M.B.A. University of Maryland.
 M.Sci.
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Family: Married to Frank Fiorina (1985), with two adult step-daughters.
 Divorced from Todd Bartlem (1977-1984).Claim to fame: Fiorina was the first woman to lead a Fortune 20 company, something that could provide key ammunition against the Democratic Partys' drive to make Hillary Clinton the first female president.Achilles heel: Fiorina's unceremonious firing by HP's board has led to questions about her management and leadership styles.
 And her only political experience has been a failed Senate bid in 2010 against Barbara Boxer.
 Mike Huckabee     Former Arkansas governor Age: 59Religion:            Southern BaptistBase: EvangelicalsRésumé: Former governor and lieutenant governor of Arkansas, former Fox News Channel host, ordained minister, authorEducation: B.A.
 Ouachita Baptist University.
 Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary (did not finish).
 Family: Married to Janet Huckabee (1974), with three adult children.
 Mrs. Huckabee is a survivor of spinal cancer.Claim to fame: 'Huck' is a political veteran and has run for president before, winning the Iowa Caucuses in 2008 and finishing second for the GOP nomination behind John McCain.
 He's known as an affable Christian and built a huge following on his weekend television program.Achilles heel: Huckabee may have a problem with female voters.
 He complained in 2014 about Obamacare's contraception coverage, saying Democrats want women to 'believe that they are helpless without Uncle Sugar.'
 And in 2015 he earned scorn for hawking herbal supplements in infomercials as a diabetes cure.
 Ted Cruz            Texas senatorAge: 44Religion:         Southern BaptistBase: Tea partiers                    Résumé:US senator, Texas solicitor general, US Supreme Court clerk, associate deputy attorney general under President George W. BushEducation: B.A.
 Princeton University.
 J.D.
 His father is a preacher and he has two half-sisters.Claim to fame: Cruz spoke on the Senate floor for 21 hours in September 2013 to protest the inclusion of funding for Obamacare in a federal budget bill.Achilles heel: Cruz's father Rafael, a Texas preacher, is a tea party firebrand who has said gay marriage is a government conspiracy and called President Barack Obama a Marxist who should 'go back to Kenya.'
 Rand Paul      Kentucky senatorAge: 52Religion: Presbyterian Base: Libertarians                   Résumé: US senator, board-certified ophthalmologist, congressional campaign manager for his father Ron PaulEducation: Baylor University (did not finish).
 M.D.
 Duke University School of Medicine.Family: Married to Kelley Ashby (1990), with three sons.
 His father is a former Texas congressman who ran for president three times but never got close to grabbing the brass ring.Claim to fame: Paul embraces positions that are at odds with most in the GOP, including anti-interventionist foreign policy, criminal drug sentencing reform for African-Americans and limits on government electronic surveillance.Achilles heel: Paul's politics are aligned with those of his father, whom mainstream GOPers saw as kooky.
 Both Pauls have advocated for a brand of libertarianism that forces government to stop domestic surveillance programs and limits foreign interventions.
 Marco Rubio         Florida senatorAge: 43Religion:            Roman CatholicBase: Conservatives                  Résumé: US senator, speaker of the Florida House of Representatives, city commissioner of West MiamiEducation: B.A.
 University of Florida.
 J.D.
 University of Miami School of Law.Family: Married to Jeanette Dousdebes (1998), with two sons and two daughters.
 Jeanette is a former Miami Dolphins cheerleader who posed for the squad’s first swimsuit calendar.
 Claim to fame: Rubio's personal story as the son of Cuban emigres is a powerful narrative, and helped him win his Senate seat in 2010 against a well-funded governor whom he initially trailed by 20 points.Achilles heel: Rubio was part of a bipartisan 'gang of eight' senators who crafted an Obama-approved immigration reform bill in 2013 which never became law – a move that angered conservative Republicans.
 And he was criticized in 2011 for publicly telling a version of his parents' flight from Cuba that turned out to appear embellished.
 DEMOCRATS IN THE RACE      Hillary Clinton Former sec.
 of stateAge: 67Religion: United Methodist Base: Liberals                             Résumé: Secretary of state, US senator, US first lady, Arkansas first lady, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville law facultyEducation: B.A.
 Wellesley College.
 J.D.
 Yale Law School.Family: Clinton's husband Bill was the 42nd President of the United States.
 Their daughter Chelsea is marreid to investment banker Marc Mezvinsky, whose mother was a one-term Pennsylvania congresswoman in the 1990s.Claim to fame: Clinton was the first US first lady with a postgraduate degree and presaged Obamacare with a failed attempt at health care reform in the 1990s.Achilles heel: A long series of financial and ethical scandals has dogged Clinton, including recent allegations that her husband and their family foundation benefited financially from decisions she made as secretary of state.
 And her performance surrounding the 2012 terror attack on a State Department facility in Benghazi, Libya, has been catnip for conservative Republicans.
 Bernie Sanders*  Vermont senatorAge: 73Religion: JudaismBase: Far-left progressives                              Résumé: US senator, US congressman, mayor of Burlington, Vermont Education: B.A.
 University of Chicago.Family: Sanders is married to Jane O’Meara Sanders (1988), a former president of Burlington College.
 They have one child and three more from Mrs. Sanders' previous marriage.
 His brother Larry is a Green Party politician in the UK and formerly served on the Oxfordshire County Council.Claim to fame: Sanders is an unusually blunt, and unapologetic pol, happily promoting progressivism without hedging.
 He is also the longest-serving 'independent' member of Congress – neither Democrat nor Republican.Achilles heel: Sanders describes himself as a 'democratic socialist.'
 At a time of huge GOP electoral gains, his far-left ideas don't poll well.
 He favors open borders, single-payer universal health insurance, and greater government control over media ownership.
 * Sanders will run as a Democrat but has no party affiliation in the Senate.
 REPUBLICANS IN THE HUNT   Jeb Bush, former Florida governorBush has a father and a brother who occupied the Oval Office, and the capacity to raise massive amounts of campaign cash.
 He has alienated conservatives, though, by embracing immigration reform and 'Common Core' education standards.Chris Christie, New Jersey governorPugnacious and unapologetic, Christie would bring an ego-driven brashness to the race – although his abrasive style and echos of his 'Bridgegate' scandal might ultimately sink him.
 Lindsey Graham, South Carolina senatorGraham was a non-factor until a March summit in Iowa where he stole the show and put himself on the map.
 Arizona Sen. John McCain has praised him as the best person to help right America's foreign-relations ship Bobby Jindal, Louisiana governorJindal's main claim to fame is his strident opposition to federal-level 'Common Core' education standards, which included a federal lawsuit that a judge dismissed in late March.John Kasich, Ohio governorKasich is a popular governor in the battleground Buckeye State, but has little name-recognition elsewhere.
 He has accommodated liberals on some issues and could be seen as a more palatable version of Jeb Bush for Republicans who are anxious about electing a family dynasty.DEMOCRATS IN THE HUNTJoe Biden, U.S. vice presidentBiden would be a natural candidate as the White House's sitting second-banana, but his reputation as a one-man gaffe factory will keep Democrats from taking him seriously.
 Jerry Brown, California governor Brown has been a presidential candidate three times and earned the nickname 'Moonbeam' for his liberal policy ideas.
 Today he's seen as a centrist but is likely leaning against another run.Lincoln Chafee, former Rhode Island gov.Chafee is a Republican-turned-Democrat who has launched a presidential exploratory committee and has distinguished himself from most in his party by attacking Hillary Clinton.Martin O'Malley, former Maryland governorO'Malley is a guitar-playing everyman who had limited success as his state's chief executive, showing political weakness by failing to secure a victory for his hand-picked successor.
 George Pataki, former New York governorPataki is a long shot with almost zero name-recognition outside his home state, but he pared down the size of the state government and cut taxes during 12 years in office.
 He toyed with a run in 2012 but ultimately decided against it.Rick Perry, former Texas governorPerry was a top-tier candidate in 2012 until his 'Oops!'
 moment in a debate, when he couldn't remember one of his own policy positions.
 He now also faces a criminal indictment in Texas over tenuous claims that he abused his power.Rick Santorum, former Pennsylvania sen.Santorum is a perennial White House hopeful who won the GOP Iowa Caucuses in 2012 on the strength of ceaseless retail campaigning.
 He's best known as a religious-right crusader.Scott Walker, Wisconsin governorWalker built his national fame on the twin planks of turning his state's budget shortfalls into surpluses and beating back a labor union-led drive to force him out of office.
 Both results have broad appeal in the GOP.Donald Trump, real estate tycoon Trump, the host of 'Celebrity Apprentice,' could self-fund an entire campaign without spending a life-changing portion of his net worth.
 He has loudly criticized President Obama and claims he can negotiate with foreign governments better than anyone else.
 Mark Warner, Virginia senator Warner is a former Virginia governor who won a tough Senate race in a battleground state.
 He's also known as a tough budget negotiator.
 Elizabeth Warren, Massachusetts senatorWarren is a populist liberal who could give Hillary Clinton headaches by challenging her from the left, but she has said she has no plans to run and is happy in the U.S. Senate.Jim Webb, former Virginia senatorWebb is a centrist Democrat and a Reagan-appointed former Navy Secretary who's hawkish on defense policy.
 He has launched a presidential exploratory committee.
 View all      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
 We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
 Katie Price gives fans a glimpse into her new Surrey home with peeling paintwork and lots of clutter on date night with Carl Woods                               'You complete us': Tamara Ecclestone dotes on newborn Serena in family snap as she admits she was 'worried' about having another child                               DWTS's Gleb Savchenko is accused of 'multiple affairs' and 'a recent inappropriate relationship' by estranged wife Elena Samodanova                                Bianca Gascoigne showcases her eye-popping cleavage in a plunging PVC swimsuit in sizzling shoot for her 2021 calendar            Sizzling                    Strictly star Nicola Adams' girlfriend Ella Baig reveals how 'proud' she is of boxer on the first anniversary of her retirement                               Trying for a baby?
 Queen's family Christmas at Sandringham is set to be axed for the first time in 33 years as monarch self-isolates with Prince Philip at Windsor                                Coronation Street: Fans fear Sally Metcalfe is LEAVING the soap after 34 years as she puts her house up for sale to escape abusive Geoff                               Fortune Feimster shares hilarious story of how she passed a shirtless Jason Momoa as he was broken down on the side of the road in the desert                               Georgia Fowler shows off her incredible figure in a TINY bikini at the beach - after revealing her top tips and tricks for staying in shape and being body confident                               Where's St James's Park?
 ': Ryan Giggs's brother Rhodri, 43, lays into ex-Manchester United star as police investigate him on suspicion of assaulting a SECOND woman                                Garrett Hedlund gets gussied up to film scenes with actress Anna Paquin on set of the Amazon Prime anthology series Modern Love                               Jack Fincham's ex accuses star of taking financial advantage of their daughter, claims he doesn't know her and says his name isn't on the birth certificate                               Bella Hadid rocks a red leather jacket as she and her siblings Anwar, Alana and Marielle join their dad Mohamed for lunch on his 72nd birthday                               Tom Cruise cuts a laid-back figure as he joins Hayley Atwell to shoot Mission Impossible 7 in Venice... after filming was suspended 'over 12 positive tests for COVID-19'                               'It's not unusual for me to be in and out of his life': Liam Payne says he and Cheryl agreed he should take some 'time away' from son Bear during first lockdown                               'I'll break your f***ing arm!'
 Love Island's Kaz Crossley showcases her washboard abs and enviable curves in a TINY metallic bikini for new sizzling snap from Dubai getaway                               Vanessa Hudgens sizzles on the beach in a white bikini as she wishes her followers 'serenity' while awaiting election results                               Una Healy shows off her gym-honed physique in a black crop top as she shares the home workout routine that got her through lockdown                               'Who wouldn't if they could?'
 David Bowie, Bob Dylan, Mick Jagger and Michael Caine!
 Singer DANA GILLESPIE reveals all in her scandalous memoir                                Khloe Kardashian jokes about Tristan Thompson's past infidelities on KUWTK... as he makes a comment about CHEATING in new episode                               'I'm not pregnant': Hailey Bieber speaks out to deny report that she's expecting her first child with husband Justin Bieber                               Revealed: Artist paid by BBC to fake documents that secured Princess Diana interview gives devastating testimony of Martin Bashir's demands                               Who's top Hugh?
 They're both starring as TV rogues... but from the Oxbridge days to their troubled love lives, Laurie and Grant have been posh peas in a pod                                Dr. Dre's estranged wife Nicole Young demands to know if the music mogul had any children out of wedlock during their 24-year marriage in bitter $1billion divorce                               Ethan Hawke is 50!
 Love Island's Arabella Chi shows off her bronzed physique in a microscopic bikini as she bemoans Britain's freezing temperatures                               Fans have VERY mixed reactions to Mom's first episode without Anna Faris as Allison Janney leads the sitcom                               Black Panther star Michael B Jordan keeps it very casual in a sheer T-shirt and jeans as he enjoys a fancy Beverly Hills dinner with friends                               Olivia Attwood cuts a casual figure in a black tracksuit as she struggles to get into her building in Manchester                               Pregnant Dani Dyer gushes about her 'stubborn bubs' while sharing a baby scan as she prepares to enter her third trimester                               'I found the love of my life': Andrea Riseborough reveals she fell for her co-star Karim Saleh while filming Luxor                               Saira Khan hits back at Ofcom complaints over her furious Loose Women rant as she insists lockdown will be a 'human disaster for future generations'                               Check her out!
 Cheeky Lady Amelia Windsor sports her favourite gingham raincoat as she sticks out her tongue en route to meet a pal for a takeaway coffee during lockdown                               'What would Anne Lister do?
 ': Suranne Jones rocks a top hat and face mask inspired by her character as she films the second series of Gentleman Jack                                Davina McCall breathes a sigh of relief as her dog Bo is found thanks to social media plea after being taken by two women                               Ashley Benson flashes her taut midriff in a white crop top and ripped jeans as she stocks up on food with a male pal                               Phil Collins' ex-wife Orianne Cevey poses in couture gown as she shows off new $250k Bentley... amid battle over singer's $40M Miami mansion                               Love Island winners Paige Turley and Finley Tapp can't hide their happiness as they hold hands after picking up coffees in Manchester                               Chrissy Teigen shares clip of John Legend singing Georgia On My Mind as Biden pulls ahead in the state: 'He has been waiting to post this'                                Suranne Jones and her co-star Sophie Rundle don period dress as they film scenes for Gentleman Jack series two in Yorkshire                               Kylie Minogue reveals her favourite song she's ever recorded - and says she knew it was 'incredible' the moment she heard the demo                               Charles Saatchi's daughter Phoebe and her husband open their first gallery a year after their VERY glamorous high society Lake Como wedding                                'Keeping it real': Malin Andersson displays her sizzling curves in navy blue lingerie as she poses for 'raw' selfie with a 'massive spot' on her face                               EOTB's Kayleigh Morris flaunts her curves in a plunging orange thong bikini as strolls along the beach in Cyprus                               Love Island's Amy Hart turns heads in leather trousers while toting a £2,450 Dior bag after revealing she will freeze her eggs 'in the next few months'                               'I only ever sleep nude' Christine McGuinness shares naked bedroom picture as she details insomnia battle and reveals she only sleeps 2-5 hours per night                                'Topping up on Vitamin D': Holly Willoughby enjoys her day off from This Morning duties as she soaks up the winter sun in fun selfie                               'I'm in the best shape I've been in for a long time': Tommy Fury shows off his incredible body transformation as Molly-Mae Hague says she's 'proud of him'                               Coronation Street's Tina O'Brien looks casually chic in a black jacket and polka-dot trousers as she heads to set with co-star Jack P Shepherd                               'Tonight's a slightly different firework night': David Beckham brings the Guy Fawkes celebration to his back garden as the family tuck into toasted marshmallows                               'I'm devastated': Jack Fincham reveals he has broken his nose and has to undergo emergency surgery after £35K Mercedes car crash                               Cate Blanchett, Olivia Colman and Sheridan Smith prepare backstage in never before seen candid portraits as photographer unveils new book                               Little Mix look sensational in semi-sheer glittering bodysuits as they unveil new photo to celebrate the release of their sixth album Confetti                               'I was walking around with skin cancer on my leg': Molly-Mae Hague breaks down as doctors reveal the mole she had removed was cancerous            Devastating                   Love Island's Montana Brown puts on a sizzling display as she showcases her incredible physique in lacy teal lingerie                               EastEnders star Adam Woodyatt, 52, continues to maintain his incredible weight loss as he cycles (10 miles each way!)
 Kim Kardashian's son Saint fears she is going to DIE and North claims her mother 'HATES' her as tensions reach fever pitch during lockdown                               Emmerdale's Michelle Hardwick and wife Kate Brooks are seen with baby son Edward for the first time as they head out on a park stroll                                The Bachelorette bling!
 Clare Crawley, 39, shows off her 4.5 carat Neil Lane diamond engagement ring from Dale Moss, 32, valued at $100K                               Hugh Jackman wears a stylish black mask while on a solo stroll in New York - after the actor urged fans to 'cover their face' or risk a visit from Wolverine                               Katie Price gets a helping hand from boyfriend Carl Woods as they return home from the Maldives while her two broken feet continue to heal                                 Rochelle Humes celebrates her baby son Blake turning a month old with a slew of adorable snaps                               Rose McGowan is hailed a 'trouper' by Question Time viewers as she appears on the panel the day after breaking her wrist while reading US election results on the stairs                               Dancing On Ice pro Vanessa Bauer shows off her lithe physique in a leopard print co-ord during outdoor training session with Joe-Warren Plant                               Rocco Ritchie cuts a dapper figure as he enjoys a pre-lockdown night out in Mayfair with a female friend and other pals                               Natalya Wright showcases her slender curves in a brown polo shirt bodysuit following her relaxing Dubai break                               'We've known each other since our early 20s': Nicole Kidman says she and Hugh Grant had a 'husband and wife' demeanour before The Undoing                               'It's a masterpiece!'
 Little Mix's thrilled fans go wild for the group's new album Confetti... as they declare it's 'SAVED 2020' within hours of being released                               Rosie Huntington-Whiteley looks effortlessly chic in a polo neck and shades as she enjoys a 'pre lockdown 2.0' coffee in Covent Garden                               Lewis Hamilton shows off his ripped physique while posing in a pair of fluorescent pink trousers as he enjoys some downtime with his dog Roscoe                               Louise Redknapp is given a vibrator, tequila and a cannabis candle for her 46th birthday and says she's 'slightly worried' as she shows off her gifts                               'My daughter's in A&amp;E miles awayr': Ulrika Jonsson reveals heartache over Bo, 20, becoming unwell amid lockdown after she said she was 'taking risks going to uni'                                Rebel Wilson shows off her 40Ib weight loss as she flexes her muscles with Ant Middleton while filming new show on location in Mexico                               Cara Santana keeps it casual in a black coat and workout leggings as she runs errands                               'It's just two girls dancing, the world didn't end': Nicola Adams praises Strictly for 'pushing boundaries' and promoting 'diversity' with first same-sex pairing                               Holly Willoughby looks sensational as she rocks stylish Christmas jumpers and embraces festive spirit in sequins for new M&S; campaign                               Jenna Dewan is every inch the doting mother as she kisses her baby son Callum while taking their dog out                                'They felt big and awkward': Ulrika Jonsson, 53, admits she grew to HATE her large breasts despite 'praying' for them as a teen            .
 Dua Lipa wears fierce bra top and corset for Attitude shoot as she addresses challenges in the LGBTQ community and misogyny in the music industry                               Rebecca Romijn and husband Jerry O'Connell hold hands while out on a lunch date in LA                               Strictly's Jamie Laing jokes Karen Hauer sneaks into his room every night to 'whisper the steps in my ear' after finding himself in last week's dance off                               Crazy Rich Asians' Henry Golding and wife Liv Lo expecting their first child: '2021 is already looking brighter!'
 The Crown's Emma Corrin admits there is 'immense pressure' playing Princess Diana as she joins on-screen husband Josh O'Connor on Graham Norton                               Kylie Jenner is first Kardashian family member to surpass 200 million follower milestone on Instagram                               This isn't just any Christmas ad!
 Made In Chelsea's Ollie Locke appears to CONFIRM secret marriage to partner Gareth as he shares romantic throwback snap                               Rapper and social media influencer Braxton 'Brax' Baker dies aged 21 as mother confirms 'angel has ascended'                               Even the Queen can't escape 'Covid gridlock'!
 Eye-witnesses spotted the monarch stuck in traffic as she returned to Windsor                               Amanda Holden flaunts her endless pins in a glittering sequinned skirt and sheer corset as she gets back to work filming a new TV project                               Olivia Culpo is every bit the fashionista in a tan short suit as she has her hands full on coffee run in LA                               BAZ BAMIGBOYE: Following in Diana's dainty dance steps             Emma Corrin, who captures the essence of Princess Diana                  Famke Janssen looks stunning in a dark green dress as she takes care of errands in New York City on her 56th birthday                               Made In Chelsea star Tiffany Watson looks sensational as she shows off her slender figure in a sizzling lingerie snap                               CHRISTOPHER STEVENS: The rowing was gruelling work... and that was just watching it                                Kylie Minogue, 52, dazzles in a semi-sheer sequin dress with a daring thigh-thigh split during sultry performance                               'I don't want to send anyone home!'
 Strictly's Shirley Ballas admits ANY star could win this series as they're 'all good at something'                               That's Strictly close enough!
 Home alone Maisie Smith takes steps to keep her parents at a distance as they visit her in north London                               The Beatles 'raked in a eye-watering £50 MILLION in 2019' in a bumper year for the band and their heirs... 50 years after Fab Four's last album                               Kate Hudson pushes adorable toddler Rani Rose in stroller on walk with Danny Fujikawa in sunny LA                               The Voice UK: Olly Murs admits it was 'very odd' returning to filming during lockdown... as Tom Jones explains Meghan Trainor's absence was 'workable' despite her pregnancy                               Strictly's Craig Revel Horwood believes curse will be impossible this year as he and Motsi Mabuse discuss the show's first same-sex pairing                               Poldark star Gabriella Wilde reveals she adapted her 18th century costumes to breastfeed her son on the set of the drama                               Who stole BBC's forgeries?
 Fake bank statements that convinced Diana's brother his own aide was betraying him to the press                               Olivia Wilde says shutdown on Don't Worry Darling is due to an 'abundance of caution'... as Harry Styles and other stars quarantine after COVID-19 scare                               BAZ BAMIGBOYE: Stellar cast set to revisit Brideshead             Ralph Fiennes has been chosen to play the Flyte siblings' patriarch                  Channel 4's Changing Rooms reboot filming 'is postponed due to lockdown' and could 'possibly be pushed back until next year'                               Little Mix 'sing about their sex lives in VERY raunchy lyrics from their new album Confetti '... as they prepare to do chart battle with Kylie Minogue                                'I had a poster of him on my bedroom wall': Kym Marsh reveals her former Corrie love interest Simon Gregson was her teenage crush                               Made In Chelsea's Ollie Locke 'marries his boyfriend Gareth in a secret ceremony with co-star best pal Binky Felstead serving as bridesmaid'                               JAN MOIR: Patch-Up Prince isn't a paragon of thrift             Perhaps for this first time in his life, Prince Charles is both in Vogue and in vogue.
 ADRIAN THRILLS: Return of Kylie the disco diva... And she's competing for the glitterball spotlight with Ariana and Dame Shirley                               Justin Bieber will join Dan + Shay to perform at 2020 CMA Awards as Jason Aldean, Dierks Bentley and Keith Urban added to line up                               SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: Laid to rest: film slur on Bridge Too Far general                               Kendall Jenner and BFF Hailey Bieber put their model physiques on display in midriff baring tops during West Hollywood cafe outing                               Don't Rock The Boat: Victoria Pendleton FUMES as she and Jodie Kidd are beaten by the blue team... after her tense row with Craig Charles                               PATRICK MARMION: Matt adds a gloss to this magical Mis            Matt Lucas knows exactly where the crowd is                  Amanda Holden, 49, marks pal Tamzin Outhwaite's 50th birthday with a stunning bikini throwback snap... and likens friendship group to Golden Girls                                Andy Cohen promises 'real drama' in season nine of Vanderpump Rules after Stassi Schroeder and Kristen Doute were fired over racist incident                               Kerry Katona leaves little to the imagination as she strikes a provocative pose in sheer lace lingerie for her OnlyFans account            Saucy                   The View's Sunny Hostin and Sara Haines argue over whether Trump voters are 'selfish'                               Josh Hartnett, 42, explains decision for turning down Superman and Batman roles: 'I didn't want to be boxed into that superhero type'                               Felicity Jones teases potential comeback for her Jyn Erso character in the Star Wars universe: 'Reincarnation is totally possible'                               Hilaria Baldwin, 36, shows off her postpartum body in a sexy denim jumpsuit as husband Alec, 62, visits for a midday break in NYC                               Zara McDermott puts on a busty display in tiny crop-top in sizzling snaps... amid claims she has reunited with ex Sam Thompson                               Family Ties cast such as Michael J.
 Fox, Meredith Baxter and Michael Gross, will reunite on the Stars In the House series to benefit The Actors Fund                               Love Island's Laura Anderson showcases her toned physique in an orange thong bikini during Dubai getaway            The Scottish beauty, 31, looked incredible                   Keeping Up With The Kardashians teaser: Kim takes care of the kids as Kanye fights COVID-19, Khloe flirts with Tristan and Kylie makes up with Kendall                               Love Island's Megan Barton Hanson gets pre-lockdown Botox to help 'even out her eyebrows and prevent deep wrinkles'            Squeezing it in                    Rose McGowan poses in hospital with her arm in a cast and says she broke it 'reading US election results while on the stairs'                               Jimmy Fallon's head writer Rebecca Drysdale parts with position on The Tonight Show ... and says show's stream of material about Donald Trump 'only adds to his' power'                               Andy Cohen reveals he is trying to bring back Real Housewives Of Miami for season 4 on Peacock                               Tom Cruise looks in good spirits as he is joined by Rebecca Ferguson in Venice to film Mission Impossible 7                    EastEnders SPOILER: Mick Carter is shocked as he comes face-to-face with his abuser Katy Lewis after she suddenly arrives in Albert Square                               Ferne McCann tells daughter Sunday, 3, she must sleep in her own bedroom after sneaking in to be with her mum                               Anne Hathaway says she's sorry for the 'pain caused' by her insensitive depiction of someone with limb differences... after The Witches                               Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos cashes in $3billion of his shares which have risen more than 75% this year as pandemic drives more shoppers online                               Loose Women's Saira Khan 'sparks Ofcom complaints' after claiming UK isn't a 'totalitarian state' as the government announced a second lockdown                               Billy Joel, 71, leaves his daughters Della, five, and Remy, three, at home to enjoy some alone time on his Harley-Davidson motorcycle                               Diane Kruger is a blonde bombshell in skintight black leather trousers and sleek boots while out in NYC                    Ewan McGregor looks dapper in a black overcoat and shades as he joins a glamorous Kelly Bishop to film new Netflix series Simply Halston in NYC                               Offset slated to make his acting debut in the new drama American Sole with Pete Davidson, O'Shea Jackson Jr. and Camila Mendes                               Heavily pregnant Jessica Hart is ready to pop as the model shows off her 40-week baby bump in a sheer mini dress while out in LA                               Nicky Hilton is sophisticated in a turtleneck and plaid blazer as she goes for a matcha run in NYC... after spending time with sister Paris                               Walkers releases its star-studded festive advert featuring Christmas No.
 1 winner and Youtuber LadBaby alongside Walking In The Air singer Aled Jones and Gary Lineker                               Danielle Lloyd admits one-night stand website has 'spiced up' marriage to Michael O'Neill.. as she reveals he 'fully supports' her X-rated snaps                               Amy Childs reveals she is 'desperate to lose her baby weight' as she vows to train every day, cut out alcohol and eat 1,200 calories each day during lockdown                               Did Lily James bend Tier Two rules?
 Actress and Dominic Cooper have boozy business dinner inside restaurant in first outing since Dominic West scandal                               Nigella Lawson, 60, looks radiant as she dons chic fuchsia sweater dress for The One Show appearance                               Jack Fincham dotes on his daughter Blossom in sweet snap as he urges fans to 'stay strong' in lockdown... after ex Casey Ranger branded him an absent father                               Rhian Sugden showcases her eye-popping cleavage and curves in nude lingerie set for sizzling social media snap                               Karren Brady's daughter Sophia Peschisolido flaunts her sizzling curves in plum lingerie and suspenders during photoshoot             Stunning                    Flip Or Flop stars Christina Anstead and Tarek El Moussa announce hit HGTV series will be returning for season 10                               Chris Martin, 43, reveals how he stays in such great shape as he does a double workout in Malibu with first a bicycle ride then a run                               Zac Efron signs on to star in 'survival thriller' Gold... with filming to begin in Australia this month                                DailyMailTV : Vanderpump Rules star Tom Sandoval shows off his incredible quarantine fitness transformation                               Love Island's Shaughna Phillips reveals she's had so many footballers slide into her DMs she could 'make a five-a-side team'                               Cara De La Hoyde reveals she has been for an 'uncomfortable' biopsy after doctors found abnormal cells in her cervix following a smear test                                Brian Austin Green thanks fans for being 'supportive'... after Megan Fox slams ex for trying to make her look like 'an absent mother'                               Harry Potter star Jessie Cave coos over newborn son Abraham as she shares cute images following her 'terrifying and humbling' pregnancy                               AJ Pritchard celebrates his 26th birthday in lockdown with girlfriend Abbie Quinnen as she shares a sweet tribute to the dancer                               Dancing With The Stars host Tyra Banks shares she already had a serious wardrobe malfunction on the live show: 'My dress was not zipped up!'
 Khloe Kardashian claps back at troll who accuses her family of not urging followers to vote: 'We have been posting for weeks!'
 Fuming                    Pregnant Kara Tointon shows off her baby bump in bright red swimsuit as she enjoys 'a little dip and sink before brunch' at plush London hotel                               Kourtney Kardashian floods her Poosh site with stories on how to de-stress at home as the US frets over the election: 'Anxiety loves the unknown'                              Today's headlines       Most Read          TV networks call election for Joe Biden as votes in Pennsylvania put him over the top - while Donald Trump...      Trump says he won the election 'by a lot' as he breaks cover to play golf after launching new barrage of...      'Nice to have a human again': Celebrities take to social media to praise Joe Biden's speech to the nation...      Joe's secret weapon!
 Troubled son Hunter Biden's daughter Finnegan, 20, was a fixture on the campaign trail...      Joe Scarborough calls the election result an 'absolute repudiation of the Democratic party as a brand' and...      Coronavirus is found in minks in America, Spain and Italy: SIX countries report outbreaks linked to fur...      'It's a very contentious statement, but they're much better': Sir Michael Parkinson says that he believes...      Britain records 24,957 new coronavirus cases - just 14% up on last week - and 413 new deaths bringing total...
 Experts say peak of second wave 'has already PASSED': Scientists further undermine need for national...      Mark Mardell warns BBC's diversity drive will 'annoy and dismay' its audience in parting shot as he leaves...      RICHARD LITTLEJOHN: We're not going to take it any more.
 You can sleep with your wife but can't play tennis...
 Welcome to lockdown 2.0: London is a ghost town and city centres are deserted across England on first...
 Hundreds of maskless anti-lockdown protestors defy ban on demonstrations to hold protests in Liverpool and...      Britons could be told to 'self-quarantine' for two weeks in January as the price of spending time with...
 Independent shops call for a clampdown on chains selling 'non-essential' items during lockdown - despite...      Teachers are NOT more likely to get coronavirus than other key workers, official study finds       Liverpool's mass-swabbing scheme carried out 12,000 tests on its first day as health boss claims pilot is...
 The terrifying moment knifeman who slit a 10-year-old boy's throat, stabbed two adults and ran over girl, 5,...      France remembers the victims of Nice attack in which Islamist terrorist, 21, beheaded woman and killed two...      Blood-soaked mother, 29, 'stumbled from her house carrying her baby and died hours later after being stabbed...      How do YOU hold the steering wheel?
 Expert reveals the nine most common hand positions and what they say...      Boris Johnson and EU commission chief Ursula von der Leyen agree to 'redouble efforts' to reach a trade deal...      What on earth brought down the £8.5m Chelsea mansion?
 ANTONIA HOYLE speaks to a furious neighbour (who's dug...      More migrants risk their lives to cross the Channel just over a week after tragic family were killed when...      Scotland outlaws smacking children from today in UK first - despite concern over the state's growing...      WW1 grave of one of Britain's first black officers is found after  102 years: Walter Tull was buried in...      Last journey of an unknown hero: JONATHAN MAYO outlines how the Unknown Warrior's body was chosen and...      Boris Johnson lays a wreath in deserted London ahead of Remembrance Sunday - as Laurence Fox joins backlash...      Government tells councils to 'discourage' the public from paying their respects at Remembrance Sunday events...      PLATELL'S PEOPLE: We will all remember how Boris Johnson poisoned Poppy Day       Earl Spencer's damning dossier on Martin Bashir's lies: Crisis for BBC as Diana's brother reveals...
 The Spencer files: In Earl's own notes, Martin Bashir's lies included Prince Edward had AIDS, Queen was ill...
 Revealed: Artist paid by BBC to fake documents that secured Princess Diana interview gives devastating...      BEL MOONEY: Do I have to put up with my husband's porn habit?
 'He's a sex addict, I feel sorry for him': Ryan Giggs's brother Rhodri, 43, lays into ex-Manchester United...      75 days of chaos and denial: How Donald Trump can keep fighting his defeat until Joe Biden is sworn in - and...      Joe Biden says he's on his way to a 'clear win' in US presidential election while defiant Trump tweets from...
 The End Game!
 Social media users continue to get VERY creative as they mock slow count for election result...
 The social worker poised to step into Ivanka's shoes: Jill and Joe's daughter Ashley Biden, 39, has gone...      Key Trump ally Matt Gaetz reveals he tested positive for coronavirus antibodies but has 'no clue' when he...      Trumpocalypse now: A President refusing to walk and smearing the election as a fraud, gun sales soaring, a...      Trump's staff start to quit: President's highest-ranking black official Ja'Ron Smithwalks out of...      Mystery death of the Briton who revealed Covid cover-up: Student, 26, whose video dispatches from Wuhan...      Light up lockdown!
 Pensioner, 73, puts up Christmas decorations on his house early to cheer up his...      ALL Greater Manchester hospitals suspend non-urgent surgery and appointments due to surge in number of Covid...      Lockdown not lock in!
 Police raid pub at 11pm and find 50 people smoking, drinking and dancing to music as...
 It's orf!
 Queen's family Christmas at Sandringham is set to be axed for the first time in 33 years as...      DR MICHAEL MOSLEY: Help!
 I'm trying to stay sane trapped in tiny quarantine room for 14 days after arriving...      Britain CLOSES its borders to Denmark over mutant mink coronavirus outbreak: Fears grow that...
 Scientist warns 'lockdown will be a let down' unless there is 'radical reform' of Test and Trace with...      MORE HEADLINES             Mystery death of the Briton who revealed Covid cover-up: Student, 26, whose video dispatches from Wuhan exposed pandemic to the world is found dead in his university dorm in Wales... so when will his family learn the truth?
 Trump's staff start to quit: President's highest-ranking black official Ja'Ron Smithwalks out of administration despite Donald's claims of victory             What on earth brought down the £8.5m Chelsea mansion?
 ANTONIA HOYLE speaks to a furious neighbour (who's dug a huge basement) and the family whose roof's fallen in on their dream home             Joe Biden says he's on his way to a 'clear win' in US presidential election while defiant Trump tweets from the barricaded White House about 'voting fraud' and his 'miraculously disappearing' lead             Picture of Joe Biden with Gerry Adams and IRA chief who tried to kill an Army officer emerges - as former Sinn Fein president says they discussed 'a united Ireland'              Coronavirus is found in minks in America, Spain and Italy: SIX countries report outbreaks linked to fur farms amid fears mutant strain could hamper vaccine - as Britain bans visitors from Denmark and cull of 17m animals continues              Britons could be told to 'self-quarantine' for two weeks in January as the price of spending time with relatives at Christmas, SAGE papers suggest             Trump says he won the election 'by a lot' as he breaks cover to play golf after launching new barrage of unfounded claims that 'tens of thousands' of votes were 'illegal'             Yorkshire Ripper Peter Sutcliffe, 74, tests positive for Covid in prison after returning from hospital where he spent five nights with 'heart issues'              75 days of chaos and denial: How Donald Trump can keep fighting his defeat until Joe Biden is sworn in - and even then how does he get removed from the White House?
 Will mystery of missing 'milk carton kids' finally be solved?
 Police find 'human bones' three miles from spot where two boys, 11 and 13, vanished in Birmingham 24 years ago             It's orf!
 Queen's family Christmas at Sandringham is set to be axed for the first time in 33 years as monarch self-isolates with Prince Philip at Windsor              'He's a sex addict, I feel sorry for him': Ryan Giggs's brother Rhodri, 43, lays into ex-Manchester United star as police investigate him on suspicion of assaulting a SECOND woman              Trumpocalypse now: A President refusing to walk and smearing the election as a fraud, gun sales soaring, a nation at boiling point... JUSTIN WEBB on why America faces its greatest peril since the Civil War              Earl Spencer's damning dossier on Martin Bashir's lies: Crisis for BBC as Diana's brother reveals transcripts of journalist's 32 smears including Prince Edward had AIDS, The Queen's 'heart problems' and claim Prince Charles was in love with             Experts say peak of second wave 'has already PASSED': Scientists further undermine need for national lockdown as study finds R rate is 1 and cases are falling in the North and Scotland             Coroner says 'neglect' contributed to death of anorexic university student, 19, as he slams failure to feed her properly despite arriving at hospital malnourished             Newlywed couple left with horrific injuries by gang are blamed by a judge for provoking the attack by confronting them with a hammer              Welcome to lockdown 2.0: London is a ghost town and city centres are deserted across England on first weekend of restrictions... but beauty spots are crammed in autumnal weather             TV networks call election for Joe Biden as votes in Pennsylvania put him over the top - while Donald Trump plays golf and his campaign issues statement saying he does NOT accept the outcome              Trump claims his lead over Biden 'miraculously' disappeared as he retweets attacks on Fox News, mail-in ballots, and late votes being 'counted' during the VP's speech             Mark Mardell warns BBC's diversity drive will 'annoy and dismay' its audience in parting shot as he leaves broadcaster after 30-year career             A perfect pub pint at home?
 Pull the other one... but that's what new high tech beer gizmos promise while your local's shut, writes TOM RAWSTORNE              Open wide!
 Boris Johnson takes 'revolutionary' Covid test at Leicester lab as experts hope swabs that deliver results in under an hour could allow students to return home for Christmas             The terrifying moment knifeman who slit a 10-year-old boy's throat, stabbed two adults and ran over girl, 5, in random attacks was caught on camera as he is jailed for life             The Spencer files: In Earl's own notes, Martin Bashir's lies included Prince Edward had AIDS, Queen was ill with heart problems and Prince Charles and his sons' nanny were in love and on a secret holiday, writes RICHARD KAY              Airport beers are STILL on!
 Calculate now &gt;               International Money Transfer        Compare the best exchange rates in three easy steps &gt;               The eVeryday Edit        From the hottest trends to how to wear them, THIS is your new destination for all things fashion.
 '+ 					'MailOnline on Kindle is here!
 '+ 					'We think our Kindle app is a much better way of viewing MailOnline.
 '+ 					'Available FREE in the Amazon AppStore.
 '+ 					'Download it now!
 It\'s FREE in the Google Play store and has over 2 million downloads.
 Get it now!
 Available for FREE on Google Play.
 Download it now!
