Skip to main content            COVID-19 is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation.
 Get the latest information from CDC (coronavirus.gov) | NIH Resources | NIDA Resources    National Institutes of Health   Order Publications En español                        Search Component              Home     Drug Topics    Drug Topics    Alcohol     Club Drugs     Cocaine     Fentanyl     Hallucinogens     Heroin     Inhalants     Kratom     Marijuana     MDMA (Ecstasy/Molly)     Methamphetamine     Opioids     Over-the-Counter Medicines     Prescription Medicines     Steroids (Anabolic)     Synthetic Cannabinoids (K2/Spice)     Synthetic Cathinones (Bath Salts)     Tobacco/Nicotine and Vaping      More Drug Topics      Quick Links COVID-19 Opioid Crisis Commonly Used Drugs Chart Emerging Trends Fentanyl NIDA Publications        Research &amp; Training    Research &amp; Training    NIDA Research Programs &amp; Activities     Clinical Research     NIH Policies &amp; Guidance     Research Data, Measures, &amp; Resources     Research Training &amp; Career Development     Resources for Grants &amp; Contracts         Quick Links HEAL Initiative NIDA Drug Supply Program Clinical Trials Stewardship Fellowships &amp; Grants NIDA Notice of Special Interest (NOSI)        Clinical Resources    NIDAMED: Clinical Resources    For Your Discipline     Health Professions Education     Marijuana and Other Drugs     Opioid Crisis and Pain Management     Screening Tools &amp; Prevention     Treatment         Quick Links COVID-19 Resources        Grants &amp; Funding    Grants &amp; Funding    Contracts and Small Businesses     NIDA Funding Opportunities     Trans-NIH Funding Opportunities         Quick Links Grants Address OUD in Criminal Justice Settings Peer Review Grant Application Forms Grants &amp; Contract Application Process NIDA Notice of Special Interest (NOSI)        News &amp; Events    News    News Releases     Nora's Blog     NIDA Notes     Research Highlights     Public Education Projects     NIDA in the News     Subject Area Experts         Quick Links NIDA TV NIDA Media Guide Contact the Press Office Meetings &amp; Events        About NIDA    About NIDA    Advisory Boards and Review Groups     Director's Page     Legislative Activities     Organization     Working at NIDA         Quick Links NIDA Strategic Plan FY 2021 Budget Information Clinical Trials Network Contact Us             Breadcrumb   Home        Synthetic Cannabinoids (K2/Spice) DrugFacts                 Synthetic Cannabinoids (K2/Spice)   Synthetic Cannabinoids (K2/Spice) DrugFacts   Synthetic Cannabinoids (K2/Spice) Trends &amp; Statistics            DrugFacts   Synthetic Cannabinoids (K2/Spice) DrugFacts              What are synthetic cannabinoids?
 Synthetic cannabinoids are human-made mind-altering chemicals that are either sprayed on dried, shredded plant material so they can be smoked or sold as liquids to be vaporized and inhaled in e-cigarettes and other devices.
 These products are also known as herbal or liquid incense.
 These chemicals are called cannabinoids because they are similar to chemicals found in the marijuana plant.
 Because of this similarity, synthetic cannabinoids are sometimes misleadingly called synthetic marijuana (or fake weed), and they are often marketed as safe, legal alternatives to that drug.
 In fact, they are not safe and may affect the brain much more powerfully than marijuana; their actual effects can be unpredictable and, in some cases, more dangerous or even life-threatening.
 Synthetic cannabinoids are part of a group of drugs called new psychoactive substances (NPS).
 NPS are unregulated mind-altering substances that have become newly available on the market and are intended to produce the same effects as illegal drugs.
 Some of these substances may have been around for years but have reentered the market in altered chemical forms, or due to renewed popularity.
 False Advertising Synthetic cannabinoid products are often labeled "not for human consumption."
 However, the only parts of these products that are natural are the dried plant materials.
 Chemical tests show that the active, mind-altering ingredients are cannabinoid compounds made in laboratories.
 Manufacturers sell these products in colorful foil packages and plastic bottles to attract consumers.
 Hundreds of brands now exist, including K2, Spice, Joker, Black Mamba, Kush, and Kronic.
 For several years, synthetic cannabinoid mixtures have been easy to buy in drug paraphernalia shops, novelty stores, gas stations, and over the internet.
 Because the chemicals used in them have no medical benefit and a high potential for abuse, authorities have made it illegal to sell, buy, or possess some of these chemicals.
 However, manufacturers try to sidestep these laws by changing the chemical formulas in their mixtures.
 Easy access and the belief that synthetic cannabinoid products are natural and therefore harmless, have likely contributed to their use among young people.
 Another reason for their continued use is that standard drug tests cannot easily detect many of the chemicals used in these products.
 Image      How do people use synthetic cannabinoids?
 The most common way to use synthetic cannabinoids is to smoke the dried plant material.
 Users also mix the sprayed plant material with marijuana or brew it as tea.
 Other users buy synthetic cannabinoid products as liquids to vaporize in e-cigarettes.
 How do synthetic cannabinoids affect the brain?
 Synthetic cannabinoids act on the same brain cell receptors as THC (delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol), the mind-altering ingredient in marijuana.
 So far, there have been few scientific studies of the effects of synthetic cannabinoids on the human brain, but researchers do know that some of them bind more strongly than marijuana to the cell receptors affected by THC and can produce much stronger effects.
 The resulting health effects can be unpredictable and dangerous.
 Because the chemical composition of many synthetic cannabinoid products is unknown and may change from batch to batch, these products are likely to contain substances that cause dramatically different effects than the user might expect.
 Synthetic cannabinoid users report some effects similar to those produced by marijuana: elevated mood relaxation altered perception—awareness of surrounding objects and conditions symptoms of psychosis—delusional or disordered thinking detached from reality Psychotic effects include: extreme anxiety confusion paranoia—extreme and unreasonable distrust of others hallucinations—sensations and images that seem real though they are not What are some other health effects of synthetic cannabinoids?
 People who have used synthetic cannabinoids and have been taken to emergency rooms have shown severe effects including: rapid heart rate vomiting violent behavior suicidal thoughts Are synthetic cannabinoids addictive?
 Yes, synthetic cannabinoids can be addictive.
 Regular users trying to quit may have the following withdrawal symptoms: headaches anxiety depression irritability Behavioral therapies and medications have not specifically been tested for treatment of addiction to these products.
 Health care providers should screen patients for possible co-occurring mental health conditions.
 Can you overdose on synthetic cannabinoids?
 Yes.
 An overdose occurs when a person uses too much of a drug and has a dangerous reaction that results in serious, harmful symptoms or death.
 Use of synthetic cannabinoids can cause: toxic reactions elevated blood pressure reduced blood supply to the heart kidney damage seizures Deaths can also occur when dangerous synthetic opioids, such as fentanyl, are added to the packaged mixture without the user knowing it.
 Points to Remember Synthetic cannabinoids refer to a growing number of human-made mind-altering chemicals sprayed on dried, shredded plant material or vaporized to produce a high.
 Synthetic cannabinoids are sometimes misleadingly called synthetic marijuana (or fake weed) because they act on the same brain cell receptors as THC, the mind-altering ingredient in marijuana.
 The effects of synthetic cannabinoids can be unpredictable and severe or even life-threatening.
 The only parts of synthetic cannabinoid products that are natural are the dried plant materials.
 Chemical tests show that their active ingredients are human-made cannabinoid compounds.
 Synthetic cannabinoid users report some effects similar to those produced by marijuana: 	elevated mood relaxation altered perception symptoms of psychosis  Synthetic cannabinoids can also cause serious mental and physical health problems including: 	rapid heart rate vomiting violent behavior suicidal thoughts  Synthetic cannabinoids can be addictive.
 Behavioral therapies and medications have not specifically been tested for treatment of addiction to these products.
 Overdoses can occur and can cause: 	toxic reactions raised blood pressure reduced blood supply to the heart kidney damage seizures  Deaths can occur when dangerous synthetic opioids, such as fentanyl, are added without the user knowing.
 Learn More For additional information about synthetic cannabinoids, visit: NIDA for Teens Drug Facts on Spice - Offers resources for teens and teen influencers.
 Get the latest on how drugs affect the brain and body.
 Features videos, games, blog posts, and more!
 Easy-to-Read Drug Facts on Spice (K2) - Has pictures and videos to help readers understand the text.
 The website also can read each page out loud.
 This publication is available for your use and may be reproduced in its entirety without permission from NIDA.
 Citation of the source is appreciated, using the following language: Source: National Institute on Drug Abuse; National Institutes of Health; U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
 June 2020                Cite this article    APA Style MLA Style AMA Style      NIDA.
 2018, February 5.
 Synthetic Cannabinoids (K2/Spice) DrugFacts.
 Retrieved from https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugfacts/synthetic-cannabinoids-k2spice        NIDA.
 "Synthetic Cannabinoids (K2/Spice) DrugFacts."
 National Institute on Drug Abuse, 5 Feb. 2018, https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugfacts/synthetic-cannabinoids-k2spice        NIDA.
 Synthetic Cannabinoids (K2/Spice) DrugFacts.
 National Institute on Drug Abuse website.
 https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugfacts/synthetic-cannabinoids-k2spice.
 This external link provides additional information that is consistent with the intended purpose of federal site.
 The National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) or the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal site.
 Linking to a non-federal site does not constitute an endorsement by NIDA, HHS, or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the site.
 You will be subject to the destination site\u2019s privacy policy when you follow the link.
