DogTipperHome Dog Treat Recipes  Baked treat recipes Dehydrated dog treat recipes Dog chews recipes Frozen treats &amp; dog ice cream recipes Liver recipes Peanut butter dog treat recipes Pumpkin dog treat recipes Tips on making treats   Dog Walking Tips Giveaways  Rules + Winners’ Page   Pet Holidays Shop YUCKY PUPPY  Dog Walking Bag Shop Our Store   Freebies!
 + More  Day Trips  Dog-Friendly Stores Dog-Friendly Restaurants Texas Dog Day Trips   Dog Names Dog Quotes News Reviews Tips   You are here: Home / Tips / Ask Dr. Audrey: Does Ice Cause Bloat?Ask Dr. Audrey: Does Ice Cause Bloat?
 Paris Permenter Last updated on December 29, 2018  30 Jul  Share with fellow dog lovers!ShareTweetPin Our 10-year-old chow mix loves eating ice but someone told me that ice can cause bloat in dogs.
 Is this true?
 There have been rumors that ice and ice water causes a spasm of the stomach muscle in dogs, leading to a a swollen stomach, and potentially fatal bloat.
 These rumors are not true, for a couple of reasons.
 Firstly, while ice may cause a muscle spasm, this is more likely to cause vomiting.
 Secondly, if ice caused bloating, then we’d see more cases of bloat during winter in dogs that live outdoors in cold parts of the country, where their water bowl ices over, and this isn’t the case.
 I think that what is more likely is that dogs are given ice or iced water to drink when they are hot and thirsty, for example after heavy exercise.
 Under these circumstances, they are very likely to drink a lot of water very quickly, and this is a known risk factor for bloat.
 To prevent your dog getting bloat, feed several small meals a day instead of one or two large ones, don’t let them drink lots of water at once, and avoid exercise for an hour or so after mealtime.
 The purpose of this column is to educate.
 DogTipper shall have neither liability nor responsibility to any person or entity with respect to any loss or damage caused or alleged to be caused directly or indirectly by this site.
 This column does not replace the importance of specific advice from your own veterinarian.
 If you have any concerns at all about your dog’s health, please make an appointment with your vet.
 Filed Under: Tips About Paris PermenterParis Permenter is the founder and co-publisher of DogTipper.
 Along with her husband, John Bigley, she has authored over 30 books on pets and travel including The Healthy Hound Cookbook (Simon &amp; Schuster) and Texas with Dogs (Open Road).
 « Wordless Wednesday: Is It Winter Yet?Portland, Oregon Named Top Pet-Friendly City »  Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published.
 Required fields are marked *Comment Name *  Email *       This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.
 Learn how your comment data is processed.
 Hi!
 I'm Paris Permenter!
 I'm the founder of Yucky Puppy dog walking gear, and the co-author, with my husband, of 35 travel and pet books.
 I love long dog walks with our two rescue dogs--Tiki and Barli--and hope you enjoy our tips!
 Read more About Us Subscribe &amp; Fetch Freebies!
 Work with Us Contact Us Privacy Disclosure Statement    Tired of wagging a saggy poop bag?
 Get a YUCKY PUPPY!
 Be ready to walk in an instant with a YUCKY PUPPY Dog Walking Bag  Subscribe + fetch a free dog treat cookbook!
 LT Media Group LLC | Copyright 2008-2020 | All rights reserved  All product names, logos, and brands are property of their respective owners.
 All company, product and service names used in this website are for identification purposes only.
 Use of these names, logos, and brands does not imply endorsement.
