Skip to main content                                                               Home           Information on vaccines                 Vaccines in the UK                 The UK immunisation schedule           Routine childhood vaccines                 6-in-1 Vaccine           Rotavirus Vaccine           MenB Vaccine (Meningococcal B Vaccine)           PCV (Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine)           Hib/MenC Vaccine           MMR Vaccine (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Vaccine)           Nasal Flu Vaccine           Pre-school Booster           HPV Vaccine (Human Papillomavirus Vaccine)           Teenage Booster Vaccine           MenACWY Vaccine                  Routine adult vaccines                 Inactivated Flu Vaccine           Shingles Vaccine           PPV (Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Vaccine)                  Vaccines in pregnancy                 General information about vaccines in pregnancy           Pertussis (whooping cough) vaccine in pregnancy           Flu vaccine in pregnancy                  Vaccines for special groups                 Hepatitis A Vaccine           Hepatitis B Vaccine           BCG Vaccine (TB vaccine)           Chickenpox (Varicella) Vaccine                  General information on vaccines                  Vaccines previously in the UK schedule                 5-in-1 Vaccine           MenC Vaccine                  Vaccination schedules in other countries           New vaccines in development                 General information on vaccines in development           Group B Streptococcus           Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV)                  FAQs about vaccines                  Information on infectious diseases                 Chickenpox (Varicella)           Diphtheria           Hepatitis A           Hepatitis B           Hib disease (Haemophilus influenzae type b)           HPV (Human Papillomavirus)           Influenza (flu)           Measles           Meningococcal disease           Mumps           Pertussis (Whooping Cough)           Pneumococcal disease           Polio (Poliomyelitis)           Rotavirus           Rubella (German Measles)           Shingles           Tetanus           Tuberculosis (TB)           Coronavirus COVID-19                  Vaccine safety and science                 General vaccine safety           Vaccine ingredients                 Gelatine in vaccines                  Vaccine side effects and adverse reactions           Combination vaccines and multiple vaccinations           How vaccines are tested, licensed and monitored           Vaccines and premature babies           Herd immunity (herd protection)           Disease in vaccinated populations           What is a vaccine, and how do vaccines work?
 Before vaccines existed, these diseases used to kill thousands of children in the UK every year, as the table at the bottom of the page shows.
 It can safely be given at the same time as other vaccines in the schedule (see the full UK routine schedule for details of the other vaccines).
 It is a combination vaccine, which reduces the number of injections a child needs.
 See more about combination vaccines and multiple vaccinations and why these are not a risk to your child's immune system.
 The pre-school booster vaccines used in the UK do not contain any live bacteria or viruses.
 They cannot cause any of the diseases they protect against.
 Two brands of pre-school booster vaccine are used in the UK: Repevax (see the Patient Information Leaflet ) and Infanrix IPV (see the Patient Information Leaflet ).
 A third vaccine, Boostrix-IPV, is only used for pertussis vaccination in pregnancy.
 Who should have the vaccine?
 In the UK the pre-school booster is given at around 3 years and 4 months to children who received the initial doses of the vaccines in the first year of life (see the 5-in-1 vaccine for children born on or before 31st July 2017, and the 6-in-1 vaccine for children born on or after 1st August 2017).
 IngredientsThe pre-school booster vaccines used in the UK for children are called Repevax and Infanrix IPV.
 Apart from the active ingredients (the antigens), they contain very small amounts of these ingredients: Aluminium, which strengthens and lengthens the immune response to the vaccine Polysorbate, used as an emulsifier to hold other ingredients together (Repevax only) A very small amount of phenol, used as a preservative (Repevax only) Medium 199 (containing amino acids, mineral salts and vitamins), used as a stabiliser (Infanrix IPV only) Sodium chloride (salt) (Infanrix IPV only) Pre-school booster vaccines may also contain traces of these products used during the manufacturing process: neomycin, streptomycin or polymyxin B.
 These are antibiotics used to stop bacteria growing and contaminating the vaccine.
 formaldehyde or glutaraldehyde, used to inactivate the viruses in the vaccine.
 bovine serum albumin, used in the growing media for the vaccine (Repevax only).
 Growing the active ingredients for the vaccine: The polio part of the pre-school booster is grown in the laboratory using animal cell strains.
 Other brands of pre-school booster vaccines or 4-in-1 vaccines used in other countries may contain different ingredients.
 If you are not in the UK, ask for the Patient Information Leaflet for the vaccine you are offered.
 Side effectsVery common (affecting more than 1 in 10 people at each dose): pain, redness and swelling at the injection site temperature of 38°C or higher feeling irritable or restless tiredness or feeling sleepy loss of appetite unusual crying headache Common (affecting up to 1 in 10 people at each dose): feeling sick or being sick (nausea or vomiting) diarrhoea temperature of 39.5°C or higher hard lump at the injection site itching or skin inflammation in the area where the vaccine was injected generally feeling unwell or weak aching or swollen joints Many of these symptoms can be relieved by giving paracetamol (Calpol)if your child is over 2 months, or ibuprofen if your child is over 3 months and weighs more than 5kg (see NHS Choices for more advice on giving painkillers to babies and children).
 Very rare (affecting fewer than 1 in 10,000 people at each dose): high temperatures, sometimes leading to fits (also called convulsions or febrile seizures) unusual high-pitched screaming and hypotonic-hyporesponsive episodes (HHE), during which the child may become blue, pale and/or limp You should consult your doctor if your child experiences fits or HHE episodes after vaccination.
 This is mainly to check that it is the vaccine causing the symptoms, and not some unrelated disease.
 Symptoms such as fits can be very worrying for parents, but there is no evidence of long-term effects.
 Children can normally safely receive vaccines in the future.
 For more information on febrile seizures generally, see NHS Choices .
 Anaphylaxis As with any vaccine, medicine or food, there is a very small chance of a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis).
 Anaphylaxis is different from less severe allergic reactions because it causes life-threatening breathing and/or circulation problems.
 It is always extremely serious but can be treated with adrenaline.
 Health care workers who give vaccines know how to do this.
 In the UK between 1997 and 2003 there were a total of 130 reports of anaphylaxis following ALL immunisations.
 Around 117 million doses of vaccines were given in the UK during this period.
 This means that the overall rate of anaphylaxis is around 1 in 900,000.
 More information on side effects Reactions listed under ‘possible side effects’ or ‘adverse events’ on vaccine product information sheets may not all be directly linked to the vaccine.
 See Vaccine side effects and adverse reactions for more information on why this is the case.
 If you are concerned about any reactions that occur after vaccination, consult your doctor.
 In the UK you can report suspected vaccine side effects to the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) through the Yellow Card Scheme .
 You can also contact the MHRA to ask for data on Yellow Card reports for individual vaccines .
 See more information on the Yellow Card scheme and monitoring of vaccine safety.
 More information about the vaccine The pre-school booster vaccine used in the UK is sometimes referred to as DTaP/IPV, which stands for ‘Diphtheria, Tetanus, acellular Pertussis and Inactivated Polio Vaccine’.
 The vaccine includes the acellular pertussis vaccine (the ‘aP’ in ‘DTaP’).
 This uses only those parts of the pertussis (whooping cough) bacteria needed to produce an immune response.
 This greatly reduces the chance of serious side effects such as high temperatures, screaming episodes, and HHE (see section on 'Side effects' above).
 The whole cell (wP) vaccine used in the UK until 2004 contained many more antigens and had a greater risk of side effects.
 The vaccine also includes inactivated polio virus (IPV).
 As this is inactivated, it cannot cause polio (which was a very small risk with the live, oral polio vaccine used in the UK until 2004).
 Does the vaccine work?The table below shows the average number of deaths in the UK each year, before and after introduction of a vaccine: Disease Before After Diphtheria 3500 0 Tetanus 200 0 Pertussis 1000 3 Polio 200 0 TOTAL 4900 3 Source: Public Health England Page last updated: Monday, September 9, 2019                       Diseases                Tetanus   Tetanus is an infection of the nervous system that is always serious and often fatal.
 The... Read more                 Polio (Poliomyelitis)   Polio is an infectious disease caused by a virus.
 The virus reproduces itself in the gut and can... Read more                 Pertussis (Whooping Cough)   Pertussis or whooping cough is a highly infectious disease which can lead to serious... Read more             1 of 2 next ›      Other vaccines in this category                MMR Vaccine (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Vaccine)                 Nasal Flu Vaccine                                 © Oxford Vaccine Group 2020     Centre for Clinical Vaccinology and Tropical Medicine, Churchill Hospital, University of Oxford, OX3 7LE.
 Medical content reviewed by Professor Andrew Pollard.Please click here to contact us if you have comments about the Vaccine Knowledge website.
 We can’t answer all the individual queries we get, but we will use your suggestions and questions to improve the website.
 You should consult your doctor or other healthcare provider if you need specific advice on vaccines for you or your child.
 The Vaccine Knowledge Project is funded by the NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Centre and the Oxford Martin School.
 Freedom of Information | Privacy Policy | Cookies Statement | Copyright Statement | Accessibility Statement
