U.S.
 Politics   World   Tech   Entertainment              Subscribe                         SUBSCRIBE         How Joe Biden Won How Donald Trump Lost Election Protests Historic Wins Newsletter                 Close            Sections            Home                    U.S.
 Politics                    World                    Health                    Personal Finance by NextAdvisor                    Business                    Tech                    Entertainment                    Ideas                    Science                    History                    Newsfeed                    Sports                    Magazine                    Video                    The TIME Vault                    TIME for Kids                    TIME Edge             Join Us            Newsletters                    Subscribe                    Give a Gift                    Shop the TIME Store             Reach Out            Careers                    Press Room                    Contact the Editors                    U.S.
 Customer Service                    E.U.
 Customer Service                    Asia Customer Service                    Reprints and Permissions             More            Privacy Policy                    Your California Privacy Rights                    Terms of Use                    Site Map             Connect with Us                                                                         Sports                        NFL                    The NFL Still Won't Tackle Brain Trauma at the Super Bowl             The NFL Still Won't Tackle Brain Trauma at the Super Bowl                      Rodger Goodell in Miami, Fl.
 on Feb. 7, 2010.
 Tom Hauck—AP                By                Sean Gregory                     February 6, 2016 2:33 PM EST            Just a week before the NFL was set to stage the biggest sporting event of the year, the league released its latest concussion data: incidence rose 58% during the regular season.
 On Feb. 3, the New York Times reported that Kenny “The Snake” Stabler, the Super Bowl-winning quarterback from the Oakland Raiders who died in July, was diagnosed with CTE, the football-related degenerative brain disease.
 Former Minnesota Vikings linebacker Fred McNeill, who died in November, also had the disease.
 On the eve of Super Bowl 50 between the Carolina Panthers and Denver Broncos, the NFL can’t still escape its concussion crisis.
 What’s worse, the league still refuses to come to terms with it.
 Instead of sending an honest public health message — our game is dangerous, we’re trying to make things safer, but play at your own peril — the NFL obfuscates its way around safety.
 At his annual pre-Super Bowl press conference, NFL commissioner Roger Goodell responded to a question about safety by noting that “there’s risks in life, there’s risks to sitting on a couch.” According to a report from ESPN, the NFL’s donations for brain trauma research are often directed to league-affiliated doctors.
 And at a Feb. 4 event Dr. Mitchel Berger, a neurosurgeon at the University of California, San Francisco and a member of the NFL’s Head, Neck and Spine Committee, was asked by Toronto Star columnist Bruce Arthur if there’s a link between football and degenerative brain disorders.
 “No,” Berger said, in a response that harkened back to the NFL’s pre-2009 League of Denial days, when a league medical advisor refused to acknowledge that multiple head injuries sustained in football were linked with depression, dementia, or other cognitive problems.
 Berger’s refusal to admit a link between football and brain disorders was especially surprising, since the league had finally acknowledged that connection years ago.
 “It’s quite obvious from the medical research that’s been done that concussions can lead to long-term problems,” NFL spokesman Greg Aiello told the New York Times in 2009.
 “It doesn’t take a lot to jump to the conclusion that constant banging in the head is not going to be in your best interest,” commissioner Roger Goodell told TIME in a 2012 interview.
 Commenting on Berger’s remarks, Dr. Julian Bailes, chairman of neurosurgery at the NorthShore Neurological Institute and a former team doctor for the Pittsburgh Steelers, said: “It’s a step backwards.
 And it’s counterproductive.” TIME reached out for a comment from the NFL, which made Berger available for a follow-up interview.
 Berger said he told Arthur there was no link between football and degenerative brain disorders because, in Berger’s mind, the word link means “a one to one relationship between playing and getting CTE.” So for Berger, saying football is “linked” to CTE is the equivalent of saying “if you play football, you will get CTE.”      Which isn’t true: as far as we know, the vast majority of NFL players don’t suffer from CTE.
 Still, in this explanation, Berger is using an awfully strict definition of link.
 A link implies a connection or association, not automatic cause and effect, as Berger is arguing.
 Smoking, for example, is linked to cancer, even though plenty of smokers live cancer-free.
 “Right now, there is absolutely no question that there is an association between having a history of repetitive hits to the head and later-life neurodegenerative disease, and in particular chronic traumatic encephalopathy,” says Dr. Robert Stern, professor of neurology at the Boston University School of Medicine, and director of clinical research at BU’s Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy Center.
 “I’ve never known of a scientific distinction between link and association.” Berger, however, makes such a distinction.
 “I prefer the word association,” Berger says.
 OK; so Berger would at least have to acknowledge a simple association between football and CTE, correct?
 “Well, what I would say is we know from the former players who have been evaluated, who have CTE, they’ve played football,” says Berger.
 “So the question is, is there an association?
 [Note: I just asked that].
 We’re concerned of course that there could be an association.
 Because we recognize the fact that there are long-term effects.
 But now we have to really understand to what degree those long-term effects occur.” Wait: yes or no, is there an association between football and CTE and/or other brain diseases?
 “There’s an association between football, we think, or any traumatic brain injury, and possible long-term effects in terms of neurodegeneration,” says Berger.
 “We do know, I would say unequivocally there are former players who have developed CTE.
 So there can be association.
 I would be the first one to say that.” To recap: Berger won’t say there’s a link between football and CTE, because the word “association” is fairer description of the relationship.
 But he can’t for sure say there’s an association, even though he recognizes former NFL players have the disease.
 The semantics dance is maddening.
 In fairness to Berger, however, he never denies that football-related brain trauma can lead to CTE or any cognitive disease.
 He doesn’t deny football’s risks.
 Further, admitting a link, or even an association, between football and CTE could put the NFL at risk.
 “In a legal sense, that could be the equivalent of admitting causation,” says Marc Edelman, associate professor of law at Baruch College in New York City.
 Still, evading easy questions hurts the NFL’s credibility.
 Of course football is linked to CTE; Boston University researchers have diagnosed CTE in 90 of 94 brains of ex-NFL players they’ve have examined.
 As the commissioner himself once said, banging your head won’t help your brain.
 So why should anyone trust the NFL on safety, when the league itself can’t just talk straight?
 Most Popular on TIME  1  Here Are The Recent Trump Campaign Lawsuits    2  Biden: 'This Is the Time to Heal in America'    3  The History Behind 2020's Record Voter Turnout Numbers        Get The Brief.
 Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know right now.
 Please enter a valid email address.
 Sign Up Now               Check the box if you do not wish to receive promotional offers via email from TIME.
 You can unsubscribe at any time.
 By signing up you are agreeing to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
 This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
 For your security, we've sent a confirmation email to the address you entered.
 Click the link to confirm your subscription and begin receiving our newsletters.
 If you don't get the confirmation within 10 minutes, please check your spam folder.
 Write to Sean Gregory at sean.gregory@time.com.
 SHARE THIS STORY                                       Read More From TIME            Related Stories            Read Next    NFL Fines Titans $350K for COVID-19 Violations        Next Up: Editor's Pick    America Had a Reckoning on Race This Year.
 The Election Showed How Little Has Changed           EDIT POST                        Give the Gift of TIME this Christmas Save on the cover price &amp; free e-Gift card for Giftees!
 SUBSCRIBE NOW                   Sign Up for Newsletters Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know now on politics, health and more    SUBSCRIBE                   Home                U.S.
 Politics                World                Health                Personal Finance by NextAdvisor                Business                Tech                Entertainment                     Ideas                Science                History                Newsfeed                Sports                Magazine                The TIME Vault                TIME For Kids                TIME Edge                     Video                Masthead                Newsletters                Subscribe                Give a Gift                Shop the TIME Store                Careers                Press Room                Contact the Editors                     U.S.
 Customer Service                E.U.
 Customer Service                Asia Customer Service                Reprints and Permissions                Site Map               © 2020 TIME USA, LLC.
 All Rights Reserved.
 Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use, Privacy Policy (Your California Privacy Rights) and Do Not Sell My Personal Information.
 TIME may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website.
 Offers may be subject to change without notice.
 | EU Data Subject Requests
