A lot of hairstylists swear on their hair-dryers that it is awful for your hair.
 Supposedly, it coats your hair with plastic or wax to make it seem smooth, soft, and shiny, instead of really moisturizing your hair.
 It also reportedly makes your scalp itchy and hair fall out.
 However, I’ve been using the Pantene Restoratives shampoo and conditioner for a few months now, and I find my hair less frizzy, more manageable, smoother, and softer.
 Of course, I also use John Frieda Anti-Frizz Serum and Pantene Pro-V Restoratives Frizz Control Ultra Smoothing Balm (I highly recommend the latter, just apply to wet hair).
 Phew, that was long.
 So, my question is: Is Pantene good or bad for my hair?
 The Beauty Brains respond: Sophie, please don’t fall into the trap of believing everything your stylist tells you.
 (That’s one of the The Beauty Brains Basic Beliefs.)
 While most stylists are very talented at cutting and styling hair, they’re not very talented at interpreting cosmetic formulations.
 The truth is, Pantene’s shampoo and conditioner formulas are believed to be among the best in the industry by those of us in the cosmetic science side of the business.
 It makes sense if you think about it.
 P&amp;G, makers of Pantene, have a HUGE research budget.
 Certainly larger than any salon company.
 That means they can afford to dedicate resources to developing and testing the best formulas possible.
 We’ve seen Pantene formulas beat the pants of salon products in blind consumer testing.
 (The products are hidden or blinded, not the consumers) Why is Pantene vilified?
 So why do stylists say that Pantene coats the hair with plastic, or make it fall out?
 Because that’s what they’re told by the sales representatives for the salon companies.
 And the truth is, it’s just not true!
 Compare the ingredient lists for Pantene conditioner and any salon brand you can find.
 There’s nary a plastic to be found in Pantene.
 And no, it doesn’t make your hair fall out either.
 The Beauty Brains Bottom Line: You can choose whatever you like – a retail brand like Pantene, a salon brand like Matrix or a new brand like Phique.
 But shop around and find a product you like and make your own decisions based on your own experience.
 Don’t pass on Pantene because of stylist anti-hype.
 I think you believe in Pantene Shampoo as well as Conditioner.
 Reply Link      Gwendolyn hall March 29, 2020, 7:34 pm   I love pantene shampoo is my favorite shampoo i used the clean shampoo 1 and 2   Reply Link        Jeffery February 4, 2014, 7:10 pm   People who don’t know any better will always suggest pantene.
 Its everywhere… buses, billboards, cable.
 Its easy to remember the name.
 My grandma and I have used that for a good 3 years thinking damn the stuff is good.
 Then I was forced into going to my friends hair dresser and bought a shampoo and conditioner from her.
 it was All soft by redken shampoo and the matrix biolage exquisite oil.
 It was like nothing that has ever felt or seen my hair do after just one use.
 I soon bought that for my 87 year old grandma whos hair was beyond damaged.
 I sh*t you not her hair after a week of using it made her look 30 years younger.
 it looked healthier and she had curls again!
 I was astonished what a difference it made.
 MY POINT IS DONT BUY THE CRAP PANTENE MAKES and advertises….
 just cause they sell so much of it doesn’t mean its good it means ITS CHEAP in every sense.
 YOU REALLY DO GET WHAT YOU PAY FOR!!!
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller February 4, 2014, 7:55 pm   @Jeffery: Thanks for the story based on your single, personal experience.
 If Pantene is really that bad how do you account for the thousands of data points we’ve seen that show, on a blinded basis, that women prefer Pantene over most drug store and salon brands?
 Believe me, we have no reason to recommend Pantene.
 We’ve never worked for that company and we don’t make any money from the brand.
 But EVERY time we’ve tested it over the last 15 years or so it has scored extremely well.
 Each test ran between 2 weeks to a month and involved hundreds of women across the US and in some cases the UK, so it’s not like only a few panelists used the product only once or twice.
 I’d love to hear how you explain away all that data.
 Reply Link      Rose June 30, 2015, 6:42 pm   Lol data…data collected by self-serving companies out to muse money with their cancer causing and untested ingredients.
 Any ingredient with a number after it or so many letters I can hardly pronounce it is probably man-made and unnecessary.
 Sad world we live in when people care more about how they look than the state of their health -_-   Reply Link      Randy Schueller June 30, 2015, 8:45 pm   @Rose: It’s that you chose to equate the name of a chemical with its safety.
 That’s a very naive attitude.
 Also, have you ever looked up these “untested” ingredients yourself?
 If you’d bother to, you’d find there’s quite a bit of safety data associated with this “untested” ingredients.
 Let me ask you this: what kind of evidence would it take to change your mind?
 Reply Link      Lauren November 14, 2016, 3:50 pm   Pantene uses so much silicone in their products.
 Silicone is sort of a waxy and plastics product that will just coat your hair making it look shiny and soft without actually keeping in any moisture.
 It’ll act as sort of a barrier to letting any moisture in.
 I suggest using silicone free shampoo.
 Link          Kristen Wilson July 24, 2015, 6:17 pm   I am a Master Cosmetologist and I have a degree in Applied Science as well and Its not about Pantene and Matrix/Redken/BlahBlahBlah ingredients being the same, Its the fact that Pantene uses cheaper, less pure ingredients hence the cheaper price.
 Also, people may love the way their hair feels with Pantene, BUT they are using harsher chemicals to get that nice soft feeling.
 You can have horrible damage happening to your hair but use a chemical that makes it feel soft and shiny.
 If you want the best shampoo/conditioner for your hair at the cheapest price, use Loreal Everpure from any department store or grocery store.
 First of all, Loreal OWNS Redken, Matrix, &amp; most of the other salon brands.
 The fact that this incompetent idiot who replied back to the original question stating that Hair Stylists don’t know anything about formulations, you clearly don’t know what all a Cosmetologist has to learn in College.
 I had to take Anatomy &amp; Physiology classes, Chemistry, Electricity, plus MUCH MORE before I even learned how to do any hair.
 Maybe you should know more about stuff before answering questions, instead of giving people inaccurate information.
 Just stating a fact.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller July 25, 2015, 3:07 pm   Hi Kristen.
 Are you referring to the part of our answer where we said “While most stylists are very talented at cutting and styling hair, they’re not very talented at interpreting cosmetic formulations”?
 We didn’t mean that to be disrespectful and we fully understand that stylists have some training in cosmetic ingredients.
 However, that training doesn’t include much background information on the sourcing and chemical composition of the ingredients.
 If it did, you would understand that salon companies buy the same grade of ingredients as mass market companies do.
 If you’d care to explain EXACTLY which ingredients Pantene uses and how they are cheaper, less pure, and harsher than salon brand ingredients we’d be glad to continue the discussion.
 Otherwise, we thank you for taking the time to state your personal beliefs but we prefer to share facts with our readers not just unsubstantiated opinions.
 And, FYI, taking classes in Anatomy, Physiology, Chemistry, and Electricity does give you helpful background information but it does not provide the same level of insight and breadth of expertise as actually spending decades formulating hair care products.
 Reply Link      blake March 1, 2017, 12:57 am   Kristin said that she had a degree in applied science, not just a few courses.
 Also, it’s pretty clear that you represent pantene.
 Link      Randy Schueller March 2, 2017, 7:27 am   An applied science degree has “a few” chemistry courses compared to a degree in chemistry (or training in cosmetic chemistry.)
 Also, just for the record, we don’t represent Pantene in any way whatsoever.
 Link        carmen October 3, 2015, 8:03 am   I agree with Kristen Wilson!
 no more comments!
 Reply Link      Ann January 23, 2016, 11:03 pm   Are you usually this rude?
 Or only to professional chemists who respond with facts and courtesy to consumers like me who are confused by ingredient labels?
 Link      Mia May 25, 2018, 1:23 am   Randy sounds like the more rational voice of reason to me.
 Lol!
 I am a trained cosmetologist.
 But I have worked in the Pharma &amp; Cosmetic Industry for years.
 I will trust the research &amp; Development teams any day 😉 Just saying.
 Link        Heather January 8, 2016, 10:51 pm   All salon products… Regardless of their extremely long chemical name…work differently for different types of hair (and different people… with different lifestyles… in different environments) and most people are honestly clueless as to what combination of chemicals (or salon products) will work best to solve their particular issue.
 Also, many results, positive or negative, are the result of long term use of a product.
 So, most of us NEED someone to ask… And we need to know that the info.
 we are given is CORRECT!
 My best advice is simply common sense.
 RESEARCH YOUR STYLIST.
 I do not put my faith in most cosmetologists that work for huge chain salons.
 I do, however, completely trust MY stylist…who does not fall into the above catagory.
 Do your homework before trusting your hair to just any cosmetologist.
 It is perfectly OK to phone a higher end salon and request information concerning any past experience, education, and CONTINUED education a cosmetologist may have.
 You will pay more for a great stylist, but it is MORE than worth it.
 You want to find an experienced stylist who not only continues to educate themselves in multiple categories of cosmetology, but also one who is PASSIONATE about their trade.
 I guarantee that once your research is complete, you will find a stylist whom you can trust with all of the important questions.. and one who also excels at their art.
 (I have been known to even search out cosmetologists who continue to teach and travel.
 If there is a demand for them elsewhere, they must know their trade well) However, be prepared to pay for the proffesional treatment.
 And, tip them WELL.
 Once you have found a truly educated- and passionate stylist- that YOU can trust, you want to KEEP THEM.
 You will never have to google a questionable concern again…not when you can get it straight from your PERSONALLY researched cosmetologists.
 I DO NOT know the answers to the hair care questions that matter, but I certainly DO know how to find a trusted proffesional who CAN answer them.
 DON’T trust everything you read on line.
 A million STYLISTS have a million opinions, and they are not all as educated in their field as their answers may portray.
 The only way to get really good information is to search out and select your teacher…or cosmetologists- as in this particular instance.
 As a footnote, I would like to say that I …in NO way… intended to put down ANY stylists working for a “huge” salon chain.
 Many of these individuals are EXTREMELY good at what they do, and will most certainly move on to bigger and better things.
 We must all gain experience and start somewhere!
 Those chain stylists that show passion AND a real desire to continue their education in this field are the individuals that I would most certainly grant a chance to.
 However, I would not trust advice from anyone that I had not researched properly.
 But that is ONLY my opinion, and no harm intended.
 Again, different products work differently for different people… So getting to the “root” of the problem (a little stylist’s humor) is of utmost importance before answers and suggestions are given.
 Educate yourself before choosing your “teacher”.
 Your hair is only as good as your stylist!
 Reply Link      Licensed Cosmetologist January 31, 2016, 3:49 pm   Hi.
 As a licensed Cosmetologist with an abundance of experience, talent, body of knowledge and years of continuing education I would like to refute your opinion about “chain salons”.
 My years of experience in the industry have shown me that people who are MORE experienced work either for themselves (in their own sola type salon) or in chain salons because they make far more money in those situations than working for “high end” salons.
 Also, in many cases we know that rhe constant exposure to toxic chemicals in full service salons is very detrimental to our health.
 The stylists in chain salons do fewer chemical services and more haircuts, so they use far fewer chemicals in chain salons.
 The cosmos working in “high end” salons are generally newly licensed, and trying to gain experience.
 There are usually 1 or 2 experienced cosmos out of the 10-15 who work in these places.
 I’m glad your experience has been positive.
 But, please know that I see several clients a week coming to me (I work for myself ) to fix the “high end” disaster made of their hair.
 Link      Jodi January 22, 2017, 12:56 am   Hi, I know a school York Vo-tech the teacher cut my hair n she did it how she cuts her hair so I am trying not to flip!
 Than I ment someone that chopped my hair an she works at hair cutters salon so I’m not going to trust them again.
 I put hats on to go out it’s like she killed my hair she said she thinned it she took the cutter an shaved my hair, not off but took strands an shaved my sides.
 I never had anyone do that to me!
 I am very picky took care of my long hair( love for locks) I have been working on getting my healthy hair back don’t know why but my hair won’t grow right it keeps breaking.
 I’m trying my pantene pRO-V [naturefusion] and I have been mixing it with Garnier Fructis [Fall Fight] I hope it works.
 I have had alot of cosmologists tell me not to use an I did an my hair looked better than their hair, But they always wanted me to use something… I just want my hair back most of them tell me what helps them… I’m not them!
 How much it cost to get hair cut sorry but alot of cosmologists in York pa. need more schooling an learn how to cut hair that looks good on the person an have the product sellers come in an sell on certain days to the customers an let the stylist do what they are to do cut it the right way.
 The dealers can come in an let the customers try the product that they want, I hope all a beautiful hair day every day!
 Link      Anjoyla February 3, 2017, 10:22 am   First let me say after reading the responses this is what I think.
 I went to cosmetology school.
 I also went to college .
 I think that cosmetologist are very good at cutting an styling with everything there are some that specialize i.e.
 Color.
 The on going battle about salon products vs drugstore shampoos is old.
 Here is my take.
 There are some salon brands that work nicely an some drugstore brands.
 I myself am allergic to a great deal of products.
 Found this out the hard way all of Redken products break my scalp out.
 Certain drugstore brands an salon brands do to.
 I tried Tresse Me an that made my hair fall out.
 I went to the dermatologist this is what I found out certain sulfates affect the scalp pores.
 I tried Lorel products an scalp broke out.
 Was directed to Baby shampoo.
 But to clear up the breakout you have to use Neutrogena tar shampoo.
 An A anti dandruff.
 I found Clear worked beautifully they just switched to Dove anti dandruff.
 After it is cleared up baby shampoo an Therapee or Pantene then for conditioner Humectress.
 Pantene has never left a film over my hair.
 Early on when it began it was heavily perfumed.
 Now thou I think if you alternate you should have no problem.
 Also you can do a baking soda mixture that takes build off.
 I think you have to try products an find the ones that work for you.
 I don’t think it is an either or.
 Some people have families an salon products are higher.
 The salon marks these up an the stylist selling this product gets credit for it or a percentage.
 I have used almost everything in the market.
 An I think each of us is unique.
 I don’t think the scientist is wrong or the cosmitoligust.
 They both are viewing it from different perspectives.
 I think instead of the back an forth working together maybe products could be recommended to help.
 There are a great deal of factors to consider.
 Type of hair, colored, or not dry or oily, allergies, goals of what you are expecting.
 I think all this plays into things.
 I hope this helps you all.
 Link        april March 26, 2018, 9:07 pm   Kristen- which shampoos do you recommend?
 Reply Link      A.L.
 Maxwell July 27, 2018, 1:41 pm   Yes it is true, we had to learn way more than hair in cosmetology school,and Pantene is NOT good.
 If so, why do no salons carry it, not even smartstyles, or any Regis owned salons !
 @   Reply Link      Perry Romanowski February 26, 2019, 4:08 pm   They don’t carry it because they can’t make a profit off of Pantene.
 Simple mathematics.
 Not to worry, salon products are fine too they just aren’t better.
 Link      Andrea Werdann March 24, 2019, 9:13 pm   Strange, I have tried many different shampoos over the course of time, even giving Pantene a try, against my stylist’s suggestion, and my scalp got an allergic reaction to something in the formula.
 I get the same reaction from Tresemme products.
 I find it hard to believe that the quality of the formula is safe for hair if my scalp itself is having a bad reaction to it.
 Link        Stephanie Bunetic February 5, 2020, 6:02 pm   Dear Randy and THE Beauty BrainS TEAM,   Thank You for sharing Your knowledge with the beauty world.
 I enjoy Your input so very much.
 I have spent more money in My adult life trying to find the BEST of THE BEST Shampoo and conditioners.
 I have purchased EVERYTHING on the market from EACH and EVERY price point.
 I can attest to Your Claims.
 You are so honest and RIGHT!!
 Many uber high end products left my hair coated, frizzy fried.
 Many so called Clean Beauty NO Sulfide products left my beautiful hair so tangled and matted you would have thought i had been in some type of hair crash test course.
 You and Your Team ARE so kind to share Your Scientific Research to save all of us the frantic search or scare hair tactics used to sway our purchases.
 Please keep up the Amazing Work…You are so very appreciated.
 Love Always,                    Stephanie 🙂   Reply Link      Marla Rangeloff August 17, 2020, 12:17 pm   I disagree entirely with you, hair is dead matter, i have bought every shampoo under the sun, high priced and low priced, and especially if your hair is damaged pantene works wonders, and yes even after repeated use!
 It cleans well, and conditions well !
 Even if it did build up on the hair you are always supposed to clarify in-between anyways, just like if you use too much protein based conditioners, my hair speaks for itself, its long, strong, and shiny!
 Reply Link        Sue March 12, 2016, 7:58 pm   Okay I’m a hairstylist and I loveeeeee Pantene,I seriously just started using it,And my hair looks and feels amazing.I will not go back to using products in my salon .Despite what my manager says.
 Reply Link      licensedCosmetologistforyears September 15, 2016, 3:17 am   Hey girl, I’m in TOTAL agreement with you!!
 I’ve been a licensed cosmetologist who works behind the chair for years.
 In my professional experience, I have noticed zero difference in my client’s hair using salon brands vs. Drug store brands.
 In fact, the drug store and salon brands are many times owned by the same parent company, made is the same materials, in the same factory, using the same formulas.
 Only the package and fragrance are changed.
 So, what does make a difference?
 I find many clients do not choose the correct products for themselves, and they use them incorrectly.
 Once I correct that, they see increased product performance regardless of product line.
 Also, diet, exercise, and other lifestyle factors have a far greater impact than product.
 Smoking, drugs, booze and excessive UV exposure have an immensely negative effect on hair, skin, and nails.
 Far more negative than any product.
 So, let the haters hate.
 They have been brain washes from the time they began cosmetology school with pseudo -science, wives tales, and flat out lies from the vendors.
 The truth is that our industry stays afloat only with product sales.
 Salons that do not retail can not stay open.
 It costs almost as much to perform services as we charge for them.
 The companies are “diverting” their own products to increase premium sales.
 Products keep our doors open.
 And the salon companies are raising prices on a regular basis.
 It’s actually kind of a “conspiracy”.
 It’s all about their greed, NOT what’s best for the clients.
 Use what you like.
 As for pantene?
 I think it’s just fine.
 There are a lot of drug store brands that work well.
 Don’t believe me?
 Dig deeper ND start contacting companies like I did.
 You will NEVER pay for salon brands again.
 Reply Link      jean l forichon June 9, 2017, 10:10 am   I am a guy with long hair and I switched to Pantene Pro V shampoo and conditioner about 6 months ago.
 My hair has never been so nice and my scalp does not itch and I have no dandruff at all.
 The Pantene Conditioners are amazing.
 And like you said, you need to choose the correct treatment for your hair.
 Link        Charnese Thompson September 4, 2018, 6:43 pm   Thanks i just purchased pantene and was sceptical about using it   Reply Link      Larissa Plett March 16, 2020, 1:36 am   I use Pantene.
 Wouldn’t trade it for anything.
 But that being said.
 Not every product is going to work for everyone.
 There are certain shampoos I cant use…   Link        Gina Adams November 5, 2018, 11:51 pm   Same!
 I have been a hairstylist for 10+ years and I was always told not to use Pantene because it’s garbage and coats the hair.
 BUT I will say I was confused every single time I would ask a client what they use because their hair is REALLY healthy it was always Pantene.
 I mean I really never noticed anyone’s hair looking as healthy, shiny, thick, and every single time the response was always Pantene.
 I grew up in my moms salon that she worked in and pretty much always used some professional shampoo, biolage, Paul Mitchell, and as a stylist I’ve used so many brands, surface, bumble and bumble, Wella, goldwell, the list goes on and on.
 So, I decided to experiment with otc products.
 And I picked up a bottle of Garnier sleek and shine shampoo and conditioner.
 I was shocked at how well this performed.
 Once that was used up, I tried Pantene.
 My life changed!
 I had never had any product make my hair feel and look so bouncy, soft, smooth, and I literally could not believe it.
 All these years telling clients don’t use it, because that’s what I’ve been told, and I felt like wow this must be the best product I’ve ever used.
 I used it for a few months and people started noticing my hair was getting super long and I hadn’t needed a trim because my ends didn’t get split or tangly.
 I think that the real reason why hairdressers do not recommend it is because if you use it you won’t need your hair done as much!!!!!!
 Also they don’t make any money off recommending products they don’t carry in the salon.
 Go with your gut and if you like a product don’t let anyone tell you otherwise!!!
 Reply Link        Sue November 9, 2016, 6:04 pm   I work in the Hair retail industry.
 I get many people coming in saying ” my hair is dry,frizzy etc, and I need something to smooth my hair” i ask what shampoo they are using and often it’s Pantene.
 I try to explain to them about using a high quality shampoo/conditioner then they may not need the extra products .
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller November 10, 2016, 9:27 am   Pantene is one of the top selling products in the industry so it it makes sense that you find a lot of your clients use it.
 That doesn’t prove that the use of Pantene causes dry/frizzy hair.
 Reply Link      Marla Rangeloff August 17, 2020, 12:22 pm   I think the exact opposite!!
 Pantene makes my hair smoother than ever!!
 Never stop making this great product!!!
 Link          Danielle Locicero December 5, 2016, 5:29 pm   Hey Randy, You say not to blindly follow stylist recommendation but why should we blindly listen to you.
 You talk about data (hearsay/subjective opinions) of how many people LOVE Pantene.
 Can I see these peer reviewed studies?
 What kind of scientist are you?
 I myself have witnessed physical evidence of build up from drug store shampoos, namely Pantene that seem to leave something on the hair.
 Would gladly change my point of view if you established a case based on science.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller December 6, 2016, 8:18 am   Danielle: You make a good point that we should not take anecdotal stories from people who love Pantene as evidence of anything.
 I also agree that I would love to see peer reviewed studies measuring conditioner buildup of drug store vs salon brands but I’m not aware of any.
 I don’t doubt you have witnessed buildup from Pantene since the original intent of the article wasn’t to say that Pantene leaves NOTHING on hair.
 (After all, ALL conditioners have to leave something behind on the hair or they would have no effect).
 Rather, it was to point out that this buildup is often mischaracterized and that Pantene (and other drug store brands) are often inaccurately compared to salon brands in this regard.
 As a good scientist, I could ask for those who make such claims to provide data to support their assertions.
 Until I see such data I’m skeptical based on my understanding of those types of formulas.
 Thanks for taking the time to comment!
 Reply Link        Matisen March 29, 2017, 1:52 pm   I just want to know, is it true that pantene is bad for your hair.
 For about almost a month I’ve been using pantene and it smooths and shines my hair for up to 3 or 4 days then I use pantene again.
 So far my hair is smooth but no shine even when I first tried it there was no shine.
 On the 3rd or 4th day my head started to ich then my hair gets greasy then I half to take another shower but I still use pantene.
 My hair growth has been is the middle from short and long hair and the growth of my hair is very slow.
 So far it haven’t gotten any longer.
 So is pantene really bad for your hair?
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller March 29, 2017, 2:00 pm   As we explained in the post, there is no scientific evidence that we are aware of that indicates Pantene is bad for your hair.
 If you don’t like the way your hair feels after using it then I suggest you try another product.
 Reply Link      Franky olguin March 12, 2019, 3:19 pm   The same thing happened to me.
 I was using it for 3 weeks and my hair started actually falling out.
 Everytime I go to get a haircut the stylist has to thin it out ALOT but this last time I went she noticed it super thin and greasey and I had little bumps all over my scalp and asked me if I switched and I told her yes to Pantene.
 Well everyone in the salon started going off on how bad it is and grabbed some scissors to scrap off all that waxy build up to show me.
 She also detoxified my scalp with some good shampoo and when she was scrubbing my head I could hear and feel all the bumps pop.
 Well I bought some better shampoo from there that wasn’t to pricy and my hair grew back!
 My hair wasn’t greasy anymore and just felt so much healthier.
 More importantly my hair doesn’t fall out in the shower and is GROWING BACK!
 P.s I looked to see if this was happening to anyone else and I’m glad I found somewhere that was having the same problems with that shampoo Pantene.
 Reply Link        Rae May 24, 2017, 3:02 am   Maybe because people like myself haven’t heard anything about the damage Pantene does to your hair.
 05/23/17 was the first I had heard of it being damaging.
 Here I was thinking, I just was getting older.
 I have always had very THICK &amp; COURSE hair, shoulder length.
 Within the last few years that I’ve used Pantene, I noticed my hair thinning.
 It was longer (pass the shoulders) but thinner.
 I gotta get a new shampoo or go back to the days where my grandmother mixed things up in the kitchen (beer, eggs, mayo, onion, etc.)
 Reply Link      Cath July 12, 2017, 3:37 pm   Well I’ve used Pantene conditioner for the last four washes and each time I noticed lots of hair falling out, then I noticed my pony tail was thinner than usual.
 Tonight I didn’t use Pantene and there is no hair fall out!
 I won’t be using it again.
 Reply Link      Heather September 19, 2017, 6:00 pm   I’m thinking that the fighters for this over the counter GARBAGE, have lined pockets.
 And the “research” has been conducted by yours truly “Maker!”   Reply Link      Randy Schueller September 21, 2017, 7:34 am   I’m not sure I understand your point Heather.
 Are you saying that because we believe that Pantene is an effective product that we have “lined pockets” from money that is somehow paid us?
 That’s simply not true.
 Other than the few dollars we make from Amazon sales commissions we don’t make anything from this product.
 Also, I’m not sure how you can claim the product is “garbage.” Scientific testing (done by other companies than the maker) show that Pantene is one of the best technically performing products on the market.
 Sales data supports that many people like the product as it is a top seller.
 So you may not like the way it feels on your hair but to call it “garbage” is more than a little biased and presumptuous on your part.
 Some people love Pantene other people hate it it, but the facts are the facts.
 Thanks for your comment.
 Reply Link          linda June 21, 2014, 8:42 am   I had been a Pantene fan for awhile, but the last few months, my hair has become dry and damaged.
 Yes, I color my hair but I have never had it over processed or damaged from coloring it and no, I do not color it myself!
 Yesterday, I cut 3 inches off of my hair, thinking maybe it had just become too long, but the result was the same, dry and clearly damaged.
 I purchased a deep conditioner by Matrix and what a difference.
 As of today, no more Pantene.
 Reply Link      JEN October 22, 2018, 8:49 pm   CAN YOU READ?
 THE PROFESSIONALS ACTUALLY ANSWERED THE ORIGINAL QUESTION .
 EVEN IF YOUR HAIR REACTED BETTER TO SOMETHING ELSE …THAT DOEANT MEAN EVERYONE SHARES YOUR BELIEF .
 Reply Link        Leon February 4, 2014, 9:05 pm   I have a scalp condition where it flakes really badly.
 I’m a 23 year old male and I’ve been using Clear shampoo and Head and Shoulders for god knows how long.
 It works great for 2 hours then the flaking would come back with a vengeance.
 I tried Pantene Pro-V anti dandruff a couple of days ago and I could not believe the results.
 My hair wasn’t oily, my scalp didn’t flake, it basically did what other shampoos didn’t which was restoring my scalp’s moisture.
 It feels great.
 I’ve used salon brands before and the only one that works better than Pantene would be Redken in my personal opinion.
 I rate Pantene Pro-V anti dandruff a 7.5/10   Reply Link      K September 5, 2015, 10:11 pm   Try Nixon scalp treatment for psoriasis and dandruff.
 There is a three step system.
 Shampoo, conditioner, and something of a serum.
 Works wonders on my head and a lot of my clients.
 It has a cool tingly feeling from the mint   Reply Link        Dara Johnson February 13, 2014, 12:10 pm   I am an African-American woman with relaxed hair.
 In between my visits to my hairdresser who does my relaxer, and any other chemicals and cuts, I would visit Dominican salons (because they are cheap) for wash/set/blow dry.
 Once, I invested in some pretty expensive styling tools (flat iron, blow dryer, etc.)
 and one day when I could get to the salon, I decided to do my own hair.
 I had the Pantene Intense Moisturizing Shampoo for women of color.
 I loved the way my hair came out – understand that I used a Frederic Fekkai Shea hydrating conditioner mask, a leave-in conditioner by Motions and used Chi Silk Infusion pre blow-dry.
 Anyway, when I ran out of the Pantene Shampoo, I used another shampoo (Motions) I had in my closet.
 I felt the difference and didn’t like it.
 I then spent a lot of money for an expensive Frederic Fekkai shampoo.
 It was nice, but I noticed my hair still wasn’t the way it was when I first starting using Pantene.
 So, I went back to using the Pantene Shampoo just to see if there was going to be any difference.
 Keep in mind, all the other products I mentioned I was using (FF mask, Chi, etc.)
 remained the same; I didn’t swap those out.
 It was just the shampoo I was experimenting with.
 Needless to say, I couldn’t believe the difference Pantene did for my hair.
 I’m amazed at the difference versus an expensive Shampoo such as Frederic Fekkai’s.
 The ONLY con is that when I would come out the tangles, I still had some sort of residue on my hair, and I’ve always been good at rinsing the conditioner out thoroughly.
 I think I will finish up the FF shampoo which does do a good job of getting rid of build-up on the scalp and hair, for the first rinse, then follow up the last two shampoo’s with Pantene.
 I’m a fan for life.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller February 13, 2014, 12:27 pm   Dara: Thanks for sharing your honest experience!
 Reply Link      vikki August 7, 2014, 10:51 pm   pantene is horrible I had lots of hair and I might say too much and I used pantene now I am bald your product is horrible and you will have to answer to God   Reply Link      Vikki February 21, 2015, 9:13 pm   Oh, for pete’s sake!
 Reply Link      Cath July 12, 2017, 3:40 pm   Yes Vikki, my hair has been falling out and has gone quite thin since using Pantene conditioner… I went back to using Aussie tonight and my hair hasn’t fallen out !
 So I won’t be using Pantene again.
 Reply Link            Helena May 4, 2014, 5:46 am   Interesting how a comment from someone who had a bad experience with Pantene is met with a snarky ‘Thanks for the story based on your single, personal experience’, but a story about from someone who likes Pantene gets a ‘Thanks for sharing your honest experience!’ No, you don’t sound biased at all… The last couple of days I’ve been searching around trying to see if other people had been experiencing the same hair loss, very dry brittle hair results of using Pantene that I’ve been having because I wasn’t sure if it was just me.
 Reading this article, I’m sorry, I don’t come away feeling very reassured, tbh you don’t come off as sounding unbiased or rational, you sound very much like someone who benefits from promoting Pantene and discrediting stylists in quite petty tones.
 Essentially you say that because they aren’t ~educated enough~ to understand the science of shampoo formulas or the marketing data of P&amp;G, and even more laughable, because salon studios don’t have the kind of money a multinational corporation has (‘P&amp;G, makers of Pantene, have a HUGE research budget.
 Certainly larger than any salon company’) – this somehow discredits what these people who work with clients *every day* hearing individual stories from clients *every day* about what Pantene does to their hair.
 You spend the article running stylists down as morons just repeating things they’ve been told to say, while holding up a multinational corporation as trustworthy and obviously having the customers’ best interests at heart rather than *their own*.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller February 22, 2015, 8:05 am   Helena: Sometimes we do get carried away on this topic and for that I do apologize.
 But our snarky comments are meant to be for the people who say things like “Pantene is the worst product ever and you should never buy it.” These people are projecting their negative experience onto others which is VERY biased.
 We praise people who us their honest opinion of the product without judging if it’s good or bad for others.
 Reply Link      Rudy November 7, 2015, 8:25 pm   Ironic, no.
 We won’t judge people..yadiyadiya, but admit it you do.
 After reading all your comments up above, I can’t seem to disagree with the fact that even you are biased.
 Maybe if you were to know more about OTHER brands too and their processes, you might have a more open mind.
 Reply Link      Heather January 8, 2016, 11:17 pm   Dear, Dear Randy.
 You, being an intelligent lad and of sound mind, must be aware that no two individuals are completely the same.
 One product can behave differently when applied to seperate individuals.
 I personally enjoy using Pantene products every once in a while…when in a bind.
 (I am a huge fan of Redken products- perhaps this makes me an enemy?)
 Although it (Pantene) has never effected my hair in a negative manor, I also really can not speak on the subject of long term use.
 Perhaps…for some individuals, this product really did effect them in a negative way.
 Why be so “Nippy”?
 Simply because it has not happened to us (me or you) does not mean it can not happen… Nor does that make other’s concerns irrelivent.
 Why not ask more questions BEFORE growing fangs?
 It is only another’s opinion.
 Nothing is personal.
 You must know this???
 No harm intended!!
 !-   Reply Link      Kaycee and rachel July 11, 2017, 7:37 pm   I found that pantene is so good for your hair it made my hair grow long and curly i like your campuny   Reply Link      Raquel March 30, 2020, 12:42 am   I have used Paul Mitchell awapuhi wild ginger love the smell,ive used joico, biolage , redken only salon brands for years Paul Michell skinny serum , tech Italy massuse leave in , snap eat list goes on of salon brands then I use a spinning air brush, tonight I decided to use husbands Pantene just for an experiment and different scent.
 I love the Pantene left my hair do fresh smelling light and bouncy no frizz my layers perked up and behaved so well all full and fell in place with so much body, My Paul Mitchell awapuhi wild ginger 32iz is gonna sit on the shelf.
 I m so pleased with Pantene I’m not even going to have to use the spinning air brush my hair looks so nice wish I could post a picture here   Reply Link        Donna October 4, 2016, 7:26 pm   I have used Pantene 2 in 1 shampoo for years as well as the flexible hairspray.
 When the hairspray was discontinued I becan using the new version.
 MY hair immediately began falling out.
 When I read the ingredients I discovered it contained polyurethane which I believe is the problem.
 I wont be using any of their products again.
 Reply Link      Anjoyla February 3, 2017, 10:32 am   Helene: I had that problem with Tresse Me smooth.
 Sometimes it is the type of shampoo meaning you get a protein shampoo.
 Too much protein causes the hair to come out or thin.
 Sometimes it is too harsh.
 I think if you look at the products ingredients a great deal of time Shampoo’s that say smooth have ingredients like almond oil or proteins soy for instance too much can cause that.
 It is like when you over condition your hair it can break or sometimes fall out.
 It is a balance.
 You may need to do a baking soda balance out the ph of the scalp.
 Reply Link        Dana August 15, 2014, 12:40 am   From what i understand is that panthenol penetrates into the cortex of the hair ,and also seals the cuticle and makes your hair shiny .
 what i think can end up happening over time is your hair becomes overfilled with the b-5 and expands which can create frizzy unruly hair .
 its the same thing that happens with some proteins .
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller August 15, 2014, 6:26 am   Panthenol can penetrate and help strengthen from within the cortex.
 I’ve never seen any data to suggest that it smooths the cuticle.
 I’ve also never heard of “overfilling” with protein causing hair to become frizzier.
 That’s not how these ingredients work.
 Reply Link        Pankaj Bessan August 23, 2014, 11:01 pm   fuck pantene   Reply Link      Randy Schueller August 24, 2014, 11:24 am   Thanks for voicing your opinion so eloquently, Pankaj.
 I’m sure our readers really appreciate your input.
 Reply Link      United States of America July 24, 2015, 7:16 pm   We all agree, F*&amp;K PANTENE   Reply Link      Randy Schueller July 25, 2015, 2:57 pm   “We all agree?” Then how do you account for the fact that Pantene is one of the best selling shampoo/conditioners in the US?
 Thanks for taking the time to leave such a constructive comment, you made your point really well.
 Reply Link      Kayla September 5, 2015, 10:12 pm   Simple its cheap and well marketed.
 Link            shellie October 7, 2014, 1:36 am   Lol   Reply Link        Elle August 26, 2014, 3:13 pm   I have hair (past my shoulder blades) that tangles really easily.
 I’ve just about given up on any kind of solution.
 My stylist said he’s only seen hair like it on one other person.
 If I wear a collar – the hair at my neckline becomes a mass of tangles.
 When I sleep, I wake with a mass of tangles all over!
 I twist my hair up and clip it to the top of my head at night, but it’s not a perfect fix.
 During the day the back and sides tangle…I’m breaking hair off every time I have to comb the tangles out!
 It’s scary!
 I have long hair and do not look good in short hair!
 I do get blond highlights, but even the dark natural color at my neck tangles.
 My stylist hasn’t suggested anything that works and I’m hoping you might have some suggestions.
 (I’ve tried serums, conditioning, etc.)
 This is definitely a strange head of hair!
 Thank you for any help you may provide.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller August 26, 2014, 4:33 pm   There is a condition called “Glass Hair Syndrome” (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11407534).
 There’s not much you can do except keep experimenting with different products that provide hair with a lot of lubricity to help with the tangling.
 Silicones are typically good for this.
 You might also try the Living Proof products which are based on a Teflon like compound that’s supposed to be pretty good as well.
 Good luck!
 Reply Link      jennifer November 12, 2014, 11:26 pm   I have crazyyyy long, thick, naturally curly hair.
 I would always comb it out b4 i showered (using shampoo and conditioner) yet I would still break/lose tons of hair when i brushed it afterwards.
 I realized that I needed a spray leave in conditioner.
 After trying about 8 different ones i finally found one that worked!
 I was hesitant to buy it bc it was $36 per big bottle…but it was fully worth it.
 “Its a 10” is hands down the best!
 Reply Link      Mel Noel July 17, 2015, 10:35 pm   Instead of twisting your hair up and into a clip at night, try separating it into two parts with one on each side of your head and braiding them.
 My daughter has the same trouble with her hair.
 She would get crazy rat nest head every night.
 I happened to have to use a new lady at my salon one day and she suggested this.
 It is amazing the difference it has made for her.
 No more painful brush outs in the morning.
 Reply Link      Pye February 27, 2016, 7:50 am   This is ok for some people, but terrible terrible advice for others.
 There are a lot of people who can’t braid their hair because it will break all up and down the shaft of the hair, leaving you with a raggedy, uneven head of hair.
 I’ve tried everything.
 Loose, loosely scrunchied on top of the head, braided, doesn’t matter.
 My hair tangles or breaks or (most often) tangles AND breaks.
 Braiding it just makes it worse.
 Reply Link      Arlene November 27, 2017, 1:07 am   Try a silk or satin pillowcase.
 I have extra long, thick, and naturally curly hair.
 I flip my hair up so that the underside is on my pillow when I lay down and I’m not laying on my hair.
 It helps keep my hair from tangling and getting crazy frizzy while I sleep.
 Also, my curls look good in the morning so I only need a quick touch-up to smooth any stray hairs or tame a tiny bit of frizz here and there.
 They’re good for your skin, too.
 You won’t get pillow lines on your face.
 Reply Link        Happy July 26, 2015, 11:05 am   I have this problem to an extent, especially at night.
 Buy pure essential lavender oil.
 Use a few drops at night and brush your hair 100strokes.
 You will be amazed I promise.
 Reply Link      Pye February 27, 2016, 7:46 am   Yeah, I guarantee you, if you start brushing your hair 100 strokes every night, you will be amazed at the results!
 Sure, if by “amazed” you mean “appalled”.
 This is the single most damaging thing that was ever done to my hair.
 Add up all the bad perms I ever had, and they are nothing compared to 15 years of brushing my hair 100 strokes.
 Why would ANYONE think rubbing and abrading your hair over and over and over again is “good” for it?
 Get a hair pick.
 Throw the brushes away.
 Reply Link          Courtney September 2, 2014, 3:56 am   I have recently started using Pantene and I must say… I absolutely detest this product!
 My hair has started falling out by the handful.
 As if that is not bad enough, mid day it looks as if I have not washed my hair in weeks do to the wax build up on my hair.
 If you was your hair with Pantene shampoo and conditioner while in the bath tub, I encourage you to look at the wax that is floating on the top of the water after the suds settle.
 Needless to say, I will not be continuing the use of Pantene!
 Reply Link      Cath July 12, 2017, 3:47 pm   Same here, handfuls of fall out when using the Pantene conditioner… I believe someone warned about this Pantene a few years ago, I’d forgotten and bought some thinking it would be good .
 My hair has gone thin so I won’t be using it again.
 Reply Link        Margaret October 13, 2014, 1:40 pm   I used to use Pantene for years.
 My hair is bleached and it looked nice and would grow well with Pantene.
 Then I heard it was bad and started using expensive sulphate free salon products.
 I have spent SO much.
 Nothing feels as good as Pantene.
 My hair got worse and worse with these other products.
 You always hear Pantene is bad because there are thick waxes that make your hair look nice, yet build up.
 Well the nicer my hair looks the less I’m going to heat style it into looking nice.
 So that is a benefit with Pantene.
 I fuss with my hair much, much less.
 Reply Link      Samantha December 2, 2018, 12:20 am   That’s exactly the same as me!
 I’ve used the expensive products and it just doesn’t compare to Pantene.
 I used to have to blow dry and straighten my hair since I live in humid Florida lol!
 Now that I use Pantene, I can just blow dry it without having to damage my hair with addition heat from the flat iron.
 A lot of people are saying they noticed their hair falling out but mine has been the complete opposite.
 Now when I shower I don’t notice any hair coming out.
 If for some reason in the upcoming months I notice a wax buildup I’ll just use a clarifying shampoo once in awhile.
 Reply Link        Sabrina January 12, 2015, 12:00 pm   I went to get my hair cut this past weekend.
 I have this one section in the back of my hair that I have been trying to grow out for over a year and its still not that long, the stylist said it could be a dry patch.
 I told her I was taking Biotin and using Argan oil and then she asked me what shampoo am I using and I told her Pantene she said “Oh let me tell you a little secret about Pantene” that she learned in the hair cutting school and about the wax it leaves on your hair.
 She even took a small section of my hair, took her scissors and scrapped down to the ends and showed me this white stuff on my hair and said it was the wax from Pantene shampoo.
 At first I was like ewww and was very convinced that I needed to change shampoo and conditioner immediately.
 Well I am glad I didn’t and found this article, it sure pays to research things out.
 I really do like the girl who cuts my hair she does a great job, its sad the school she went to is telling them what is good and what is not in the Shampoo/Conditioner world.
 I love my Pantene Repair and Protect shampoo and conditioner it does a great job on my hair.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller January 13, 2015, 6:50 am   I’m glad we could help, Sabrina!
 Reply Link      Debbie January 15, 2015, 9:18 am   I love Pantene.
 I am currently using Pantene with Argan oil, and my hair never looked nor felt better.
 Reply Link          amanda;) January 17, 2015, 6:27 pm   I have tried everything on my hair after a horrible salon experience that made my hair fall out in clumps !
 It was past my bra line very full ect the women at the salon left bleach on my hair for 4 n a half hrs despite my concerns her AND the owner kept reassuring me that it was fine .. i had a volleyball game to do to and didnt have time for a style so she did a treatment on my hair free of charge and gave me a bottle of very expensive shampoo n conditioner ” bc she had just bleached my hair” she charged me 200 dollars n i left .. she locked up n left which i thought was strange bc she said she had a client after me but i went on my way i look in the mirror when i got in my truck n seen chunks of short hair everywhere so i run my fingers through my hair and HANDFULLS WERE COMING out.
 .. anyways after cutting into an inverted bob ive tried everything ive been using clear which i LOVE for ever but today i was running late n showered at my mom’s n used her Pantene despite all of the horror stories and my hair feel GREAT better than EVER shiney , healthy looking , N softer then ever!!
 Lkvd6   Reply Link      Randy Schueller January 18, 2015, 8:50 am   Amanda: I’m glad your hair is getting better!
 Reply Link        Jessica January 23, 2015, 9:19 pm   I used pantene for many many years.
 My hair dresser said I had amazing hair and also had many people stop me randomly telling me I have the best hair.
 Then one day a sales person asked me what I used.
 i said pantene.
 They gave me the drool on his head the products were.
 Well I stopped using painter for 8 years.
 I have spent thousands of dollars on expensive shampoo to only dry and brittle my hair.
 Last week I was short on money, and decided to use it again.
 I am so happy I did, because I won’t go back to expensive salon products again.
 I’m so mad I listened to those idiots when my all along was telling me pantene.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller January 24, 2015, 7:51 am   Glad you found something you liked, Jessica!
 Reply Link        Pattyp January 28, 2015, 4:07 pm   I must have tried most shampoo and conditioners from salon to hight street over the years, always ready to try something new ” I never learn” Always come back to Pantene , which makes my hair super manageable and shiny, going to stay with this super product from now on !!!
 Reply Link      Deb February 22, 2015, 3:20 pm   I’ve been using Pantene for years.
 My hair is natural blond and I’ve grown it long.
 I actually have been stopped in the street to get compliments on my hair.
 I realize not everyone’s hair is the same but I love Pantene.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller February 22, 2015, 3:29 pm   Well spoken, Deb.
 Thanks.
 (And just so I don’t upset Helena, let me point out that if you said that Pantene was the best shampoo for EVERYONE to use, I would be correcting your bias just as I do for the negative commentators who say it’s the worst thing in the world for everyone.)
 Reply Link        Di March 25, 2015, 1:59 am   For you to say that cosmetologist a are inexperienced with formulas is not just incorrect, it is flat out defamation.
 Pantene has a huge budget for a reason!
 To mask how awful their product is.
 I’ll save you the tales of clients who have LOST hair due to Pantene products and just tell you that a former client worked for them.
 In advertising.
 He said that they knew their product was awful.
 Trying to pass off press promotion as truth is despicable.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller March 25, 2015, 7:43 am   Di: Let me ask you this: then how do you account for the fact that when we test Pantene on a blinded basis (in other words, people don’t know what the product is) most people still preferred Pantene to other products (including salon products?)
 Reply Link      Pye February 27, 2016, 8:00 am   Seriously?
 You have to even ask that?
 I’ve been using Pantene for over 30 years.
 And over the years, my hair has become increasingly brittle, falls out, its thinning, it is half the length it used to be.
 And when did this start?
 About 30 years ago.
 Yeah, that’s right – just after I switched to Pantene.
 I’ve been a Pantene booster for decades.
 I have to agree with others, it is pretty clear you are far from objective.
 I don’t know why you are so invested in a particular brand of shampoo, but the fact is that over the years Pantene has just exploded like a cancer.
 I can’t even count how many “different” products there are now.
 Every time I need a new bottle of shampoo, all the labels have changed.
 I rather doubt the actual INGREDIENTS have changed nearly so much as the label and the names.
 I give up.
 I’ve stuck with Pantene through thin and thinner.
 Its time to move on.
 The blatant boosterism on this site has really opened my eyes – to the fact that these days, Pantene is all sizzle and no meat.
 Oh, and the answer to your question, “why do people prefer it in blind tests” – that is easy.
 Because it has some immediate short-term benefits which add up over time to damage instead of help.
 That would most likely be mostly due to dimethicone and its kin, which coats the hair strands and make it look shinier and feel smoother.
 Reply Link      Zach March 24, 2016, 1:29 am   Called aging!
 Reply Link            Angie March 29, 2015, 3:15 pm   I have been using Pantene for about 20 years now.
 In between the 20 years I have spent lots of money on salon brands to keep finding myself going back to Pantene.
 I have long thick hair and except for the normal strands of hair people lose I have not lost any unusual amount of hair.
 Pantene keeps my hair feeling awesome and smelling great.
 My cousin is a hair stylist and uses Pantene herself and doesn’t agree with the bad things that other hair stylist say about Pantene.
 Yes buying the expensive shampoos and conditioners work but I honestly thing Pantene works the best.
 Because u are losing hair you can’t blame it on the shampoo.
 If u had prove it was the shampoo than why don’t u have a law suit against the company???
 Pantene is the best!
 Reply Link      Anjoyla February 3, 2017, 10:35 am   Angie: Everyone is different if the product works for you great.
 We all are unique.
 I didn’t file a law suit over Unilever when Tresse did that to my hair.
 I stopped using it an sought to find a solution.
 Reply Link        Angie April 14, 2015, 4:58 pm   I used all different kinds of patentee pro v shampoo and conditioner and after a while of using it my hair became so hard to manage and after I shampooed and conditioned it was noting but knots left in my hair when I tried to brush my hair.
 Reply Link      licensed Cosmetologist April 18, 2015, 1:53 am   As a licensed cosmetologist, who has a passion for the science of chemistry and product formulation, I must agree that Pantene is a good product.
 I work behind the chair 5 days a week, and see anywhere from 50 to 80 heads of hair a week.
 Hair, skin, and nail health is so often a reflection of one’s internal health rather then of the product they use.
 Also, remember that the wrong formula for you will never yield good results.
 The reason many people get “better” results from pro products isn’t due to a better formula.
 ..it’s my experience in knowing the type of formula you need.
 I am also trained in how to properly use each item.
 So often my clients are using the wrong products, and using them incorrectly.
 that alone will make or break your hair /skin/nails.
 So many “professional brands ” are owned by the same parent companies which own the grocery store brands.
 They are made of the same ingredients, in the same factories at the same time.
 The difference?
 Many times it’s only the packaging and fragrance.
 For instance Purology is owned by loreal.
 The loreal everpure line is almost identical to purology.
 Read the label.
 Also, knowing that many ingredients have multiple names for the same exact thing helps.
 So, when you are doing a side by side comparison of ingredients….be sure the name which is “different” is truly a different chemical.
 It very well may be the same chem, with a different designation.
 Or one which is chemically going to function the same in the formula , but may have been changed due to viscosity, fragrance, availability at time of production, color, etc.
 the professional products industry is really just a way the salon industry has tried to infuse money into the dying salon services industry.
 Don’t buy the hype!
 Reply Link      Sydney Howard April 26, 2015, 10:39 am   I’m sure there are many who have wonderful experiences with both drugstore and salon haircare.
 However, I think that to say that drugstore is just as good as salon would be false.
 There is a reason that professional hair products cost more.
 The ingredients are better.
 As someone who has used almost every brand out there, I get much better results with professional lines.
 Pantene, Garnier, and Tresseme all caused buildup in my hair.
 If you want to use pantene, I recommend using a clarifying shampoo at least once or twice a month.
 John Frieda and Clear were much better products for my hair, so I’d recommend those lines if you want to go the drugstore route.
 I think there are many pros for using professional shampoo.
 A lot of drugstore brands list water as one of their ingredients.
 The more water, the more diluted the product, and the more product you will need to use to achieve the desired result.
 This means you will end up purchasing more product.
 Depending on how quickly you go through a product, you will be spending as much as you would on a more concentrated, professional product.
 Do the math.
 Let’s say a bottle of pantene costs $5.99.
 If you go through a small bottle once two months, you’re spending at least $36 for shampoo during the year.
 It takes me six months to get through a $17 bottle of Matrix.
 That’s $34/year.
 It could potentially be cheaper to use a professional line.
 Professional products typically have better ingredients.
 I’m not saying this is always true, but a lot of the time, price point is very reflective of the quality.
 That isn’t to say that some professional products aren’t crap.
 It’s just like makeup.
 I wouldn’t recommend clinique to anyone over the age of 19.
 The same goes with some salon lines.
 Aveda, for example, has many products that aren’t very effective in my experience.
 But there are many professional products I would swear by.
 I’ve used Matrix Biolage Volumebloom with great success.
 It smells wonderful and doesn’t leave residue, and you can often get it for a great price (Check Ulta or your local hair salon for deals).
 But my favorite lines are R+Co and Oribe.
 R+Co is a relatively new line started by Howard McLaren (previous creative director of Bumble &amp; Bumble and Toni &amp; Guy), Garen, and Thom Priano.
 The products are vegan and sulfate free, and the fragrances come from the same company in France (I believe) that make the fragrances for Tom Ford.
 Those fragrances retail for around $75-200.
 You won’t find fragrance like that in any drug store brand hair product.
 Ever.
 R+Co is not the most expensive professional line.
 Shampoos are about $24 and styling products range from $20-30.
 This is a lot cheaper than brands like Kerastase or Shu Uemura.
 Oribe is another great line.
 It’s pricey.
 I won’t argue with you.
 But for someone who has colored hair (blue ombre that is difficult to maintain), I swear by their colored hair line.
 I use a tiny dime sized amount of shampoo and conditioner, so the $39 bottle of shampoo and conditioner lasts me for a long time.
 It would last about 6 months with everyday use, but I alternate with other products such as Wella, R+Co, Matrix, and Paul Mitchell so I only need to purchase it about one a year or so.
 The shampoo has ingredients that help preserve my color and protect my hair from harmful UV rays that cause fading.
 It also smells incredible, and leaves my hair soft and silky without weighing it down from residue.
 I’ve never used a bad product from Oribe.
 I’m a huge fan of their Dry Texture Spray.
 It’s expensive, but it’s the best dry shampoo and texture spray I’ve ever used.
 It absorbs oils, allows me to add exactly how much texture I want to my blowout, and smells incredble.
 Every stylist I’ve ever been to also swears by this product.
 In any case, there’s a haircare regime for every lifestyle and budget.
 I probably wouldn’t recommend Pantene to anyone, and I do think that professional products typically work better.
 They often contain better ingredients and are more concentrated.
 However, there are plenty of drugstore products that work well and cost less.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller April 27, 2015, 7:20 am   Hi Sydney.
 Thank for taking the time to comment!
 We totally agree that some people love their salon brands more than drug store brands but the idea that salon products all use better ingredients and are more concentrated is is just a myth.
 How do we know?
 Because we’ve worked on these products and tested many, many different formulas both salon and drugstore.
 Let’s just say there are good and bad products in each.
 Reply Link      Zach March 24, 2016, 1:33 am   Cost more because people will pay more if it sounds good   Reply Link      Zach March 24, 2016, 1:35 am   People pay more because they will pay more for a product from a “professional “   Reply Link        Emily July 19, 2015, 7:17 pm   I agree with Sydney, you do save a TON of money using professional products.
 The people who are using these professional products and saying they dont work are probably using them like they use Pantene, because pantene isnt as thick and concentrated as products like All Soft by Redkin for example, pantene runs out of the nozzle quick and clients will tend to fill their whole palm with shampoo and conditioner.
 If youre using just a DIME size of shampoo ONLY on your scalp and then using a DIME size of conditioner ONLY on your ends you will save a ton of money.
 Many people dont even know how to use shampoo and conditioner correctly, no one EVER told them the right way.
 Many people use conditioner on their scalp which you are NOT supposed to do.
 Your scalp produces the oils your roots need to be nourished.. Its your ends that are damaged, which is why you never want to shampoo your ends, youll be stripping what little oils your ends were holding onto.
 NEVER SHAMPOO YOUR ENDS AND NEVER CONDITION YOUR SCALP!!
 So even if you are using the pantene line, try that method of shampooing and see if it helps your frizzyness and product build up.
 Either way it will help you use less and spend less.
 Reply Link      Canitra Baskin July 23, 2015, 12:30 pm   I have been using Pantene for three to four months now.
 It leaves my scalp feeling great and my hair looking wonderful.
 My daughter on the other hand says that it dries her hair out.
 I believe it has to do with the texture of ones hair and the different types of Pantene.
 You have to select the Pantene type that is for your hair.
 One thing I have observed in selecting the type for your hair is that it leaves your hair healthy.
 I like it and for now it is my shampoo/conditioner of choice.
 Reply Link      laur July 27, 2015, 10:38 pm   I’ve been using Pantene for years and when my friends do things with my hair they always ask if I use special product in my hair to make it soft, so I tell them it’s just my basic shampoo and conditioner.
 I started using a little in the top of my head so that it doesn’t frizz as much and I feel as if it clogs the pores on my scalp.
 so if you use it, don’t put it on the top of ur head   Reply Link      Ashley August 6, 2015, 7:04 am   I’ve been using pantene for like 3 years now.
 i had my first bow out 5 months ago and when i looked in the mirror closely to EACH strain of hair i had SO many split ends.
 I had about every split end listed to be exact.
 So i did a bit of research and it could be the heat i use on my hair OR it can be that the pantene shampoo and conditioner is too strong for my hair and causing crazy split ends.
 Please reply quick i’m scared that my hair might damage all the way and i might loose it all.
 Reply Link      Tyler August 17, 2015, 9:34 pm   I would just like to say if pantene is sooo amazing and works so well them why isn’t it sold in a salon when the company could make way more money if they sold it in a salon.
 I’m a hairdresser and every time someone uses pantene I can feel a build up on there hair and there hair is in terrible shape.
 But everyone is different so if you like pantene then fine.
 But ask yourself if this product line is suppose to be so good why isn’t it in a salon???
 Reply Link      Pye February 27, 2016, 8:17 am   Wow.
 Because they make craploads more money selling it to MILLIONS of people as opposed to maybe a tenth of that market if sold through “salons”.
 You’re a “hairdresser”.
 Good for you.
 That means exactly nothing.
 Some of the worst advice I have ever had for my hair – no, ALL of the worsts advice – came from “hairdressers” and people with degrees in “cosmetology”.
 Recently I read a posting somewhere from a cosmetologist who was boasting about the classes she took in “college”.
 That’s right.
 She claimed she had taken a class in “Electricity”.
 I bet that was right after her class in “Fire”.
 Remember, when you shell out the big bucks for overhyped salon formalas to pour on your head and then wash down the drain, all you’ve done is finance some executive’s trip to Bimini with his mistress.
 No shampoo works for EVERYBODY.
 I’m pretty sure Pantene isn’t working for me now, and I begin to doubt that it ever did.
 Reply Link        Krista August 24, 2015, 12:45 pm   The ingredient dimethicone is reason alone to avoid it.
 That’s what creates the fake coating on the hair.
 It’s a silicone that coats the hair which causes hair to feel smoother at first but over time it actually damages hair.
 The coating it leaves on hair makes a barrier which blocks natur moisture from getting into hair causing hair to dry out which leads to breakage.
 Dimethicone also is not water soluable so it’s difficult to rinse out which leads to build up.
 Pantene is also full of sulfate which is harsh and drying on hair.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller August 24, 2015, 2:33 pm   Krista: Dimethicone does coat the hair and make it feel softer.
 I’m not aware of any evidence that it causes damage to hair or that it blocks “natural moisture.” Do you have anything to back up your statement or is this just your personal belief?
 Reply Link      Krista August 24, 2015, 4:23 pm   I’m a cosmetologist and have taken many beauty classes.
 The problem with dimethicone is it’s water insoluble so it’s very difficult to wash out.
 It takes heavy sulfates to get dimethicone out of hair and heavy sulfates strip hair of natural moisture.
 If the product builds up in hair the buildup also traps pollutants from the environment into the hair.
 Dimethicone is just not a necessary ingredient.
 It’s added a lot of times to make the product application smoother.
 Not all silicones are bad.
 Water soluble silicones are best.
 Silicones don’t really nursing hair from the inside though.
 They just coat the outside of hair to make it appear smoother and healthier.
 It’s better to use a pure light weight oil such as argan oil to nourish hair and help with dry ends.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller August 24, 2015, 4:25 pm   Thanks for sharing your opinion.
 Reply Link            Krista August 24, 2015, 8:29 pm   My opinion is that a more natural ingredient list is best.
 There are plenty of salon professional brands that I also wouldn’t recommend.
 Rather then focusing on brand name it’s better to focus on the ingredient label.
 What I like to look for on the bottle is that it says: Color safe sulfate free paraben free phthalate free Petroleum free PEG free Synthetic fragrance free Silicone free Organic is nice as well.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller August 24, 2015, 8:56 pm   You’re certainly entitled to believe what ever you want.
 Just don’t be tricked by the claims on the label.
 Plus, there’s no evidence that proves some of the “free” claims that you like are true.
 But like I said, you’re entitled to your opinion (as long as you don’t present it as absolute fact.)
 Reply Link        Krista August 25, 2015, 1:04 am   Just like this statement from above (“While most stylists are very talented at cutting and styling hair, they’re not very talented at interpreting cosmetic formulations.”) is not absolute fact 😉   Reply Link      Randy Schueller August 25, 2015, 9:01 am   🙂   Reply Link        Kayla September 5, 2015, 10:07 pm   Don’t let anyone fool you into thinking that hairdressers don’t understand the “formulation” of products.
 We formulate every day as a part of our jobs and spend good money and time at school to learn how certain chemicals and ingredients will react in your hair.
 You really so get what you pay for.
 An easy way to solve the problem of wondering if your hairdresser is b.s.ing look at the ingredients on the bottle, put them all on a Google search so that you fully understand what they are and they big names such as polysiloxanes (silicone, a commonly used ingredient that’s terrible for your hair) don’t slip by un noticed.
 I’d you’re not sure about am ingredient research what it does to your hair.
 And remember as hairdressers it is our job to fix your boo boos, which clients often won’t want to pay for even if they can afford it.
 The best thing you can do is find some one you trust and remember they have a license   Reply Link      Pye February 27, 2016, 8:36 am   The only damage I’ve ever done to my hair is when I’ve allowed a hairdresser to touch it in any way.
 You know what *I* don’t want to pay for?
 Whatever damage someone like you has done to my hair.
 I stopped going to salons decades ago.
 It seemed to take forever for all that damaged hair to grow out.
 You don’t “learn how certain chemicals and ingredients will react in your hair”.
 You learn to parrot a few memorized sound memes that perpetuate myths about hair care.
 As for checking ingredients, I ALWAYS do.
 And hair care products on both sides of the shopping aisles use the same ingredients over and over again.
 You can find MANY products that are virtually identical.
 And half the time, even if they look like there are differences, it will turn out that they are just using different names for the same or functionally identical substances.
 You say: “Is the person you are listening to an educated licensed cosmetologist or educated chemist or is it a well spoken marketer?” I’m sorry, but there is no comparison to a chemist when we’re talking about so-called cosmetologists.
 Which leaves the “educated” licensed cosmetologist being equated to a marketer.
 Now THAT one I can get behind!
 Reply Link        Kayla September 5, 2015, 10:19 pm   I won’t knock panteen but just be aware of the ingredients that you are putting into your hair and the effects they have over time.
 Some professional products work better than others but none will work if you don’t allow them enough time and use them properly.
 Often people cut out needed steps in order to budget their products.
 If you’re using styling tools good shampoo and conditioner really isn’t enough.
 Also be careful who you are taking advice from.
 Is the person you are listening to an educated licensed cosmetologist or educated chemist or is it a well spoken marketer?
 Reply Link      Sharon October 7, 2015, 3:57 pm   This is long, and I’m sure no one will read it, but… Let me start off by saying that I have problem hair.
 Very long, very thick, often dry and frizzy, especially at the ends.
 It’s also a mixture of curly and wavy, and my split ends are usually a mess a week after I cut my hair, easily.
 I also lose a ton of hair every time I wash or brush it – but you’d never be able to tell, because there’s still so much left, always!
 (photo for reference: http://imgur.com/mYTs6iC ) So now that that’s out of the way… Because no one else I know has such unruly or thick hair… I’ve learned to cut it myself, because of the terrible experience I always have at hair stylists.
 I tried expensive ones – I’d always leave feeling worse about my hair, and bad about myself in general, after they assumed I never brush or wash it (even though I’d come in with it wet and having just been washed and combed).
 They’d try so hard to sell me their expensive shampoos, which I fell for, a few times.
 I didn’t notice anything special bout them.
 Then I went back to cost-effective stylists.
 I got the same pitch about how terrible Pantene was, on the occasions I admitted to using it.
 I’d usually flip-flop between some combination of Herbal Essences, Pantene and Garnier.
 My preference was actually pre-reformulated Herbal Essences.
 But anyway, I’m back to Pantene now.
 Again, I’ve gone my whole life never having met another person with my hair type.
 My hair is so strange, that it confounds stylists who see hundreds of people every day, and everyone I meet who has hair tips for me – well, first, they never work, and second, it comes from the same perspective stylists have – that I must pay no attention to my hair for it to be so unruly.
 For my hair type?
 Pantene has produced the best results for me.
 Are they fantastic results?
 Not necessarily, but it depends.
 My hair is still giant, crazy and unruly, but the truth is – so far, dozens and dozens of products later (shampoo, conditioner, treatments, oils, anti-frizz serums, leave-in conditioners, dry shampoos, etc) I never see any real change, other than my hair getting oily, rather than conditioned, from these products, or giving it an even weirder shape than it began with.
 I will say though, that a fresh wash with Pantene, a blowdry, and ironing out a few kinks the blowdryer couldn’t catch – I truly have that “Pantene” hair you see in the commercials – shiny, unbelievably soft, full and impressive.
 (It just doesn’t last long, so I don’t do it often, as any bit of moisture in the air, it coverts into conjointed curls and waves, with frizz for days).
 So, I keep it simple, now.
 I use giant Pantene bottles from Costco.
 Is it the best thing that’s ever happened to my hair?
 I mean, maybe.
 My whole experience with having hair in general has been lackluster, haha.
 Does Pantene make my hair fall out?
 Probably not.
 My hair just… falls out.
 We’re mammals after all.
 I lose more hair in the summer, just like my cats do!
 Lastly… Shampoo is not the only thing that affects the quality of your hair.
 I’m certain that my hair is of such strange/poor/dry quality because of my diet being poor for so long.
 And, my friends who had thick and luxurious hair, not have thinning, brittle hair after having had kids.
 So, I just wanted to throw that out there.
 Shampoo is by no means the only culprit for your hair woes.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller October 7, 2015, 4:30 pm   Hi Sharon.
 I read your comment!
 And thanks for taking the time to share your thoughts.
 Given the situation with your hair, if Pantene was as bad as so many people seem to think, then I’d expect it to make your strands fall out in clumps!
 Why doesn’t it?
 Because, as you noted, the situation is more complicated than just what shampoo/conditioner you use.
 Thanks for being a fan of the Beauty Brains!
 Reply Link      Sharon October 9, 2015, 7:32 pm   Yeah, I can understand not liking a product or being unhappy with it, but Pantene would not have been around for the entirety of my life if it made everyone’s hair fall out.
 There would’ve been an investigation in the company, and they would’ve been bankrupt long ago.
 The vitriol on this forum is astounding to me!
 I’ve never hated a product so much as some of the commenters here.
 I agree that most companies are out to make money, but that doesn’t make them inherently bad.
 They’re providing a service to someone, and getting money in exchange.
 The same thing everyone does at their jobs in order to get a paycheck.
 Again, may not be the best shampoo out there, but not everyone can spend gobs of money on the salon quality shampoos – And even so, much like myself, maybe you have a poor diet that’s causing your hair to be brittle, or maybe some other health issue.
 Maybe you’re a mother who didn’t take prenatals?
 Also, hair changes all the time.
 Age can also make hair fall out.
 Etc, etc.
 Oh, and lastly, in regards to your comments in the article about hair dressers – I think everyone is also taking that out of context.
 Hair dressers know about the chemicals and what to use to create certain results, but they’re not the ones taking the base chemicals, getting FDA approval, and testing them before placing them on the market.
 (That’s how I took it anyway.)
 Reply Link          Jenny October 20, 2015, 11:11 pm   I used Pantene shampoo and conditioner for the very first time and I must say my hair feels really soft and silky after shower.
 I have black straight hair and I never use blow drier…I just towel dry and comb it and my hair looks like I have blow dried it bec it’s so straight and very manageable.
 So anyway, after using all my Pantene shampoo and conditioner, I started using suave coconut shampoo and conditioner which isn’t the first time and I always liked it too… After a week My hair started to fall out like crazy and I just noticed today that I have itchy head full of dandruff what could have caused this?
 Reply Link      Kat November 25, 2015, 5:26 am   I know you’re not supposed to feed the trolls but…  Anecdata does not equate to real data.
 Training and education are different.
 The amount of training for hairdressing and cosmetology is significantly less than for a research chemist.
 Each person has individual needs.
 Just as some people have iron deficiencies so will some people have excess iron, and each would have different nutritional needs because of that.
 Everything is made of chemicals or elements and some sound scary if you don’t know what they do and are too belligerently ignorant to learn.
 Salon brands cater to a specific market that differs from the market that shops in supermarkets; they’re shifting the supply/demand curve if you’ve taken any economics.
 All humans have bias and we can manage if not eliminate it.
 Statements like “oh my god that thing is the worst for literally everyone because my experiences represent every human being on the planet especially since I took a class about this” are very strongly biased whereas statements like “the research and evidence I have seen support this and I would love to see the evidence you have available that is contradictory” do a much better job of managing bias.
 Naturalistic fallacies and ad hominem attacks (or shill attacks) are logically useless and often used by those with self protecting or serving agendas such as anti-vax proponents (some who directly profit but most who endanger public health).
 Arguments like “if it’s so great then why isn’t it sold in salons” fail to account for the economics that have made televisions and anti-inflammatories available at reasonable prices over the counter.
 Evaluating arguments and biases is a very good practice, but humans are often bad at critically examining their own biases and fallacies.
 Phew.
 I used Pantene for frizz and it was bad at leaving my oily scalp clean.
 Another product line of theirs might be more appropriate especially since I’ve adjusted to only shampooing every week.
 I have used many brands including lush but have noticed fairly similar performance.
 I lose a lot of hair in the shower, but I used to lose it around the house when I shampooed every day.
 Since all hair follicles go through growth and shedding phases (from my forensics class, though I’m sure a forensic scientist would remember the technical terms and subtleties better), I’m not all that concerned since that can be determined by genetics.
 As someone with finer but curly hair, I already know mine are probably strange.
 My ends have definitely been in better shape since I started conditioning closer to daily and applying henna monthly.
 I would love to see you cover henna as a dye product because of its different mechanism than conventional dye and occasionally my research has seen conflicting information.
 Also if you’ve already done a bit on cuticles, I’d love to see it.
 My understanding is that there are mechanical and chemical ways to lift or smooth the hair cuticle, and that acids will smooth and bases will lift it but products also can tamp it down to reduce friction and tangling.
 Keep at it!
 Reply Link      kandi January 14, 2016, 3:18 am   I’ve used Pantene and have no memorable experience of it.
 I am not product loyal so I try everything at least once.
 I have heard the rumour that Pantene is bad for your hair, will cause it to fall out.
 I don’t buy that but, my niece just left yesterday and the shampoo she used was Pantene.
 It left a frothy slippery coating on my tub that required some serious astringent cleaning to get off.
 I thought that was kind of grim.
 But her hair looked great!
 Reply Link      charlgirl January 20, 2016, 8:33 pm   Verdict on long term use?
 Reply Link      Beck January 22, 2016, 1:26 am   I am not saying that Pantene is the worst company and that their product is junk.
 First off, it leaves my hair soft and smelling great, which is nice.
 The only thing that is not so nice is how dry it leaves my scalp.
 I am constantly brushing my shoulders off to remove the fallen flakes out of my hair.
 Reply Link      gerri February 6, 2016, 11:39 pm   I have very long hair and it becomes very difficult to manage if it gets dry.
 Once per week, I use the Shielo intensive Hair Mask and it has not only repaired my damage hair (which use to always tangle) but has also give them a smooth silky shine.
 It appears as if there has been a coating of cream on your hair which is protective layer.
 Reply Link      Jadyn February 8, 2016, 9:10 pm   I was told by my hair stylist that is a family friend that when she was in college they did a study about pantene, but I do not know what it was about.
 I myself like pantene but I don’t know who to believe because I don’t know if I want to take that chance or not.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller February 9, 2016, 6:59 am   Let me get this straight.
 You were told about a study but you don’t know what the study was about yet you don’t want to use Pantene because you think it’s taking a chance.
 Taking a chance at what?
 Reply Link        robbi February 15, 2016, 10:47 pm   I had really bad hair breakage last year – it was from getting too many perms and running my blow drier too hot – Im in a rush sometimes!
 Now I use the Shielo Intensive Hair Mask ONLY once per week, and my hair has gotten stronger and doesnt break ever time I get a perm!
 Reply Link      soudipta February 22, 2016, 9:42 am   Only Dove ❤   Reply Link      Erin February 24, 2016, 12:05 am   I’ve been using Pantene for the past couple of years and noticed that my hair was getting frizzy and drying up.
 I’ve had many trims but never solves the problem.
 I found out my Pantene shampoo and conditioner was the problem that I was having with my hair.
 I suggest everyone not to buy the cheap Pantene shampoo and conditioner.
 And purchase a high-end product like matrix or redkin.
 These hair products works so well with my hair, you will not believe the results.
 Remember, if the product is cheap, the result will also be cheap.
 Reply Link      Sarah February 28, 2016, 11:32 am   I have very long, blonde, highlights/lowlights, hair.
 It tangles like crazy.
 Pantene conditioners are what I always find myself going back to-they work and I’m not afraid of using too much because it’s not expensive!
 My colorist isn’t a fan but tells me that if I insist on Pantene that I should wash my hair every so often with a clarifying shampoo or baking soda to get the protein/waxy coating off so that my hair doesn’t get too dried out over time.
 Is this a valid suggestion?
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller February 28, 2016, 12:04 pm   Some people feel that Pantene leaves a silicone residue on their hair.
 If that’s the case it certainly doesn’t hurt to use a clarifying shampoo every once in a while.
 Reply Link        Lydia March 1, 2016, 8:03 am   I have very thick, nearly black wavy hair.
 I go to someone who specifically cuts to curls and textures.
 My hair is very long and hasn’t been colored in over a decade.
 I’m complimented on my hair every day of my life.
 I had also heard Pantene was “bad” for my hair, after using it for most of my life.
 I tried DevaCurl, biolage and many other “-ite” free salon-grade products and even when I try for 2-4 weeks at a time, my hair feels limp and oily and must be washed more than my usual every 3-4 days.
 Then I cave and go back to Pantene and my hair feels so clean and full of body.
 My husband, who has very thin blonde hair, also prefers Pantene.
 Please note: we have no problem paying for “higher quality” shampoo and have frequent access to samples via Birchbox and Birchbox man.
 My hair only feels as good as it does using Pantene when I use Davines, however they discontinued my preferred formula.
 I use high end conditioner, oils and leave-ins but I won’t let go of Pantene.
 Reply Link      Kristen March 7, 2016, 12:47 am   I’ve been reading the comments about everyone’s experience with Pantene.
 I have to say I love using Pantene I sometimes use head and shoulders and it only worked for a little amount of time and it made my hair really oily then I tried this other brand of shampoo and conditioner and it was causing my hair break I would always find 8-10 strands of hair in my hand then I started using Pantene again and within 3 days of using it I only had 3 strands of hair I feel like my hair is stronger I can run my hand through my hair and no strands would fall out so that’s my story   Reply Link      Gracie March 8, 2016, 11:41 pm   I have been using Pantene for about 15 years now… I have thin long hair but very shinny and strong.
 I do not use conditioner in the shower because I always feel it weighs my hair down but I do use the Pantene detangler…… Works great!
 I bought my first bottle of Extreme Redkin today but honestley I’m a little scared to use it and I’m not sure why I even purchased it if I love my Pantene……,My husband always tells me ” what’s the enemy of better?” ….. Worse…… Again I’m going to try it just because I’m curious but Pantene has been good to me for a very long time.
 Many times I’ve been asked what do I use in my hair because it’s so shinny dark brown..I will say there are some days that my hair is more manageable and fuller but I figure that’s called a good hair day….. We all have the good and the bad…neatless to say I’ve never blamed it on my shampoo.
 Again excited to try something new but not really sure why…….
 Again I do love my Pantene!
 Reply Link      Cathy March 12, 2016, 12:41 am   I think it depends on what type of hair you have.
 I’m Asian and have black/dark-brown hair that is very thick and unfortunately gets oily very easily.
 I don’t need a shampoo that will make my hair even shinier.
 When I use Pantene – it does just that.
 My hair gets greasy and oily very quickly after shampooing and/or conditioning with Pantene, whereas I don’t have that problem with other shampoos.
 Maybe for dry hair, Pantene is good.
 But for oily hair… it makes the problem much worse.
 Also – please don’t believe that just because a corporation is big that it makes products that are good for you.
 They just care about making products people will buy.
 ie: Coca-Cola is a huge corporation.
 The stuff tastes delicious.
 Doesn’t mean it’s good for you…   Reply Link      Cindy March 12, 2016, 6:50 pm   Hi!
 I used to use every other shampoo, lets just say, my hair was frizzy,ugly,old,and split.
 I switched to pantene, and every single time after i use it, my friends ask me what kind of shampoo i use.
 It’s smells so good, and PLUS my hair is in good condition now!
 Don’t listen to the rumors.
 Reply Link      Barb March 27, 2016, 7:25 am   People don’t realize that Pantene started as a salon product.
 I started using it about 30 years ago and first bought it from a salon.
 I was so happy when it started to be sold in stores.
 If it was so bad the product wouldn’t still be selling.
 I’ve used it all these years with a few forays out to other salon products, I’ve used Wen, Redkin, Paul Mitchel, etc., and I come back to Pantene.
 The reason salons try to push their product is that they make a large percentage on those sales.
 Reply Link      Jane October 5, 2017, 8:14 pm   @Barb – I do remember when Pantene was a salon product.
 It began showing up on drugstore shelves in the 80’s as a very expensive salon brand in distinctive highend bottles (think at about $10/bottle which was an un-heard of high end price for a drugstore offering in those days).
 I bought it and was blown away.
 It was amazing product that totally transformed my hair.
 It was super rich and concentrated and you only used a dab.
 I had never experienced such a unique product and the results were insane.
 I would only use it for going out because it was so ‘special’ I didn’t want to use it all up, but it would completely transform my hair with huge body and shine.
 It was like a whole different head of hair!
 Then after a few years of buying my special Pantene treat every year and raving about it to friends, they disappeared from the shelves in the little specialty hair section and I saw them become this massive presence on the mass produced product shelves.
 I tried some of the ‘new’ Pantene and it just wasn’t the same.
 I guess they got bought out and reformulated and the mass marketing began and they ended up as being the biggest selling drug store product we see today.
 But I used the original pantene products and they were truly AMAZING.
 What they ended up as now is a basic fairly decent product for the masses, and the most amazing thing about them are the ads.
 I have mini travel size bottles of Pantene that I sometimes use to change things up (Smooth and Sleek), or toss in a bag for an overnight, but have never had good results in using any of the ‘new’ Pantene products on a daily basis.
 My go to products are Matrix Biolage Color System and Kevin Murphy Moisture Wash and Angel Rinse primarily as my shampoo and conditioning and these have never disappointed.
 Reply Link        Tamara letson March 28, 2016, 5:51 pm   I went from using a regular cheaper shampoo and conditioner to using Pantene and after only a few months my hair was falling out by the handful.
 I lost more then half my hair before I switch back to a less expensive brand and its been about 3 months and finally my hair has slowed down and is getting fuller again.
 Also before all that I got my hair colored as a gift for my Birthday and as soon as the product was on my hair for about 2 min my head felt like my head was on fire  Thank goodness it wasn’t on for long and didn’t do to much damage.
 It it has taken a few treatment’s to get it back to as healthy as it was prior to using Pantene.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller March 28, 2016, 5:53 pm   Did you get your hair colored before you started using Pantene?
 If so, that could have been the cause of your hair loss.
 Reply Link        Serena March 31, 2016, 8:33 am   I am baffled by the ignorance of this article.
 Just because you compare to other salon products that have these toxic chemicals does NOT make it ok!
 No offense but you do not know what you are talking about.
 No plastics found in Pantene?
 Silicone is almost like a plastic creating shine but depleting the hair of moisture.
 Quaternium18 releases formaldehyde!
 There are no regulations in the beauty industry.
 Just because it’s on the shelf does not make it safe.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller March 31, 2016, 9:09 am   Hi Serena.
 We’d be happy to revise our article if you can point to a single reliable scientific source for the statements that you made:  – Silicone depletes moisture from hair.
 (Actually silicone conditions hair and fights the effects of moisture loss.)
 – Quaternium 18 releases formaldehyde (I believe you’re thinking of Quaternium 15 which is a COMPLETELY different chemical).
 – There are no regulations in the beauty industry.
 (Actually there are dozens of regulations for beauty products.
 Read this article if you want to learn more: https://thebeautybrains.com/2014/02/are-cosmetics-unregulated-the-beauty-brains-show-episode-16/ Before you’re baffled by our ignorance you might want to take some time to educate yourself.
 Reply Link        Jami April 9, 2016, 9:16 am   I combined coupons with a sale on Pantene and bought a bunch of bottles to last my family a long while.
 About nine months ago I started getting itchy patches on my scalp that would scab up.
 Six months ago I noticed that my brush was very full of hair after brushing.
 After my husband commented on how thin my hair looked I started taking vitamins, thinking that was the cause of my hair issues.
 No change.
 I finally thought I’d try switching shampoos.
 That was a few months ago and my itchy scalp is gone and the hair loss stopped almost immediately after switching shampoos.
 I’ve shared my story with friends and family who shared they’d had the same experience.
 I’ll never use it again.
 Reply Link      Rebeccah April 16, 2016, 12:46 am   Count me another satisfied user of Pantene conditioner, since the 1980s.
 I’m still looking for my perfect shampoo.
 I only wash my hair a couple of times a week and prefer a clarifying shampoo applied mostly to the scalp, followed by whatever scalp treatment I am using, followed by whatever the current “sleek” Pantene conditioner formulation is, applied mostly to the roots.
 I *like* having dimethicone in the conditioner – I determined a long time ago, when I was comparing conditioners, that that was what made the difference between the ones I liked and the ones I didn’t.
 The ones that “hydrate” or “add body” just leave my hair feeling dirty and gunky.
 The silicones leave my hair slippery and shiny and easy to comb.
 I don’t have any trouble washing them out the next time I shampoo.
 Reply Link      Louise April 30, 2016, 6:34 am   I seem to always go back to using Pantene, even after using a salon products.
 I spent a year going organic using Arbonne shampoo and conditioner but my hair didn’t benefit from it after 3month, but I continued using until it was finished.
 The more I looked at organic products I became to realize just because it comes from the earth, not man made it doesn’t mean it is good for you.
 Reply Link      ALAINA USSIN May 6, 2016, 5:58 pm   Well, I am a stylist and I believe in people having healthy hair not just to sale products.
 But 9 out of 10 of my clients with wavy or curly hair that used Pantene at home, hair has broken off in several places or is very dry.
 I never used Pantene but most of the time when I noticed the problems in my clients hair and ask them what they are using, it’s often Pantene.
 I had a young Indian girl come in the beginning of the summer with a head full of hair, just beautiful.
 Her hair was gorgeous so I didn’t ask what she was using because whatever it was it was working.
 But, by the end of the summer, she came back for another trim and her hair was falling out by the hand full.
 I asked her what she was using and it was Pantene.
 She is just one out of many that I have noticed this problem.
 I do notice that it is fine for people with naturally straight hair.
 I would never recommend this product to anyone.
 If it works for you great.
 Not a fan and will never be.
 I don’t have to be a scientist to see the damage it does to people’s hair.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller May 7, 2016, 9:05 am   Just remember – Pantene is one of the top selling products so of course when you ask people what they’re using many will say Pantene.
 That doesn’t establish a cause and effect relationship.
 Reply Link        Ari May 25, 2016, 12:23 am   My usual shampoo is Suave because it doesn’t leave any greasy residue in my hair, but lately, I’ve grown tired of it.
 So, i switched to Pantene color revival.
 At first, I thought it was helping my hair to retain some moisture and repair it, but after a week, my hair felt so greasy and matted down, and I didn’t know what was wrong.
 I switched back to something as simple as suave, and that greasy feeling disappeared.
 I also have very thick hair, and some shampoos do mat it down, so maybe pantene works better for thin hair.
 Overall, I didn’t enjoy or see any good results from this haircare product   Reply Link      Mandy May 27, 2016, 2:31 pm   I use pantene a lot as I have a lot of thin wavy to curly hair.
 I grew it out for over a year without cutting it.
 Colored the roots, let the streaking grow put to nice ombre.
 I though used my straightener a lot before I met my current guy.
 He doesn’t care if I straighten my hair and so my incentives was diwn to straighten it.
 But my hair grew out very damaged.
 I think it’s because of dying the roots, the weather and straightening I did.
 I used mostly salon shampoos (enjoy, tedken) but did not notice much change.
 I started using patene for color more often and suave.
 Same.
 I use mostly on the ends.
 Btw, I have tried not washing my ends.
 They get greasy.
 I concentrate on the scalp for shampoo.
 I also tried sebastian clear cellophane.
 It didn’t do much.
 I finally had 6 inches cut off.
 My hair is in great condition now.
 I will keep it right past my shoulders and use pantene and my regime conditioners, orange oil, cellophane every once in awhile.
 I streaked and did my own roots before I got it cut.
 Afterwards, it looks very natural.
 I paid 20$ for the hair cut.
 I’m thinking I just need to get my hair trimmed more.
 I’m 48 and my hair isn’t the sane as when I was 18.
 However it looks pretty good now.
 Reply Link      Danielle June 20, 2016, 7:45 am   Although others may not have had the same experience, I used it for 4 weeks.
 It left a gooey type of trail on my hairline.
 I did my research &amp; talked to multiple stylist &amp; a doctor (thought it could be medical) just to find out that the shampoo &amp; conditioner was leaving wax build up in my hair.
 I switched to designline products (Walmart &amp; regis salons carry it) &amp; within a couple months the build up was completely gone (it took a lot of washing to get rid of the dandruff looking stuff from the wax).
 I have very long &amp; thick hair so I would strongly recommend steering clear of any products by pantene.
 Reply Link      Mary Ware June 21, 2016, 8:46 am   No doubt about that Pantene is a very good product but sorry to say that it didn’t works on my hair.
 I use GKhair moisturizing shampoo that is sulfate free for my dry, brittle and dull hair that are so prone to fall and break so easily.
 I use this very shampoo for the past 3 years and it did wonders on my dull hair.
 I would highly recommend it to anyone who is suffering from dry, brittle and dull hair and wants to have beautiful, healthy and shiny hair.
 🙂   Reply Link      Nena June 21, 2016, 3:33 pm   So what’s the Ph of the Pantene shampoos?
 Think this must be as important as the ingredients.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller June 21, 2016, 4:19 pm   The pH is about 6.
 It is important but it isn’t a very differentiating factor because almost all shampoos are in the range 5 to 7.
 The ingredients are really much more important.
 Reply Link        Shahrukh July 19, 2016, 12:50 pm   Sir i am a boy of 18 years Have never straighten my hairs nor i use to apply any gel or anything which damages hair But still, whenever i use to shampoo, i see around 10-20 hairs on my hand and maybe other hairs may fallen, and whenever i apply oil (Dabur almond hair oil) i use to apply it daily at night, i notice around 5-10 hairs on my hand and some hairs use to come on my shoulders So can pantene stop this hair fall?
 Or please suggest anyother shampoo that can help me Coz i am seriously worried about my hairs I have almost straight and little dry hairs and my hairstyle is, i use make my hair stand from both the sides.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller July 19, 2016, 2:15 pm   The only kind of hair fall that Pantene can stop is that caused by damage like brushing and combing.
 Reply Link        Stephanie August 27, 2016, 1:03 pm   I’m so surprised at the rude comments from some of the readers.
 Even if you disagree can’t we be amiable adults.
 Anyhow, just wanted to thank the Randy Schueller for providing help to consumers.
 I appreciate the website.
 Keep up the good work!
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller August 27, 2016, 3:00 pm   Thanks for the kind words, Stephanie.
 You have to have a thick skin in this business!
 Reply Link        Kevin August 29, 2016, 10:47 pm   IS PANTENE GOOD FOR MENS HAIR BECAUSE I WANTED TO TRY IT OUT.
 I HAVE GUY FRIENS THAT STATED THAT IT WORKS GREAT BUT THE COMMENTS ABOVE IS SCARING ME.
 EAPECIALLY ABOUT THE BALD PART.
 I CANT GO BALD, I WOULD KILL BEFORE GOING BALD.
 PLEASE BE HONEST   Reply Link      Randy Schueller August 30, 2016, 7:59 am   Yes Pantene is good for men’s hair.
 It does not cause baldness.
 Reply Link      Kezia February 25, 2017, 10:10 pm   Hi Randy.
 Im new to Pantene and just love it!
 Would you happen to have any suggestions on what to buy?
 I have curly frizzy dry hair and sometimes straighten it.
 Im looking for shampoo and conditioner, leave in conditioner, shiny serum, and long lasting scent for my hair!
 Are these the right things I should be looking for?
 Do I need all of these things?
 And what Pantene products do you suggest?
 Reply Link          Ede September 15, 2016, 10:33 pm   I’ve used Pantene for years–about 12 to be exact–and never had any real issues until it had gotten longer.
 I did try other names–L’oreal, Suave, forgotton dollar store stuff, Jason (which i loved, but was too spendy for me), Avalon (also loved)–but always came back to Pantene, which seemed to give my short hair the best softness and strength despite harsh coloring and heat styling I put it through.
 There was always a dreadful build-up on my scalp, but my hair was nice, and no flaky dandruff, so I didn’t care.
 My hair was always short, never got it much longer than to my shoulders.
 Finally, couple years ago I buzzed it all off, deciding to start over–no coloring, straightening, or blow-drying–just let it grow.
 It reaches the middle of my shoulder blades now, and Pantene is no longer working.
 My curls have become unmanagable, frizzy, and so consistently breaking I nearly cut all my hair off again due to how frustrating it had been.
 I tried all I could find of Pantene’s to manage the frizz and curls… and everything works for a couple hours, then it just frizzes back out.
 I got my hair cut today; my first time in a JC Penny, and certainly the most I’ve spent on a haircut (but was worth it).
 After asking me what shampoo I used and hearing I used Pantene, she did tell me they used plastics.
 Which is why I’m here today.
 I needed to look into it.
 I did buy a Redkin product that I’m hopeful will help tame my mane, but no shampoos or conditioners.
 She recommended Mane ‘n Tail, which I’ll give a try.
 I’d like to say, mostly, that I do think Pantene is just fine.
 It’s no longer the product for me, my hair is adamant on that.
 But I think it’s not all that bad.
 If you’re insistent that it has harmful chemicals, guarantee so does the salon stuff.
 Go to natural products if chemicals are your issue (I love coconut oil for moisture, but doesn’t always tame my frizzies).
 I would buy purely from natural stores if I could afford to.
 But, Pantene is just fine.
 I don’t think I’d have gone so long with it otherwise.
 It’s just a matter of what your hair wants and needs.
 Reply Link      anne marie October 6, 2016, 2:16 am   I used pantene for almost 20 years.. 18 of those years were amazing and I LOVED pantene.. but then they started changing their formula and my curly hair (type 3A) became super duper dry and just gross looking.. after a few years with their new formula I gave up and switched to a natural product and though my hair isn’t as soft and and beautiful as it was before they changed the formula.. it’s way better than it was.
 I REALLY miss using pantene.. it used to smell good.. now it’s way overpowering.
 Reply Link      Amanda October 19, 2016, 8:14 pm   I have baby fine hair and have been using Pantene Shampoo and Conditioner.
 My hair looks and feels thicker.
 I think my hair is addicted to Pantene.
 Reply Link      Aussie Mick October 22, 2016, 11:30 am   Now my eyes and brain hurt from an information and opinion overload… Lets just simplify the facts.
 Artificial chemicals are bad for humans, chemicals are man made poisons.
 Some chemicals can harbour bacteria that is completely alien to earth and exist only because of human interference with nature eg: diesel and petrol can harbour bacteria once the chemical stabilizers break down or evaporate.
 Any cosmetic products are capable of the same bacterial breakdown.
 Cancer is a by-product of the industrial revolution which none of us can live without because we love our carcinogen based necessities like plastic toothbrushes, plastic hormone manipulating food and beverage containers, plastic new car smell, plastic food (McPoison) that some people manage to raise children on with severe nutrient deficiencies and then let a Doctor label them ADHD so they get prescribed plastic tablets to benefit shareholders of giant chemical factories who couldn’t care less about the millions of temporarily focused health compromised anhedonia time bombs they create, shampoo YES ITS PLASTIC try putting a flame to it and see if it smells different to any other burning chemicals!
 But at the end of the day some people are fitness and health fanatics and get cancer in their twenties, some people smoke, drink heavily and are exposed to highly toxic environments at work every day of their life and the live forever.
 If you want silky hair that smells like a cupids armpit use pantene.
 If you want silky hair AND SKIN grab a $2 box of bi-carb of soda.
 Some people have allergic reactions to pantene and they have a right to their own opinion based on their experiences, most people have a high tolerance due to a toxicity immersed lifestyle of alcohol, red bulls, make-up, perfume, hair dye and plastic fake nails glued their bodies with toxic resin used in the production of fibreglass so a bit of pantene doesn’t bother them.
 I’m a Boilermaker, my job exposes me to some of the most carcinogenic materials known to man and yes; i buy pantene when its half price at Coles which seems to be every time i need shampoo… The fact is its bad bad stuff engineered to perform and marketed to bring in the dollars for shareholders.
 The world is driven by greed and lies but at the end of the day my hair and my Rottweiler smell like cupids armpits and shine like optic fibres.
 I have accepted Jesus Christ into my life as my Savior so a bit of chemical here or there will only get me by His side faster anyway.
 This world is temporary and anyone who has bothered to see what the Bible says will know these are the final days and the only thing that matters is the Salvation of your soul!
 The Old Testament predicted Jesus’ birth, life and crucifixion approximately 700 years BC.
 All time is measured to and from Jesus: BEFORE CHRIST and AFTER DEATH.
 This year is 2016 years AFTER CHRISTS DEATH.
 Which ain’t long compared to eternity… Every year people celebrate CHRIST MAS for all the wrong reasons and EASTER IS ABOUT RABBITS THAT LAY EGGS RIGHT???
 Please get your heads out of the sand people, God cares not what toxic shampoo you use or don’t use in this temporary life… Get your priorities right and you won’t care either.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller October 22, 2016, 11:39 am   Thanks for stating your beliefs about beauty products.
 Unfortunately, science says you’re wrong when you try to simplify facts and broadly state that “artificial chemicals are bad for humans.” (Most medicines are artificial chemicals, in case you hadn’t noticed.)
 This is not a forum for religious discussions so in future comments I’d appreciate if you can stay on topic.
 Thank you.
 Reply Link        Karen November 12, 2016, 7:17 am   BOTH IN PANTENE…………There are several “red flag” ingredients in shampoos: Sulfates, either sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) or sodium laureth sulfate (SLES).
 Used as a surfactant and foaming agent, sodium laurel sulfate is a strong skin irritant and produces nitrosamine, a substance linked to cancer formation.Jun 6, 2012 Shampoo: What to Look For, What to Avoid | Ecology Center ecologycenter.org/blog/shampoo-what-to-look-for-what-to-avoid/   Reply Link      Randy Schueller November 12, 2016, 8:57 am   Karen: It’s true that some find sulfates like SLS and SLES too harsh.
 (That’s because SLS tends to bind to skin protein and not rinse completely.)
 However, it’s NOT true that SLS produces nitrosamine.
 Nitrosamine can be formed in the production of some surfactants but the levels are carefully controlled so this is not an issue.
 Reply Link        sherry November 14, 2016, 12:03 am   quaternium-18 is it reallly good for hair….why dont they just release an all natural product like creme of nature   Reply Link      Brooke December 9, 2016, 6:48 pm   I use to like Pantene alot.
 It was always a staple hair wash to grab in the store until recently.
 I had been experiencing what I can only describe as chronic dandruff.
 EW!
 My scalp would build up large amounts of skin that were highly visible and peel like a bad case of dandruff.
 I was always unsure why as I wash my hair at least 3 times a week (the recommended amount) and even sometimes with anti – dandruff shampoos.
 All of this happened when I was using Pantene.
 I began to turn to the fact that maybe it was my trusty hairwash causing these problems.
 So I switched hair wash and within days my dandruff case was completely gone.
 I could wear my usual style of a part down the middle and my head no longer resembled a snow globe.
 I tried a few more different hair washes and no dandruff.
 So i switched back to Pantene just to see and YUP!
 Dandruff.
 The next morning I woke up with that same build up on my scalp.
 SO long story short, Pantene gave me chronic dandruff so I don’t recommend it unless you’re planning on having a white Christmas this year.
 🙂   Reply Link      Laura December 11, 2016, 4:23 pm   I have been using Pantene for at least fifteen years.
 I have hair to my waist that is extremely thick.
 I have always received compliments on my hair for the look, smell and feel of it.
 Over the years I have been a unpaid spokes person for Pantene, convincing friends, family &amp; neighbors to try it.
 I have been to salons where the stylists have tried to convince me on how bad it was.
 It never phased me.
 I would go home and go right back to my Pantene.
 I have had no desire to try any other product because I have been so happy with Pantene.
 Unfortunately, something has changed in the last few months.
 I’m not sure if they changed their ingredients but after showering my hair looks oily.
 The more I shower, the oilier it looks.
 It looked like I hadn’t bathed in a month.
 I actually called the store where I bought it, thinking it had been tampered with.
 I explained that I believed kids had mixed baby oil in it.
 After buying several different bottles with the same result.
 I came to the conclusion that it was in fact the Pantene that was making my hair look like this.
 Not only have I found that my hair was looking oily but also it wasn’t smelling as good.
 The fragrance also has seemed to of changed.
 To my disappointment, I had to start trying other brands.
 My 19 year old niece came to visit just a few months ago &amp; asked why I had quit using Pantene.
 I explained tell her what had happened &amp; why I had to stop.
 She was saddened and relieved at the same time because she was experiencing the same thing with her hair.
 I’m not really sure what has happened to the product but I am very disappointed.
 I have been a loyal customer for many, many years and would love to go back to using it.
 Untill then I will settle for these other brands.
 After all I want to look clean &amp; not homeless.
 Reply Link      Tanya January 10, 2017, 12:56 am   I used Pantene Pro V for one week.
 It made my hair feel and look beautiful.
 I have a naturally oily scalp and I’m sad to say that it created so much buildup on my hair.
 I had to stop and use a clarifying shampoo.
 It still did not work so I moved on to the original Head and Shoulders.
 No more buildup, my hair felt so clean, and there was no smelly scalp.
 I guess it depends on the type of hair and scalp an individual has.
 It might work wonders for others, but it just wasn’t for me.
 I loved it but it was not fit for oily scalps like mine.
 Reply Link      Helen January 30, 2017, 5:12 am   I’ve been using Pantene for 4 weeks and my hair is falling out.
 I’ve lost about a third of my hair thickness.
 This is worst stuff ever – no wonder it’s always on sale at the supermarkets.
 Reply Link      Mellisa Louise February 22, 2017, 9:28 pm   Pantene made my hair dry like straw and my hair would never grow past my shoulders without breaking off when I used that.
 Glad I switched to something with healthier ingredients, my hair has been thick, strong and healthy since I stopped using store-bought hair products.
 Reply Link      Sue Ujhelyi March 13, 2017, 11:55 am   I have used Pantene Pro V with conditioner for a couple months (given to be my someone who moved)and noticed increasing itching, tingling in my scalp and about 1/2 of my hair fell out so I tried to think of what the culpriti is and I think its the shampoo.
 I just switched back to V05 yesterday and no more tingling and only about 50 hairs fell out after washing instead of 500   Reply Link      Jennie March 23, 2017, 8:02 pm   Please help.
 My hair has always been my pride and joy.
 I figured since it is pretty damn healthy, it could deal with some bleach damage.
 And I figured the master stylist who did all the color-corrections would know how much would be too much.
 I was wrong, and now I want to burst into tears every time I look at my hair or touch it.
 I just don’t know what to do.
 my hair has also NEVER been shorter than this and it breaks and falls out.
 What should i do to regrow hair?
 Reply Link      Bonnie March 24, 2017, 1:42 pm   Why does Pantene make your hair fall out is my question because otherwise I love it!
 My hair falls out by hand full when I use it.
 Reply Link      Sue March 25, 2017, 2:31 pm   Actually I used pantene shampoo years ago and after my hair fell out I had a bald spot and had to cover it.
 Never again will i use pantene shampoo research it.
 It’s ingredients aren’t good.
 Reply Link      Rosie March 26, 2017, 3:28 pm   I thought this was a serious blog, but all I can see is that it is managed by someone who is being sponsored by Pantene.
 What a waste of my time!!
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller March 27, 2017, 7:41 am   Hi Rosie.
 I’m sorry you have the impression that we’re sponsored by Pantene.
 In reality we don’t receive any money from them.
 We’re just sharing our opinions which we try to base on scientific evidence as much as possible.
 If that’s not “serious” enough for you then I’m curious which sources of information you do find acceptable.
 Reply Link        Charlotte April 4, 2017, 10:29 pm   TBH, Pantene only works for those with frizzy hair.
 My hair is naturally shiny so for people with not as frizzy hair, I don’t recommend it.
 And yes, it makes my hair verrry itchy and greasy.
 Pantene is for the frizzy only.
 Instead of using coconut oil, this is what Pantene is for.. to make ur hair a little greasyer than usual but to calm ur hair down.
 Reply Link      Jolene April 12, 2017, 6:25 am   Well to begin with, your actual strands of hair are basically dead.
 The idea is to keep the shaft smooth and moisturised so that your hair doesn’t break.
 I have had long hair my entire life, and after having used very costly, and some not as costly, but still costly natural shampoos, conditioners and the like, I have to say that not much difference has been made to the health of my hair – and I’m talking about the strands.
 Hair health begins with what you eat and how you treat your body.
 You need a vitamin rich, balanced diet.
 From there, you need to protect your head of hair.
 On some of the natural stuff, my hair tangled terribly.
 With other options in one particular range, it was slightly better, but I still needed leave-in conditioner and hair oil to prevent knotting.
 My hair knots like crazy and splits no matter what I use.
 So I decided ‘bugger that’ and bought good old Pantene again, along with a split end serum.
 While I can feel some build on on my hair, it isn’t knotting as much and it feels smoother.
 Time will tell.
 But if I think back to decades ago when you couldn’t get all these natural and expensive products, my hair was always beautiful and in great condition.
 I do use a hot oil treatment of coconut oil, olive oil, vitamin e oil and castor oil every week or two.
 Makes a big difference no matter what shampoo and conditioner I use.
 Bottom line, eat well, and find products that work for you and protect the hair shaft.
 Oh and incidentally I was the marketer for a large, premium international brand of organic hair colour and care… so I know the spin they use 😉 and very well how their products work and feel.
 Reply Link      Christopher April 19, 2017, 7:45 am   A friend just last week texted me and asked me what I use on my hair because I have ridiculously awesome hair.
 I told him, Living Proof, but I haven’t been loyal to any one brand really and that it might be hard for him to that stuff out in the burbs.
 I remembered this post and seeing Randy say in other places that they were well formulated products and I told him to give Pantene a try, which is cheaper and easily found.
 Three days later he texted me he’s been using Pantene and can already see a difference.
 Reply Link      Chrissy April 24, 2017, 12:34 am   So there’s evidence that proctor and gamble faked claims..
 This was from the ASA, do you know who they are?
 They’re the Advertising Standards Authority.
 Ouch.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller April 24, 2017, 7:06 am   Did I miss something?
 Is there a link to a story about P&amp;G faking claims on Pantene?
 (BTW I am familiar with the ASA.
 I’ve written claims support documents for them and I’ve been through claims discussions with their experts.)
 Reply Link        Christina April 27, 2017, 8:24 pm   My personal experience with Pantene has been awful.
 I have very thick, curly hair.
 Pantene makes my hair so greasy, frizzy, damaged looking, many strands of hair fall out more than any other shampoo I used, my scalp itches so bad, and my curls turn into knots.
 If it works for you guys that wonderful but I would not recommend Pantene to anyone.
 Reply Link      MC May 3, 2017, 3:48 am   I have just found this website!
 Looks very interesting!
 I am on my final year of my Biomolecular Sciences degree.
 I have modules of Genetics, Immunology, Microbiology, Cellular Biology, etc, so even though I love Science and understand it my Chemistry knowledge is of course very limited.
 I think people need to stop being rude.
 Doing an Applied Science degree doesn’t make anyone a Chemistry expert.
 The arrogance in some of these posts is unbelievable.
 Thank you Randy for the facts and the Science!
 If people want BAD SCIENCE, the type that is postulated by hairdressers and many times the media, which often starts with “harsh chemicals”, go elsewhere then!
 This is a place for those you want factual information, let’s keep it that way, shall we?
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller May 3, 2017, 7:10 am   Thanks MC!
 Perry and I appreciate your words of support.
 GO SCIENCE!
 Reply Link        Simone May 20, 2017, 10:33 pm   I’m surprised no one has stated something that is so obvious to me.
 It doesn’t matter if you’re using $38 Alterna Caviar shampoo, which is the best shampoo you can buy for your hair or $5 Pantene, if you use the same shampoo day in and day out for too long your hair becomes immune to it.
 You need to change up your shampoos frequently.
 Hair masks and serums are the things that are going to give you long term results.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller May 24, 2017, 7:55 am   Hi Simone.
 Actually the idea that your hair becomes immune to shampoo is a myth.
 We researched this several years ago and couldn’t find any evidence of a mechanism for this.
 Reply Link        Erin V May 23, 2017, 6:19 pm   Thank GOODNESS for this website!
 I have a bachelors degree in Microbiology and am applying to doctoral programs now and I just got lectured by my hairdresser for using Pantene.
 I have been searching for someone to tell me exactly why it’s bad for my hair, because no one seems to be able to tell me exactly what “waxy chemicals” are in it.
 Keep up the good work!
 Reply Link      Katie June 21, 2017, 6:04 pm   I’ve been using Pantene for years and during that time, I have tried other brands ( mainly salon brands recommended by my stylist- big shock) and I always end up going back to Pantene .
 My hair is very long and in great condition.
 I am glad I found this website.
 My stylist got me nervous because she told me that Pantene is horrible and urged me to try something else…not happening!
 Reply Link      Emily Montanaro doles June 23, 2017, 12:56 am   Pantene did bother my scalp.so I can’t use it all the time.I switch products…   Reply Link      Renato July 6, 2017, 9:14 am   Hello Randy.
 I’ve read you saying that Pantene products are meant to be used together.
 Why is that so?
 I don’t like the sodium lauryl sulfate in their shampoos, but I do like Pantene conditioners.
 Can I use a Pantene conditioner with my sulfate-free shampoo?
 For the record, my shampoo five first ingredients are: Aqua, sodium lauroyl methyl isethionate, cocamidopropyl betaine, glycerin, Sorbeth-450 Tristearate, PEG-9 cocoate, PEG-32 distearate PEG-175 distearate, PEG-8 coco glucoside dimethicone….
 Will it work?
 Thank you.
 Reply Link      Renato July 6, 2017, 9:20 am   Sorry, I said in the comment before that you said pantene shampoos and conditioners are meant to be used together, but I think it was from Pantene’s press release they send to you.
 But I still want to know if my shampoo will work with pantene conditioner.
 Reply Link      Randy Schueller July 7, 2017, 6:39 am   Hi Renato.
 In most cases you can mix shampoos and conditioners of different brands and they will work just fine.
 Reply Link        Anna July 23, 2017, 3:10 pm   I have dry curly hair.
 I am 54 now so I color it.
 I also have a background in Cosmetology and chemical treatment.
 I loved Optimum Olive Repair but it is no longer sold in my area.
 So I tried Pantene Repair and Protect.
 I love it just as much.
 Just for the record, silicone is great for my hair.
 It works on frizz by coating the hair shaft.
 Many shops do a silicone treatment to cover frizz so I don’t see what the uproar is about.
 My hair looks great and I will never change.
 Not even for Optimum.
 I will make a suggestion though for those who get build-up.
 Just mix a teaspoon of baking soda in your shampoo once a month.
 Then shampoo again and condition.
 There ya go.
 Build up under control without going to the hair shops for expensive clarifying treatments.
 Reply Link      Roy Chefets August 21, 2017, 12:49 pm   You are so right about P&amp;G. They will not let a competitor have a better product than theirs.
 A famous dermatologist in New York told me that Oil of Olay products, also made by P&amp;G are as good as anything on the market.
 Yet people waste billions on department store brands that are no better.
 Stay away from department store cosmetic counters.
 The stuff costs pennies to make; the big expense is advertising to try to con you into thinking the products are exclusive and somehow better.
 P&amp;G sells $50 Billion worth of their products every year.
 Do you really think they are going to let a competitor have something better?
 The sales women at department store counters are on commission.
 Plus they know zero about skin, hair, color cosmetics.
 Reply Link      S.H.
 September 26, 2017, 6:21 pm   Pantene shampoo &amp; conditioner made my hair very dry and caused severe breakage but that was many years ago.
 So, Recently, I had asked my beautician to recommend a product for my (9 yr. Old) daughters hair – she recommended Pantene.
 Guess what ?
 My daughters hair experienced severe breakage, Splint ends and Dry itchy scalp.
 Now, Her once shoulder length hair can barely be gathered into pigtails (Its maybe 4-1/2 inches long).
 I understand it is a very popular product with Rave reviews BUT it Delivered ‘Horrendous’ results on this end.
 Reply Link      E April 7, 2019, 12:29 am   Initially when I started using the Pantene products, I liked the way my hair looked and felt, however over few months I have noticed my hair just like the other reviewers indicated, got thinner (weird thinness, that is just out of place,) and the scalp would start to itch severely in the areas where the hair is turning thin.
 The hair strands start to look like a stringy gelatinous mess, instead of normal hair.
 Moreover just like most of the reviewers indicated, I have never experienced the amount of hair falling out in the shower, after I started using Pantene Products.
 Reply Link        Darren October 23, 2017, 6:58 am   I spend a lot of money getting my hair coloured it’s a lift clean blond, and over the years I have spend so much money on salon brand shampoo and conditioner but legit Pantene is so much better then anything I have spend $30 on, my hair dresser has said how healthy my hair is when using it, and I don’t know why people lie and say it’s so terrible obviously it wouldn’t be one of the biggest hair care company’s of people didn’t love them   Reply Link      Lamanda November 12, 2017, 4:43 am   Stylist here.
 I was also taught in school that certain products coat the hair, Pantene being the worst of all.
 If this isn’t true, can you explain why I always have colour issues with Pantene users?
 Including my first big salon visit when I was suggested Pantene but then my hair started to break off during highlights?
 Note, I’ve bleached my hair multiple times since that event 10 years ago with no issue.
 I would really like to better inform my clients.
 Reply Link      Hope Duchaine November 19, 2017, 11:24 pm   I have to say this but Pantene and I are not friends.
 When I first tried it again about 2 years ago and I still won’t use it.
 I didn’t like the way it left my hair greasy and flat ( I used it according to instructions; maybe a little less).
 I was finally introduced to “WEN” and I have been happy ever since.
 This cleansing conditioner doesn’t suds up ( which I have found it strips the hair).
 I have also noticed that the ingredients are mostly natural.
 Reply Link      admin November 21, 2017, 11:26 am   There’s nothing natural about the WEN ingredients.
 Reply Link        vaishnavi December 4, 2017, 12:36 am   lollllllllllll… pentene shampoo is so hard shampoo it’s really very bad shampoo .when I use this shampoo my hair fall out …pentene is dryer shampoo plzzz don’t use it .it’s really very bad .
 Reply Link      Lisa December 4, 2017, 3:41 pm   I have fine thin hair that gets greasy the next day.
 I have used everything from aussie to Kevin Murphy and everything in between; honestly none really perform better than the others.
 Nothing has transformed my hair from fine and thin to luscious and thick.
 I still have to wash everyday or wear my hair up.
 But I agree with finding a formula that doesn’t make your scalp itch or leave too heavy of a fragrance.
 Pantene is too heavily fragranced for me.
 Reply Link      Susan M Beggs December 10, 2017, 11:22 am   I bought the Pantene Volume shampoo and conditioner…It obviously stripped my hair of anything i had on it…My hair is just about impossible to brush out after showering..Never again will I use this horrible product…14.00 down the drain…What a waste!!!
 Reply Link      Abby Sabatine December 20, 2017, 10:43 pm   I use mane n tail it is very good has a nice lather.has natural herbs and oils and leavea your hairs naturals oils there i use it most often..
 Reply Link      Jennifer January 13, 2018, 2:13 pm   So I was told years ago by my stylist friend to never use Pantene because it was bad for your hair.
 Before this, for YEARS I used it and loved the way it made my hair feel.
 After her suggestion I stopped using it and the past few years I’ve tried sooo many different shampoos and conditioners and NONE of them were good for my hair.
 My hair is thin and colored so it’s brittle.
 Amway, all the ones I used made my hair very tangled, flat and not soft AT ALL.
 It was starting to fall out really bad too.
 Just the other day I said screw it, I’ve had zero luck with anything else so I’m going to try Pantene again.
 Just washed it today and omg how much I’ve missed it!
 I don’t know specifics about the products, but I do know what I experienced.
 I am mad at myself for listening to someone else.
 As someone else previously said, I think it depends on the person.
 We are all not the same.
 For me, I love it!
 It’s back to super soft and pretty again.
 Reply Link      Sara February 4, 2018, 12:32 pm   Patent 2 in 1shampoo has literally made my scalp so itchy and has caused me to lose a.
 Inch of my hair.
 It is horrible   Reply Link      Perry Romanowski April 3, 2018, 9:09 am   Then you should use a different shampoo.
 Some people are allergic to ingredients that are fine for most other people.
 Reply Link        Tammy February 27, 2018, 1:08 pm   It is very true.
 I used Pantene for almost a year.
 I went to the hair salon to have my layered and I told her how dry my hair and scalp has been and my hair is falling out.
 She said it will take a very long time for my hair to regain it’s health.
 She even noticed my hair felt waxy.
 She noticed how bad my hair was BEFORE I mentioned the name of the shampoo.
 I’m really sad.
 My hair was once beautiful.
 Now I am afraid of loosing all of my hair because of the Pantene shampoo.
 I don’t be know what to do.
 Reply Link      Perry Romanowski April 3, 2018, 8:20 am   You won’t lose your hair because of Pantene.
 Some stylists tell you things like that because they want you to buy expensive salon brands.
 It’s not hard to guess that you use Pantene since it is the most popular shampoo brand.
 Reply Link        rissa February 27, 2018, 5:31 pm   I typically use lush, but not everyone is down for bar shampoos so after having guests i bought a huge bottle from sams for them to enjoy.
 I started using it and yes the shampoo smells great.
 But i noticed my hair has been falling out a lot more after using it, and i mean a lot.
 I got tested for thyroid disease, pcos, and diabetes to see if that was the cause.
 It was not, I have none of that.
 I will not be using pantene in the future and i especially will not be using it after reading the condescending comments from Randy Schueller.
 Reply Link      Eric No February 28, 2018, 3:27 pm   I’ve had Pantene on my toast for years now and it’s always been delicious.
 Reply Link      Perry Romanowski March 12, 2018, 3:21 pm   LOL – that’s not recommended.
 Reply Link        Lacey March 30, 2018, 2:22 pm   Pantene I will always be loyal to this brand short and simple..I love it!
 Reply Link      Betty April 6, 2018, 4:39 pm   When I used Pantene shampoo and conditioner my hair started to fall out.
 I’ve never commented on this post before.
 Reply Link      Perry Romanowski April 16, 2018, 9:33 am   Correlation does not equal causation.
 Reply Link        Janet May 26, 2018, 8:00 pm   I’ve never used salon brands.
 My hair was always my best feature, in my opinion.
 I’d switch between Pantene, Aussie, and Fructis shampoo – always the volumizing formulas.
 I’d use one brand for a while and then switch off to another brand for a while.
 I always had bottles of each in the bathroom.
 Over the past year, for whatever reason, I stuck with Pantene.
 After a couple of months of using only Pantene, I noticed that my scalp became very itchy all the time, to the point where I was looking for lice!
 (None, thankfully.)
 I also noticed acne-like pimples, like whiteheads, would appear here and there on my scalp.
 This was something I’d never had before.
 Most alarmingly, the hair on the crown of my head was clearly thinning significantly.
 I blamed it on my age (late 60s).
 I spoke with my hairdresser about it – she didn’t try to sell me salon product, but she didn’t ask what shampoo I was using at home, either.
 I never thought to blame the Pantene.
 Until one day it occurred to me that the only thing I’d been doing differently over the past months was exclusively using Pantene shampoo (I’ve never needed conditioner).
 So I stopped using it.
 Within a day or two my scalp no longer itched and the pimples disappeared.
 Within a couple of months, the hair on the crown of my head was obviously getting fuller, the way it used to be.
 Do I blame Pantene for my problems?
 Absolutely.
 Did I know that Pantene had a “reputation” for issues?
 Not at all.
 But I found out once I’d thrown my Pantene away.
 Was my problem an individual allergy or something that cropped up after my having used it on and off for years?
 Maybe.
 But I know I’ll never use it again, nor recommend it to anybody else.
 Reply Link      Charity August 8, 2018, 12:08 am   I’ve used cheap shampoo, expensive shampoo, and everything in between.
 I have a giant warehouse size pantene shampoo &amp; conditioner in my shower.
 I have fine hair that gets weighed down easily.
 I don’t use pantene every day.
 Once every week or two I use a clarifying shampoo, and it removes any build up others may have deposited on my hair.
 I really don’t notice much difference between salon products vs pantene.
 It’s all about rotation of products.
 If your hair is feeling brittle, or oily and coated, clarifying it with a clarifying shampoo, using a good conditioner with some coconut oil in it, brings it right back.
 Whenever I’m in the salon, the ask, what shampoo I’m using and I know the upsell is around the corner.
 I found if I just mention a brand they sell, they shut up and and tell me how my hair is in such great condition.
 Frankly, it’s all about perception, with salon vs pantene.
 A lot of salon brands are filled with silicone too.
 The very same cones hairdressers are railing against in the comments, that are in pantene.
 Any shampoo over time can deposit ingredients that build up.
 Price point and label appeal ingredients do nothing other than give you the perception it’s working better.
 Truth is, look at the first 5 ingredients, and once you reach the preservation system or fragrance, it’s all below the 1% percentage of the formulary, and is basically there for label appeal.
 There is nothing wrong with Pantene.
 It all comes down to personal preference and that’s the freedom of choice.
 Some of the comments here are so disrespectful.
 Keep up the good work guys, and know that I appreciate your blog.
 Reply Link      Shanna December 19, 2018, 1:53 pm   I forgot why I had been useing pantene for years.
 It stops me getting dandruff- strange, I don’t know why?
 Is this the same for anybody else?
 I bought some other brand (dove) the other day because it was half price and my scalp started to itch that same night after useing it.
 I will stick with pantene from now on!
 Reply Link      Charles December 28, 2018, 7:18 pm   Dear Randy.
 I appreciate this blog’s level-headed approach.
 Don’t compromise reason because there are people who just want to tear down companies like Pantene.
 I haven’t looked throughout all of the comments but it is clear that they don’t list anything specific that is damaging.
 Although I need to look through your blog to see if you have indeed performed studies of customer satisfaction using pantene vs other products.
 Reply Link      Christal Niles December 30, 2018, 12:25 pm   As a professional stylist I find this article rude.
 I was notntold this by a sales rep, it was a chemistry project we did in cosmetology school, which showed with repeated washings the Pantene Pro V specifically (never tested any other Pantene product) left a thick waxy buildup that even a perm with a PH of 8.5-9 couldn’t break through.
 You can take a blade of a pair of scissors, scrape down hair that has had repeated washings with this product and literally scrape the buildup off.
 Ensenuating that cosmetologists have 0 science background or any additional Education other than cosmetology school is ignorant and disrespectful to the entire beauty industry, not to mention giving incorrect info in this article.
 Reply Link      Perry Romanowski February 26, 2019, 4:04 pm   You’re being misinformed if you think running a pair of scissors down the hair shaft shows scraping off buildup.
 You’re actually scraping off hair cuticle.
 No rudeness is intended.
 I encourage you to educate yourself and consider that the things you learned in cosmetology school may not have been science based.
 Just something to think about.
 Reply Link        John January 20, 2019, 3:12 am   Do you know the ph range Pantene is formulated at?
 Is it important to use a shampoo that is slightly acidic (ph of 5.5) to match the acid mantle of our skin/scalp?
 Reply Link      Perry Romanowski January 21, 2019, 12:34 pm   Pantene pH is between 5 – 6.
 It’s not crucial that the pH of a shampoo be 5.5 but most of them are except baby shampoos which are formulated closer to neutral.
 Reply Link        John January 20, 2019, 3:18 am   I use minoxidil foam and the manufacturer recommends to avoid shampoos that contain silicones as they can potentially coat the scalp and prevent absorption of the minoxidil.
 I want to use Pantene as it does not contain silicones but it does have plenty of fatty alcohols.
 Can these fatty alcohols potentially prevent absorption of the minoxidil too?
 Reply Link      Perry Romanowski January 21, 2019, 12:33 pm   No, they should be a problem especially if you rinse your hair well   Reply Link        Heaven Barrett April 15, 2019, 1:20 am   Pantene works really great with my hair.
 I have supper frizzy, curly hair that gets worse when I brush it.
 When I use Pantene it makes my hair more manageable and easier to work with.
 When I use other name brand products they just never seem to do the job.
 Reply Link      Arlene A. Henry April 18, 2019, 4:32 am   I just started using Pantene a few days ago and though it makes my hair softer and smooth, my hair is falling out badly.
 This has never happened like that before to my hair.
 Thats why I started to research and found this thread.
 Whatever makes my hair softer is clearly too strong for me hair.
 Each time I comb or wash loads of my hair fall out.
 It may work well for some but not for everyone.
 We all have different hair textures.
 Pity, I wasted my money but you live and you learn.
 Reply Link      Perry Romanowski May 1, 2019, 11:47 am   We naturally lose about 100 hairs a day just through normal hair shedding.
 Reply Link        Mabel Fleming May 2, 2019, 6:25 pm   I have been using Pantene moisturizing shampoo and conditioner and have loved it but recently tried Pantene Smooth and Sleek and love it even more.
 My hair tends to become dry and brittle if I use products that strip the oils out of my hair and it can become very frizzy and unmanageable, Pantene Smooth and Sleek makes my hair…smooth and sleek!
 I love it !
 Thanks !
 Reply Link      Cheralee November 15, 2019, 3:50 pm   Hello, I’ve just recently bought Pantene but haven’t used it yet.
 I do suffer from hair loss and have researched this topic extensively as well as seen doctors and specialists.
 Trust me, you cannot ever declare that any product (just shampoo and conditioners) causes hair loss.
 Everyone is always going through a hair growth cycle and most times, it’s merely a coincidence that your hair shedding just so happened to correspond with the time that you decided to try a new shampoo.
 If Pantene or any other cheap brand caused hair loss then trust me, everyone who uses it would stop buying it instantly.
 Also, in the hair growth cycle, there is also a time when your hair stops shedding and all of a sudden starts growing again, the new hair.
 This just so happens to be the time when people then say things like ” Oh well I bought this and that product and now my hair is growing again!” Hair loss / growth is not determined by which products you use but it is determined by what’s going on inside your body.
 It’s also not necessarily to do with how healthy/unhealthy you are as I’ve seen alcoholics and drug addicts with full heads of hair and I partake in none of those.
 However, this amazing person called an endocrinologist has confirmed to me my hair loss is all to do with my body producing more or a hormone than it should be and as a result, I now know which medication I need to use and as another result my hair loss slows down whenever I take those meds.
 So, it’s a very, very big deal indeed when people claim that a certain shampoo ACTUALLY MAKES their hair fall out because 9.9 times out of 10, no it doesn’t.
 I feel that almost 90% of people out there have been using grocery store shampoo products their whole life and none of these people have hair loss.
 If your hair is falling out to an excess (scalp shows) and is not growing – go see your doctor.
 Reply Link      Souq4us.Com February 28, 2020, 2:49 pm   Wait, what’s the difference between “cleansing conditioner” and just skipping shampoo and washing your hair with a conditioner?
 Is a cleansing conditioner just like a 2-in-1?
 Reply Link      Perry Romanowski March 2, 2020, 2:19 pm   Cleansing conditioner is just a fancy name for a conditioner.
 Reply Link        Marla Rangeloff June 8, 2020, 6:32 pm   I absolutely love Pantene products, my hair always looks and feels better with Pantene then any other shampoos and conditioners   Reply Link      Johanna Athas July 19, 2020, 6:58 pm   Same here!
 I have been using Pantene since I was a teenager in the 90s.
 It has never let me down and my hair is incredibly healthy and soft.
 Every time I go to the salon for a haircut, I am complimented on how healthy my hair looks and feels.
 They are always blow away when I reveal my dirty, shameful secret (insert sarcasm here) that I only use Pantene!
 I have tried the more expensive salon brands that claim to be “the best,” but they totally destroyed my hair!
 They made my hair so dry and weight down and it looked it felt terrible!
 I have finally learned to never stray from my Pantene.
 It truly is the best, despite what some of these know-it-alls may say about it!
 Reply Link        Johanna Athas July 19, 2020, 6:55 pm   I have been using Pantene shampoo and conditioner ever since I was a teenager in the 90s.
 It is what has always worked for my hair and has never let me down.
 I’ve heard all of the horror stories from stylists and other random people who think they know it all about how damaging Pantene is for your hair.
 However, I have had nothing but a positive experience with this brand in the 25+ years I have been using it.
 My hair has never fallen out, it is not dry, weighed down, or stripped.
 It is thick, luxurious, shiny, soft, and healthy.
 Every single stylist who has ever touched my hair always comments on how healthy it is and they are blown away when I tell them that I all I use is Pantene.
 My favorite is the Classic Clean line.
 It has been my go-t0 shampoo and conditioner for many, many years.
 I have occasionally tried other brands, including the more expensive salon brands, over the years that are touted to be “the best,” but they all made my hair look and feel terrible!!!!
 They dried out my hair horribly and made it feel so weighed down and difficult to manage.
 Never again!
 I always end up going right back to my trusty Pantene.
 I have finally learned to never stray from it.
 I don’t care what anyone says about the brand.
 My hair speaks for itself.
 Reply Link      Rachelle July 27, 2020, 12:25 pm   Since I was a child I’ve had huge problems with static in my hair.
 It was to the point where my mother bought me an “anti-static” brush to try to get rid of the static.
 I wish she’d changed my shampoo instead.
 I tried so many different shampoos intended for dry hair – Garnier Fructis, Finesse, Herbal Essences, whatever.
 I still had problems with static.
 Then I hit on Pantene’s formula for dry hair – and bingo.
 NO MORE STATIC.
 They keep changing exactly what the product looks like and how it’s named, so I find that rather frustrating, but I do find it over and over again because it’s worth it.
 While I’m sure salon products could give me as good a result, the price isn’t comparable.
 Pantene is inexpensive.
 My mother recently made me doubt whether Pantene was the right solution: I do have split ends.
 But, my hair is over a foot long and I cut it about once a year.
 I wear it in a ponytail all the time.
 I only recently learned I shouldn’t be brushing my hair while it’s wet.
 So I don’t think my split ends are caused by Pantene; it’s probably the other things I’m doing that cause split ends.
 Unless proven otherwise I don’t want to give up my Pantene!
 Reply Link      Tracey Dunn August 3, 2020, 4:31 am   Please Procter &amp; Gamble.. stop testing on animals!!
 Reply Link      Cancel reply Leave a Comment  Name *    Email *    Website    Comment             Next post: Beauty Buzz: The Great Eyeliner Hunt – How Does Eyeliner Work?
