Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 CDC twenty four seven.
 Saving Lives, Protecting People                  Search        × Vaccines site  Vaccines site All CDC    Submit      For a full list of topics: A-Z Index   
 					Advanced Search
 				    
 				Advanced Search
 			                 Vaccines &amp; Immunizations            Section Navigation         CDC Home                    Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Syndicate                            What’s in Vaccines?
 Minus     Related Pages     Today’s vaccines use only the ingredients they need to be as safe and effective as possible.
 Each ingredient in a vaccine serves a specific purpose:  provide immunity (protection) keep the vaccine safe and long lasting for the production of the vaccine   Vaccine Ingredients.
 Type of Ingredient Example(s) Purpose Most common source found…     Preservatives Thimerosal (only in multi-dose vials of flu vaccine)* To prevent contamination From eating foods such as certain kinds of fish, mercury (which thimerosal contains) gets into the body   Adjuvants Aluminum salts To help boost the body’s response to the vaccine From drinking water, infant formula, or use of health products such as antacids, buffered aspirin, and antiperspirants   Stabilizers Sugars, gelatin To keep the vaccine effective after manufactured.
 From eating food such as Jell-O® and resides in body naturally   Residual cell culture materials Egg protein^ To grow enough of the virus or bacteria to make the vaccine From eating foods containing eggs   Residual inactivating ingredients Formaldehyde† To kill viruses or inactivate toxins during the manufacturing process Resides in body naturally (more in body than vaccines).
 Also found automobile exhaust, and household furnishing such as carpets and upholstery.
 Residual antibiotics Neomycin To prevent contamination by bacteria during the vaccine manufacturing process Antibiotics that people are most likely to be allergic to — like penicillin — aren’t used in vaccines    Show More * Thimerosal has a different form of mercury (ethylmercury) than the kind that causes mercury poisoning (methylmercury).
 It’s safe to use ethylmercury in vaccines because it’s processed differently in the body and it’s less likely to build up in the body — and because it’s used in tiny amounts.
 Even so, most vaccines do not have any thimerosal in them.
 Learn more about thimerosal, mercury, and vaccine safety.
 ^ Because influenza and yellow fever vaccines are both made in eggs, egg proteins are present in the final products.
 However, there are two new flu vaccines now available for people with egg allergies.
 People who have severe egg allergies should be vaccinated in a medical setting and be supervised by a health care professional who can recognize and manage severe allergic conditions.
 †Formaldehyde is diluted during the vaccine manufacturing process, but residual quantities of formaldehyde may be found in some current vaccines.
 The amount of formaldehyde present in some vaccines is so small compared to the concentration that occurs naturally in the body that it does not pose a safety concern.
 medical iconMost vaccines do not contain thimerosal or mercury.
 If you’re concerned about thimerosal or mercury in vaccines, talk with your child’s doctor.
 Learn more:  Types of vaccine ingredientsexternal icon How vaccines provide immunity Immunity Types            
 					Page last reviewed: August 5, 2019 Content source: 	National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases         homeVaccines and Immunizations Home  For Parents For Adults For Pregnant Women For Healthcare Professionals For Immunization Managers For Specific Groups of People COVID-19 Vaccination Resourcesplus icon  COVID-19 Vaccination Program Operational Guidance Long-term Care Pharmacy Partnershipsplus icon  Frequently Asked Questions     Basics and Common Questionsplus icon  Things You Need to Know about Vaccines Immunization: Why is it Important?
 Immunization: The Basics Common Questions What’s in Vaccines   Vaccines and Preventable Diseasesplus icon  Vaccines: The Basics FAQs about Vaccines and Diseases They Prevent   News and Media Resourcesplus icon  News Newsletters Events                   HAVE QUESTIONS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
 Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
 CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
 For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers.
 Cancel Continue
