  United States Government Accountability Office
  Highlights
 of 
GAO
-14-159, a report to 
congressional requesters
  November 2013
 AVIATION SECURITY
 TSA 
Should Limit Future Funding 
for Behavior 
Detection Activities
 Why GAO Did This Study
 TSA began deploying the SPOT 
program in fiscal year 2007
Šand has 

since spent about $900 million
Što 

identify persons who may pose a risk 

to aviation security through the 

observation of behavioral indicators. In 

May 2010, GAO concluded, among 

other things, that TSA deployed SPOT 

without validating 
its
 scientific basis
 and SPOT lacked performance 

measures. 
GAO 
was asked to
 update
 
its 
assessment
. This report addresses 
the extent to which (1) 
available 
evidence supports the use of 

behavioral indicators to identify 

aviation
 security threats and
 (2) 
TSA 

has the
 data necessary to assess the 

SPOT program™s 
effectiveness. 
GAO 
analyzed fiscal year 2011 and 2012 
SPOT program data
. GAO visited four 
SPOT 
airports, chosen on the basis of 

size, among other things, and 

interviewed TSA officials and a 

nonprobability sample of 25 randomly 

selected BDOs. These results are not 

generalizable, 
but provided insights.
 What GAO Recommends
 Congress should consider the absence 

of scientifically validated evidence for 

using
 behavioral indicators to identify 

threats to aviation security when 

assessing the potential benefits and 

cost in making future fu
nding decisions 

for aviation security. 
GAO 
included this 
matter because DHS did not concur 

with GAO™s 
recommendation
 that 
TSA limit future funding for 
these
 activities 
until it can provide such evidence, in 

part becau
se DHS 
disagreed with 
GAO™s analysis of
 indicators
. 
GAO 
continues to believe the report
 findings 
and recommendation are
 valid
.  What GAO Found
 Available 
evidence does not
 support whether
 behavioral
 indicators, which are 
used in the Transportation Security Administration™s (TSA) Screening of 
Passengers by Observation Techniques (SPOT) program, can be used 
to identify 

persons who may pose a risk to aviation security. GAO reviewed four m
eta
-analyses (reviews that analyze other studies and synthesize their findings) 
that 

included over 400 studies 
from
 the past 60 years and found that the human 
ability to accurately identify deceptive behavior based on behavioral indicators is 
the same as or slightly
 better 
than chance
. Further, 
the Department of Homeland 
Security™s (
DHS
) 
April 2011
 study conducted to validate SPOT™s 
behavioral 
indicators
 did
 not demonstrate
 the
ir effectiveness 
because of
 study limitations
, including 
the use of unreliable data. 
Twenty
-one of the 25 behavior detection 
officers (
BDO
) 
GAO
 interviewed
 at four airports
 said that some behavioral 
indicators are subjective. 
TSA officials 
agree, and 
said 
the
y 
are 
working to better 
define the
m. 
GAO analyzed data from fiscal years 2011
 and 2012 on the rates at 
which BDOs referred passengers for addition
al screening based on behavioral 
indicators and found 
that 
BDOs™
 referral rates
 varied significantly
 across ai
rports, 
raising questions about
 the use 
of behavioral indicators
 by BDOs
. To help ensure 
consistency, 
TSA
 officials said they deploy
ed teams nationally 
to verify 
compliance with 
SPOT 
procedures
 in August
 2013. However, these teams are 
not designed to help ensure BDOs consistently interpret SPOT indicators. 
  TSA has limited information to evaluate SPOT
™s 
effectiveness
, but
 plans to 
collect additional performance data.
 The
 April 2011
 study found that 
SPOT 
was 
mor
e likely to
 correctly identify outcomes representing a
 high
-risk passenger
Šsuch as possession of a fraudulent document
Šthan 
through a 
random selection
 process
. However
, the study results are
 inconclusi
ve because of limitations in the
 design and data collection
 and cannot be used to demonstrate the effectiveness 
of SPOT
. 
For example, 
TSA col
lected the study data unevenly. 
In December 
2009, TSA began collecting data from 24
 airports
, added 1 airport 
after 
3 months,
 and an additional 18 
airports 
more than 7
 months later 
when it determined that 
the airports were not collecting enough data to reach the study™s required sample 

size. 
Since
 aviation activity and 
passenger
 demographics are not constant 
throughout the year, this uneven data collection may have conflated the effect of 

random versus SPOT selection methods.
 Further, BDOs knew if passengers they 
screened
 were selected using the random selection protocol or SPOT 
procedures, 
a fact that
 may have introduced bias into the study. 
TSA
 completed 
a performance metrics plan in November 2012
 that
 details the performance 
measures required for TSA to determine whether 
its 
behavior detection activities 
are effective
, as 
GAO
 recommended in May 2010
. 
However,
 the plan notes that 
it will be 
3 years 
before 
TSA can begin to report on the effectiveness of its 
behavior detection activities. Until TSA can provide scientific
ally 
validated 
evidence demonstrating that behavioral indicators can be used to identify 

passengers
 who may pose a threat to aviation 
security,
 the agency 
risk
s 
funding 
activities that have not been determined to be effective
. 
This is a public version of 
a sensitive report that GAO issued in November 2013. Information that TSA 

deemed sensitive has been redacted.
 View 
GAO
-14-159. For more information, 
contact
 S
tephen M.
 Lord at (202) 512
-4379 or 
lords@gao.gov
. 
   
 
 
 Page 
i 
GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  Letter
  1 
Background
 8 Available Evidence Does Not Support Whether Behavioral 
Indicators Can Be Used to Identify Aviation Security Threats
 15
 TSA Has Limited Information to Evaluate SPOT Program 
Effectiveness but Plans to Collect Additional Performance Data
 30
 Conclusions
 47 Matter for Congressional Consideration
 47 Recommendation for Executive Action 
47 Agency and Thi
rd-Party Comments and Our Evaluation
 48 Appendix I
 Information on Recent Allegations of Passenger Profiling and 
TSA™s Actions to Address Such Allegations
 57  Appendix II
 Our Analysis of Validation Study Data on SPOT Behavioral 
Indicators
 62  Appendix III
 Objectives, Scope, and Methodology
 63  Appendix IV
 Characteristics and Referral Rates of Behavior Detection 
 Officers at 49 SPOT Airports
 75  Appendix V
 TSA™s Performance Metrics for Behavior Detection and 
 Analysis
 81  Appendix VI
 Comments from the Department of Homeland Security
 88  Appendix VII
 GAO Contac
t and Staff Acknowledgments
 93  Contents 
   
 
 
 Page 
ii GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  Tables
 Table 1: Overview of Screening of Passengers by Observation 
Techniques (SPOT) Validation Study Datasets
 14 Table 2: Variables Affecting Screening of Passengers by 
Observation Techniques (SPOT) Referral Rates and Law 
Enforcement Officer (LEO) Referral Rates at 49 Airports, 

Fiscal Years 2011 and 2012 
28 Table 3: Average Screening of Passengers by Observation 
Techniques (SPOT) Referral Rates and Law Enforcement 

Official (LEO) Referral Rates at 49 Airports, by Behavior 
Detection Officer (BDO) Characteristics and Airport, 
Fiscal Years 2011 and 2012 
76 Table 4: Transportation Security Administration™s (TSA) Proposed 
Performance Metrics, November 2012 
81 Table 5: Transportation Security Administration™s (TSA) Analysis 
of Gaps in Existing Behavior Detection and Analysis 
Perform
ance Metrics Data, November 2012 
84  Figures
 Figure 1: The Screning of Passengers by Observation Techniques 
(SPOT) Process
 10 Figure 2: TSA Expenditures on the Screening 
of Passengers by 
Observation Techniques (SPOT) Program, Fiscal Years 
2007 through 2012 
12 Figure 3: Behavior Detection Officer (BDO) Rates for 49 Screening 
of Passengers by Observation Techniques (SPOT) 

Airports, Fiscal Years 2011 and 2012 
26 Figure 4: Comparison
 Study Data Collected at 43 Airports by 
Month, December 2009 through October 2010 
32 Figure 5: Timeline of Data Monitoring Visits Conducted at 17 
Airports for the Comparison Study, September 2009 
through October 2010
 37 Figure 6: TSA™s Overall Assessment of Behavior Detection and 
Analysis (BDA) Data Collection Metrics, November 2012 41
 Figure 7: Percentage of Screening of Passengers by 
Observation 
Techniques (SPOT) Referrals Resulting in Law 
Enforcement Officer (LEO) Referrals and Arrests at 49 
Airports, Fiscal Years 2011 and 2012 
44      
 
 
 Page 
iii
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
     Abb
reviations
  
ASAP  
Aviation Security Assessment Program
 BAC  
behavior analysis capability
 BDA
  
Behavior Detection and Analysis program
 BDAD
  
Behavior Detection and Analysis Division
 BDO
  
behavior detection officer
 BEAM
  
BDO Effici
ency and Accountability Met
rics
 DHS  
Department of Homeland Security
 DOJ
  
Department of Justice
 EEO  
Equal Employment Opportunity
 FAMS
  
Federal Air Marshal Service
 FBI
  
Federal Bureau of Investigation
 FTE
  
full
-time equivalent
 JKT
  
Job Knowledge Test
 LEO
  
law enforcement officer
 OIG
  
DHS 
Office of Inspector General
 OMB
  
Office of Management and Budget
 OOI
  
Office of Inspection
 PASS  
Performance Accountability and Standards System
 PCA
  
Performance Compliance Assessment
 PC&B
  
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
 PPA  
program, project, a
ctivity
 S&T  
Science and Technology Directorate
 SPOT
  
Screening of Passengers by Observation Techniques
 TAC
  
Technical Advisory Committee
 TISS
  
Transportation Information Sharing System
 TSA
  
Transportation Security Administration
 TSO
  
transportation securi
ty officer
 TSSRA
 Transportation Security System Risk Assessment
  
This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the 
United States. The published product may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety 
without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain 
copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be 
necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately.
    
 Page 
1 
GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
 November 
8, 2013
 Congressional Requesters
 The Department of Homeland Security™s (DHS) Transportation Security 
Administration (TSA) fiscal year 2014 budget request amounts to 

approximately $7.4 billion for programs and activities to 
secure the 
nation™s transportation systems. This amount includes nearly $5 billion for 
TSA™s Aviation Security account, a portion of which is requested to 

support Screening of Passengers by Observation Techniques (SPOT) 
within the Behavior Detection and Analysis (BDA) program, which seeks 
to identify persons who may pose a risk to aviation security.
1 Through the 
SPOT program, TSA™s behavior detection officers (BDO) are to identify 
passenger behaviors indicative of stress, fear, or deception and refer 

passen
gers meeting certain criteria for additional screening of their 
persons and carry
-on baggage.
2 During this SPOT referral screening, if 
passenger
s exhibit
 additional behaviors, or if other events occur, such as 
the discovery of a suspected fraudulent docume
nt, BDOs are to refer 
these passengers to a law enforcement officer (LEO) for further 

investigatio
n, which could result in an arrest, among other outcomes
. 
In October 2003, TSA began testing its primary behavior detection 

activity, the SPOT program, and during fiscal year 2007, TSA deployed 
                                                                                                                    
 1Prior to January 2013, TSA™s behavior detection activities, including the SPOT program, 
were managed by the Behavior Detection and Analysis Division (BDAD). In January 2013, 
a TSA realignment placed the research and development functions of BDAD within the
 
Office of Security Capabilities, and placed the renamed Behavior Detection and Analysis 
Program within the Office of Security Operations. As a result of this realignment, TSA now 
refers to its behavior detection activities, including the SPOT program, as 
Behavior 

Detection and Analysis, or BDA.
 2According to SPOT standard operating procedures, passengers and traveling 
companions who are referred by BDOs must undergo a standard pat
-down, in addition to 
required passenger screening. The standard pat
-downs are generally conducted by 
transportation security officers, not BDOs.
 441 G St. N.W.
 Washington, DC 20548
   
   
 
 
 Page 
2 
GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  the program to 42 TSA
-regulated airports.
3 By fiscal year 2012, about 
3,000 BDOs were deployed to 176 of the more than 450 TSA
-regulated 
airports in the United States. From fiscal years 2011 through 2012, an 
estimated 1.3 billion people passed through checkpoints at the 176 SPOT 
airports. TSA has expended approximately $200 million annually for the 
SPOT program since fiscal year 2010, and a total of approximately $900 

million since 2007. BDOs represent one of TSA™s layers
 of security. In 
addition to BDOs, other layers of security include travel document 

checkers, who examine tickets, passports, and other forms of 

identification; transportation security officers (TSO), who are responsible 
for screening passengers and their 
carry
-on baggage at passenger 
checkpoints using X
-ray equipment, magnetometers, advanced imaging 
technology, and other devices; as well as for screening checked 
baggage; and random employee screening, among others.
4 In May 2010, we concluded on the basis of our work, among other things, 
that TSA deployed SPOT nationwide without first validating the scientific 

basis for identifying passengers who may pose a threat in an airport 
environment.
5 TSA piloted the SPOT program in 2003 and 2004 at 
several New England airports. However, the pilot was not designed to 
determine the effectiveness of using behavior detection techniques to 
enhance aviation security; rather, the pilot was focused on the operational 
                                                                                                                    
 3For the purposes of this report, the term ﬁTSA
-regulated airportﬂ refers to an airport in the 
United States operating under a TSA
-approved security program in accordance with 49 
C.F.R. p
art 1542 and at which passengers and their property are subject to TSA
-mandated screening procedures. TSA classifies its regulated airports into one of five 
security risk categories
ŠX, I, II, III, and IV
Šbased on various factors, such as the total 
number of takeoffs and landings annually and other special security considerations. 
Generally, category X airports have the largest number of passenger boardings and 
category IV airports have the least. The 176 SPOT airports
Šthat is, those airports to 
which SPOT i
s presently deployed
Šinclude category X, category I, category II, and some 
category III airports. 
 4Advanced imaging technology screens passengers for metallic and nonmetallic threats 
including weapons, explosives, and other objects concealed under layers of clothing. At 

airports participating in TSA™s Screening Partnership Program, private companies under 
contract to TSA are to perform screening functions with TSA supervision and in 
accordance with TSA standard operating procedures. See 49 U.S.C. § 44920. 
At these 

airports, private sector screeners, and not TSA employees, have responsibility for 
screening passengers and their property, including the behavior detection function.
 5GAO, 
Aviation Security: Efforts to Validate TSA™s Screening Behavior Detection 
Program 
Underway, but Opportunities Exist to Strengthen Validation and Address Operational 
Challenges
, GAO
-10-763 
(Washington, D.C.: May 20, 2010).
    
 
 
 Page 
3 
GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  feasibility of implementing the SPOT program at airports. I
n recognition of 
the need to conduct additional research, DHS™s Science and Technology 
Directorate (S&T) hired a contractor in 2007 to design and execute a 
validation study to determine whether the primary screening instrument 

used in the program
Šthe SPOT 
referral report and its associated 
indicators based on behavior or appearance factors
Šcould be used to 
correctly identify high
-risk passengers. The validation study, published in 
April 2011, found that the SPOT program identified substantially more 
ﬁhigh
-r
iskﬂ passengers
Šdefined by the study as those passengers who, 
for example, possessed fraudulent documents
Šas compared with 
passengers who had been selected by BDOs according to a random 
selection protocol.
6 However, the validation study cited certain 
metho
dological limitations, such as the potential for selection bias as a 
result of BDOs participating in the study not following the random 
selection protocols, among others. S&T concluded that the limitations 

were minimal and that the results were reasonable and reliable. In May 
2010, we recommended that S&T convene an independent panel of 
experts to comment on and evaluate the methodology of the ongoing 

validation study. In response, S&T established a Technical Advisory 
Committee (TAC) of 12 researchers and i
ssued a separate report in June 
2011 summarizing TAC members™ recommendations and opinions on the 
study results.
7 The results of the validation study and TAC™s comments 
and concerns are discussed later in this report.
 We also concluded in May 2010 that TSA
 was experiencing challenges in 
implementing the SPOT program at airports, such as not systematically 
collecting and analyzing potentially useful passenger information obtained 
by BDOs, and that the program lacked outcome
-based performance 
measures useful for assessing the program™s effectiveness.
8 As a result, 
we recommended that TSA take several actions to help assess SPOT™s 
                                                                                                                    
 6Department of Homeland Security, Science and Technology Directorate, 
SPOT Referral 
Report Validation Study Final Report, Volume I: Technical Report, Volume II: Appendices 
A through E, Volume III: Appendixes F through H, and Volume IV: Appendix I SPOT 

Standard Operating Procedures
 (Washington, D.C.: Apr. 5,
 2011).
 7HumRRO, 
SPOT Validation Study Final Results: 2011 Technical Advisory Committee 
(TAC) Review Report
, a special report prepared at the request of the Department of 
Homeland Security, Science and Technology Directorate, June 2011. 
 8Outcome
-based performance measures are used to describe the intended result of a 
program or activity.
    
 
 
 Page 
4 
GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  contribution to improving aviation security.
9 Overall, TSA has taken action 
on all of the 11 recommendations we made, and, as of 
Oct
ober
 2013, has 
implemen
ted 10
 of the recommendations. For example, among other 
things, TSA revised SPOT standard operating procedures to more clearly 
instruct BDOs and other TSA personnel regarding how and when to enter 
SPOT referral data into the Transportation Information Sharing System 
(TISS).
10 This would help enable the referral data to be shared with 
federal, state, or local law enforcement entities. Further, in November 
2012, TSA issued a plan to develop outcome
-based performance 
measures, such as the
 ability of BDOs to consistently identify SPOT 
behavioral indicators, within 3 years to assess the effectiveness of the 

SPOT program. This plan is discussed in more detail later in this report.
 You requested an updated assessment of the SPOT program™s 

effe
ctiveness. Specifically, this report addresses the following questions:
 1. To what extent does available evidence support the use of behavioral 
indicators to identify 
aviation 
security threats?
 2. To what extent does TSA have data necessary to assess the 

effecti
veness of the SPOT program in identifying threats to aviation 
security?
 In addition, we also reviewed information related to recent allegations 
 of profiling in the SPOT program. This information can be found in 
 appendix I.
 To address the first question, 
we reviewed academic and government 
research on behavior
-based deception detection, which we identified 
through a structured literature search and recommendations from experts 

in the field. We assessed the reliability of this research against 
                                                                                                                    
 9GAO
-10-763. See also GAO, 
Duplication & Cost Savings, GAO™s Action Tracker
, Homeland Security/Law Enforcement: TSA™s 
Behavior
-Based Screening (Washington, 
D.C.: April 9, 2013), accessed Apr. 17, 2013, 
http://www.gao.gov/duplication/action_tracker/1781#t=3
. 
10TISS is a law enforcement database maintained by TSA™s Federal Air Marshal Service 
(FAMS)Š
TSA™s law enforcement agency. The data entered into it may be shared with 
other federal, state, or local law enforcement agencies. FAMS officials or other law 

enforcement officials file reports related to the observation of suspicious activities and 
input this information, as well as incident reports submitted by airline employees and other 
individuals within the aviation domain, such as BDOs, into TISS. BDOs are to complete a 

TISS incident report for any situation in which a LEO was involved.
    
 
 
 Page 
5 
GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  established practices for study design, and through interviews with nine 
experts we selected based on their published peer
-reviewed research in 
this area.
11 While the results of these interviews cannot be used to 
generalize about all research on behavior detection, they
 represent a mix 
of views and subject matter expertise. We determined that the research 

was sufficiently reliable for describing the evidence that existed regarding 

the use of behavioral indicators to identify security threats. We also 
analyzed documentati
on related to the April 2011 SPOT validation study, 
including study protocols and the final reports, and assessed the study 
against established practices for evaluation design and generally 
accepted statistical principles.
12 We interviewed headquarters TSA 
and S&T officials responsible for the validation study and contractor officials. 
We obtained the data that were used by these officials to reach the 
conclusions in the validation study. To assess the soundness of the 

methodology and conclusions in the validation study, we replicated some 
of the analyses that were conducted
 by the contractor, based on the 
methodology described in the final report. Generally, we replicated the 
study™s results, and as an extra step, we extended the analyses using the 
full samp
le of SPOT referrals to increase the power to detect significant 
associations, as described in appendix II. We 
also 
analyzed data on 
BDOs™ SPOT referrals, hours worked, and characteristics, such as race 

and gender, from the SPOT program database, TISS, TSA
™s Office
 of 
Human Capital, and the National Finance Center for fiscal years 2011 
and 2012 to determine the extent to
 which SPOT referrals varied 
across 
airports
 and across BDOs with different characteristics
. To assess the 
reliability of these data, we reviewed relevant documentation, including 

DHS privacy impact assessments and a 2012 data audit of the SPOT 
database, and interviewed TSA officials about the controls in place to 
                                                                                                                    
 11GAO. 
Designing Evaluations: 2012 Revision
, GAO
-12-208G 
(Washington, D.C.: Jan. 31, 
2012). This report addresses the logic of program evaluation design, presents g
enerally 
accepted statistical principles, and describes different types of evaluations for answering 
varied questions about program performance, the process of designing evaluation studies, 
and key issues to consider toward ensuring overall study quality. This report is one of a 

series of papers whose purpose is to provide guides to various aspects of audit and 
evaluation methodology and indicate where more detailed information is available. It is 
based on GAO reports and program evaluation literature. To ensure the guide™s 

competence and usefulness, drafts were reviewed by selected GAO, federal and state 
agency evaluators, and evaluation authors and practitioners from professional consulting 
firms. This publication supersedes 
Government Operations: Designin
g Evaluations
, GAO/PEMD
-10.1.4 
(Washington, D.C.: May 1, 1991).
 12GAO
-12-208G. 
   
 
 
 Page 
6 
GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  maintain the integrity of the data.
13 We determined that the data were 
sufficien
tly reliable for us to use to standardize the referral data across 
airports based on the number of hours each BDO spent performing 
operational SPOT activities.
14 In addition, we interviewed BDA program 
managers at headquarters, and visited four airports whe
re the SPOT 
program was implemented in fiscal years 2011 and 2012, and where the 
validation study was carried out. We selected the airports based on their 
size, risk ranking, and participation in behavior detection programs.
15 As 
part of our visits, we interviewed 25 randomly selected BDOs, as well as 
BDO managers and officials from the responsible local law enforcement 
agency for each airport.
16 While the results of these visits a
nd interviews 
are not generaliz
able to all SPOT airports or BDOs, they provided
 additional BDO perspectives and helped corroborate the research and 
statistical information we gathered through other means.
 To address the second question, we analyzed documentation related to 

the April 2011 validation study, including study protocols an
d the final 
reports, and evaluated these efforts against established practices for 
designing evaluations and generally accepted statistical principles.
17 We 
also reviewed financial data from fiscal years 2007 through 2012 to 
determine the expenditures associated with the SPOT program, and 
interviewed officials in DHS™s Office of the Inspector General (OIG) who 
were working on a related audit of the SPOT pr
ogram.
18 We also 
reviewed documentation associated with program oversight, including a 
November 2012 performance metrics plan and evaluated TSA™s efforts to 
                                                                                                                    
 13As required by the E
-Government Act of 2002, Pub. L. No. 107
-347, § 208, 116 Stat. 
2899, 2921
-23, agencies that collect, maintain, or disseminate information that is in an 
identifiable form must conduct a privacy impact assessment that addresses, among other 
things, the information to be collected, why it is being collected, intended uses of the 
information, with whom it will be shared, and how it will be secured.
 14Time charged to other activities, such as SPOT training, leave, baggage screening, or 
cargo inspection activities was excluded. 
 15We used TSA™s May 2012 Current Airports Threat Assessment report, which provides 
risk rankings of airports based on those that have the highest probability of threat from 

terrorist attacks. 
 16We randomly selected BDOs from those on duty at the time of our visit. 
 17GAO
-12-208G.  18DHS, Office of Inspector General, 
Transportation Security Administration™s Screening of 
Passengers by Observation Techniques,
 OIG
-13-91 (Washington, D.C.: May 29, 2013). 
    
 
 
 Page 
7 
GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  collect and analyze data to provide oversight of BDA activities against 
criteria outlined in Office of Management and Budget guidance, federal 
government efficiency initiatives, and 
Standards for Internal Control in the 
Federal Government
.19 Finally, to demonstrate effectiveness of the BDA 
program, including SPOT, we analyzed documentation such as a retur
n-
on-investment analysis and a risk
-based allocation analysis, both from 
December 2012. We interviewed headquarters TSA and S&T officials 
responsible for the validation study and TSA field officials responsible for 
collecting study data at the four airports we visited, as well as contractor 
officials, and 8 of the 12 TAC members.
20 We interviewed BDA officials in 
the Offices of Security Capabilities and Security Operations, and TSA 
officials in the Office of Human Capital on the extent to which they collect 
and analyze data. In addition, to identify additional information about 
recent allegations of passenger profiling in the SPOT program, we 

reviewed documentation and data, 
and 
interviewed a nongeneralizable 
sample of 25 randomly selected BDOs and an additional 7 BDOs who 

contacted us directly. We also interviewed TSA headquarter
s and field 
officials, such as federal security d
irectors and BDO managers. Appendix 
III provides additional details on our objectives, scope, and methodology.
 This report is a public version of the prior sensitive 
report 
that we 
provided to you. DHS and TSA deemed some of the information in the 
report as sensitive security information, which must be protected from 

public disclosure. Therefore, this report omits 
sensitive
 informat
ion
 about 
specific SPOT behavioral indicators, the validation study findings, and the 

results of our analysis on the extent to which SPOT referrals varied 

across airports and across BDOs with different characteristics
. Although 
the information provided in this report is more limited in scope, it 

addresses the same questions as the 
sensitive
 report. Also, the overall 
methodology used for both reports is the same.
                                                                                                                     
 19Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular
-A-94, 
Memorandum For Heads of the 
Executive Departments and Establishments on Guidelines and Discount Rates for Benefit 
Cost Analysis of Federal Programs
 (Washington, D.C.: Oct. 29, 1992); GAO, 
Streamlining 
Go
vernment: Key Practices from Select Efficiency Initiatives Should Be Shared 
Governmentwide
, GAO
-11-908 
(Washington, D.C.: Sept. 30, 2011); and 
Standards for 
Internal Control in the Federal Government
, 
GAO/AIMD
-00-21.3.1
 (Washington, D.C.: 
Nov. 1, 1999). 
 20We made an effort to interview all 12 TAC members. However, 1 said she attended the 
meeting but did not participate in the assessment, 1 declined to meet with us because of 

his position with the President™s administration, and 2 did not respond after numerous 

attempts to contact them.
    
 
 
 Page 
8 
GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  We conducted this performance audit from April 2012 to 
November
 2013 
in accordance with generall
y accepted government auditing standards. 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain 
sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our 

findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe the 
evi
dence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our findings and 
conclusions based on our audit objectives. 
  
  The Aviation and Transportation Security Act established TSA as the 
federal agency with primary responsibility for securing the nation™s civil 
aviation system, which includes the screening of all passengers and 
property transported by commercial passenger aircraft.
21 At the more than 
450 TSA
-regulated airports in the United States, all passengers, their 
accessib
le property, and their checked baggage are screened prior to 
boarding an aircraft or entering the sterile area of an airport pursuant to 
statutory and regulatory requirements and TSA
-established standard 
operating procedures.
22 BDA, and more specifica
lly, t
he SPOT program, 
constitutes
 one of multiple layers of security implemented within TSA
-regulated airports.
23 According to TSA™s strategic plan and other program 
guidance for the BDA program released in December 2012, the goal of 
the agency™s behavior detection activities, including the SPOT program, is 

to identify high
-risk passengers based on behavioral indicators that 
indicate 
ﬁmal
-intent.
ﬂ 
For example, the strategic plan notes that in concert 
with other 
security 
measures, behavior detection activities ﬁmu
st be 
dedicated to finding individuals with the intent to do harm, as well as 
                                                                                                                    
 21See Pub. L. No. 107
-71, 115 Stat. 597 (2001). For purposes of this report, ﬁcommercial 
passenger aircraftﬂ refers to U.S. or foreign
-flagged air carriers operating under TSA
-approved security programs with regularly scheduled passenger operations to or from a 
U.S. airport.
 22The sterile area of an airport is that area defined in the airport security program that 
provides passengers access to boarding aircraft and to which access is generally 
controlled through the screening of persons and property. See 49 C.F.R. § 1540.5.
 23BDOs are not deployed to all TSA
-regulated airports, or at all checkpoints in airports 
where
 SPOT is deployed. A description of the BDO workforce for the airports included in 
the scope of this review can be found in appendix IV.
 Background 
BDA and the SPOT 
Program
    
 
 
 Page 
9 
GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  individuals with connections to terrorist networks that may be involved in 
criminal activity supporting terrorism.ﬂ
 TSA developed its primary behavior detection activity, the SPO
T program, in 2003 as an added layer of security to identify potentially high
-risk passengers through behavior observation and analysis techniques.
24 The SPOT program™s standard operating procedures state that BDOs are 
to observe and visually assess passengers, primarily at passenger 
screening checkpoints, and identify those who display clusters of 

behaviors indicative of stress, fear, or deception. The SPOT procedures 
list a point system BDOs are to use to identify potentially high
-risk 
passengers on the basis of behavioral and appearance indicators, as 
compared with baseline conditions where SPOT is being conducted
.25 A team of two BDOs 
is to observe passengers as they proceed through the 
screening process.
26 This process is depicted in figure 1.
                                                                                                                     
 24In August 2011, TSA began piloting another behavior detection activity, the Assessor 
program, during which specially trained BDOs utilized interviewing techniques and 
behavioral indicators to evaluate all passengers at a checkpoint. In February 2013, BDA 

officials reported that the pilot had been discontinued, but as of July 2013, officials stated 
that the agency was reevaluating the Assessor program.
 25GAO
-10-763. We reported in May 2010 that TSA developed the SPOT behavioral 
indicators, in part, on the basis of unpublished DHS, defense, and intelligence community 
studie
s, as well as operational best practices from law enforcement, defense, and the 
intelligence communities. We also reported that National Research Council officials stated 

that an agency should be cautious about relying on the results of unpublished researc
h that has not been peer
-reviewed, and using unpublished work as a basis for proceeding 
with a process, method, or program. 
 26BDOs may be deployed outside checkpoint screening areas to perform behavior 
detection activities as part of other airport security
 operations, such as passenger 
screening at boarding gates or undercover plainclothes duty. 
    
 
 
 Page 10
 GAO
-14-1
59  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  Figure 1: Th
e Scr
ening of Passengers by Observation Techniques (SPOT) Process
     
 
 
 Page 11
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  According to TSA, it takes a BDO less than 30
 seconds to meaningfully 
observe an average passenger.
27 If one or both BDOs observe that a 
passenger reaches a predetermined point threshold, the BDOs are to 
direct the passenger and any traveling companions to the second step of 
the SPOT process
ŠSPOT referral screening. During SPOT referral 
screening, BDOs are to engage the passenger in casual conversation
Ša voluntary informal interview
Šin the checkpoint area or a predetermined 
operational area in an attempt to determine the reason for the 

passenger™s behaviors and either confirm or dispel the observed 
behavio
rs.28 SPOT referral screening also involves a physical search of 
the passenger and his or her belongings. According to TSA, an average 

SPOT referral takes 13 minutes to complete.
29 If the BDOs concur that a 
passenger™s behavior escalates further during the referral screening or if 
other events occur, such as the discovery of fraudulent identification 
documents or suspected serious prohibited or illegal items, they are to 
call a LEO to conduct additional screening
Šknown as a LEO referral
Šwho then may allow the
 passenger to proceed on the flight, or may
 question, detain, or arrest the passenger.
30 The federal security d
irector 
                                                                                                                    
 27TSA, Office of Security Capabilities, 
Behavior Analysis Capability (BAC) Risk Based 
Allocation Methodology: Phase I: Final Report 
(Washington, D.C.: December 2012
). 
28BDOs are to attempt to resolve the exhibited behaviors during the casual conversation. 
BDOs are to continue to watch for behaviors and accumulate any additional behavioral 
points to the passenger™s initial points. If the passenger™s cumulative points exceed the 
LEO point threshold, then the BDOs are to notify a LEO. 
 29TSA, Office of Security Capabilities, 
Behavior Analysis Capability (BAC) Risk Based 
Allocation Methodology: Phase I: Final Report
 (Washington, D.C.: December 2012).
 30 TSA has designated ﬁserious prohibited itemsﬂ from TSA™s prohibited items list. See 70 
Fed. Reg. 72.930 (Dec. 8, 2005). TSA defines ﬁillegal itemsﬂ as those items which may be 

evidence of criminal wrongdoing, such as possession of illegal drugs, child pornography, 
or money laundering. This report hereinafter refers to these items as ﬁserious prohibited or 

illegal items. LEOs responding to SPOT referrals are officers from local airport law 
enforcement agencies; federal agencies, such as U.S. Customs and Border Protection, 
U.S. I
mmigration and Customs Enforcement, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the 

Drug Enforcement Administration; or other law enforcement agencies. According to SPOT 
procedures, BDOs must immediately request a LEO™s assistance when any of the 
following events occur: the individual becomes disorderly, assaults, threatens, intimidates, 

or otherwise interferes with the screening process; the individual makes a comment about 
or reference to the presence of an explosive device; the individual refuses to complet
e screening once the process begins; harm to persons or infrastructure has occurred or is 
imminent; suspected illegal items are discovered; firearms, weapons, hazardous 
materials, or explosives are discovered; fraudulent identification or travel documentat
ion is 
discovered; an artfully concealed prohibited item is discovered; or SPOT behaviors 
totaling more than a certain point threshold are observed.
    
 
 
 Page 12
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  or designee, regardless of whether a LEO responds, is responsible for 
reviewing the circumstances surrounding a LEO referral and making th
e determination about whether the passenger can proceed into the sterile 
area of the airport.
  The costs of the SPOT program are not broken out as a single line item in 
the budget. Rather, SPOT program costs are
 funded thr
ough three 
separate program, project, a
ctivity (PPA)
-level accounts: (1) BDO payroll 
costs are funded through the Screener Personnel Compensation and 

Benefits (PC&B) PPA,
 (2) the operating expenses of the BDOs and the 
program are funded through the 
Screene
r Training and Other PPA,
 and 
(3) the program management payroll costs are funded through the Airport 

Management and Support PPA. From fiscal year 2007
Šwhen the SPOT 
program began deployment nationwide
Šthrough fiscal year 2012, about 
$900 million has been expended on the program, as shown in figure 2.
 Figure 2: TSA Expenditures on the Screening of Passengers by Observation 
Techniques (SPOT) Program, Fiscal Years 2007 through 2012
  The majority of the funding (approximately 79 percent) for the SPOT 

program 
covers workforce costs and is provided under the Screener 
Personnel Compensation and Benefits PPA. This PPA
Šfor which TSA 
requested about $3 billion for fiscal year 2014
Šfunds, among other TSA 
Overview of SPOT 
Program Funding
    
 
 
 Page 13
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  screening activities, BDOs and TSO screening of passengers and 
their 
property. The workforce of about 3,000 BDOs is broken into four separate 
pay bands. The F Band, or Master BDO, and the G Band, or Expert BDO, 
constitute the primary BDO workforce that screens passengers using 

behavior detection. The H and I bands are
 supervisory
-level BDOs, 
responsible for overseeing SPOT operations at the airport level. 

According to TSA figures, in fiscal year 2012, the average salaries and 

benefits of an F Band BDO full
-time equivalent (FTE) was $66,310; a G 
Band BDO was $78,162, and the average FTE cost of H and I Band BDO 

supervisors was $97,392.
  In 2007, S&T began research to assess the validity of the SPOT program. 
The contracted study, issued in April 2011, was to examine the extent to 

which using the SPOT referral report and its indicators, as established in 
SPOT procedures, led to correct screening decisions at security 
checkpoints.
31 Two primary studies were designed within the broader 
validation study:
 1. an indicator study: an analysis of the behavioral and appearance 
indicators recorded in SPOT referral reports over an approximate 5
-year period and their relationships to outcomes indicating a possible 
threat or high
-risk passenger, and
 2. a comparison study: an analysis over an 11
-month period at
 43 airports that compared
 arrests and other outcomes for
 passengers 
selected using the SPOT referral report with passengers selected and 

screened at random, as shown in table 1.
32 The validation study
 found
, among other thi
ngs, that some SPOT 
indicators ap
peared to be predictors of outcomes indicating a possible 
threat or high
-risk passenger, and that SPOT procedures were more 
                                                                                                                    
 31The study aimed to answer the following research question: ﬁTo what extent does the 
use of the existing SPOT referral report lead to valid inferences about the traveling 
population with a focus on high
-risk travelers, or persons knowingly and intentionally trying 
to defeat the security process?ﬂ
 32To select passengers randomly for the validation study, data col
lection procedures 
stated that, at designated times, BDOs were to select and observe the first passenger who 
passed a designated marker at the entrance of a checkpoint screening line. Randomly 
selected passengers and their companions were to undergo referral screening, without 

regard to their SPOT scores.
 Overview of the Validation 
Study 
   
 
 
 Page 14
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  effective 
than a selection of passengers through a random protocol 
in 
identifying outcomes that represent high
-risk passengers.
 Tabl
e 1: Overview of Screening of Passengers by Observation Techniques (SPOT) 
Validation Study Datasets
  Method of 
passenger 
selection
 Dates covered
 Number of 
passengers 
referred for 
screening
 Number of 
airports
 Indicator 

study 
SPOT 

procedures
 January 1, 2006
, 
through 
October 31, 2010
 247,630
 175 Comparison 

study 
Random 

selection
 December 1, 2009
, 
through 
October 31, 2010
 71,589
 43  SPOT 
procedures
 December 1, 2009
, 
through 
October 31, 2010
 23,265
 43 Source: DHS validation study.
  While the validation study
 was being finalized, DHS convened a TAC 
composed of 12 researchers and law enforcement professionals who met 
for 1 day in February 2011 to evaluate the methodology of the SPOT 
validation study.
33 According to the TAC report, TAC members received 
briefings 
from the contractor that described the study plans and results, 
but because of TSA™s security concerns, TAC members did not receive 
detailed information about the contents of the SPOT referral report, the 
individual indicators used in the SPOT program, the
 validation study data, 
or the final report containing complete details of the SPOT validation 
study results. The TAC report noted that several TAC members felt that 
these restrictions hampered their ability to perform their assigned tasks. 

According to TSA, TAC members were charged with evaluating the 
methodology of the study, not the contents of the SPOT referral report. 
Consequently, TSA officials determined that access to this information 

was not necessary for the TAC to fulfill its responsibilities. S&
T also 
contracted with another contractor, a human resources research 

organization, to both participate as TAC members and write a report 

summarizing the TAC meeting and subsequent discussions among the 
                                                                                                                    
 33The validation study stated that three reviews of the study were held. The first and 
second reviews, held in July and October 2010, were focused on making 
recommendations about additional analyses and fut
ure research directions. The final TAC 
review, in February 2011, involved some participants from the first two reviews and was 
focused on evaluating the validation study results.
    
 
 
 Page 15
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  TAC members. In June 2011, S&T issued the TAC report,
 which 
contained TAC recommendations on future work as well as an appendix 
on TAC dissenting opinions. The findings of the TAC report are discussed 
later in this report.
  Meta
-analyses and other published research studies we reviewed do not 
support whether 
nonverbal behavioral indicators can be used to reliably 
ide
ntify deception
.34 While the April 2011 SPOT validation study was a 
useful initi
al step and, in part, addressed issues raised in our May 2010 

report, it does not demonstrate the effectiveness of the SPOT indicators 
because of methodological weaknesses in the study. Further, TSA 

program officials and BDOs we interviewed agree that some
 of the 
behavioral indicators used to identify passengers for additional screening 

are subjective. TSA has plans to study whether behavioral indicators can 

be reliably interpreted, and variation in referral rates raises questions 
about the use of the indic
ators by BDOs.
                                                                                                                       
 34Meta
-analyses are reviews that analyze other studies and synthesize their fi
ndings, 
usually through quantitative methods. We reviewed four meta
-analyses, which contained 
analyses of 116, 206, 108, and 206 studies, respectively. Some studies were included in 

more than one meta
-analysis.
 Available Evidence 
Does Not
 Support 
Whether Behavioral 
Indicators Can Be 

Used to Ide
ntify 

Aviation Security 
Threats 
   
 
 
 Page 16
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
      
Peer
-reviewed, published research 
does 
not support 
whether
 the
 use of 
nonverbal behavioral indicators by human observers can accurately 
identify deception
.35 Our review of meta
-analyses and other studies 
related to detecting deception conducted over the past 60 years, and 
interviews with experts in the field, question the use of behavior 
observation techniques, that is, human observation unaided by 
technology, as a means for reliably detecting deception. The meta
-
analyses, or reviews that synthesize the findings of other studies, we 
reviewed collectively included research from more than 400 separate 
studies on detecting deception, and found that
 the ability of human 
observers
 to accurately identify deceptive behavior based on behavioral 
cues or indicators is the same as or slightly better than chance (54 
percent).
36 A 2011 meta
-analysis showed weak correlations between 
most behavioral cues studied and deception. For example, the meta
-analysis showed weak correlations for behavioral cues that have been 
                                                                                                                    
 35Examining verbal strategies used by individuals in interview or interrogation settings has 
been cited in research as promising in detecting deception because verbal cues are often 
more diagnostic than nonverbal cues. However, these techniques are not applicable to the 

SPOT program and are beyond the
 scope of our work. For example, the SPOT program 
conducts voluntary informal interviews of passengers
Šalso called casual conversation
Šafter they have been referred for additional screening, not as a basis for selecting 

passengers for additional screening.
 Further, since these interviews are voluntary, 
passengers are under no obligation to respond to the BDOs questions. The nonverbal 

behavioral indicators included in the studies we reviewed corresponded to SPOT 

indicators. 
 36M. Hartwig, and C. F. Bond, Jr.,
 ﬁWhy Do Lie
-Catchers Fail? A Lens Model Meta
-Analysis of Human Lie Judgments,ﬂ 
Psychological Bulletin
, vol. 137, no. 4 (2011); C. F. 
Bond, Jr., and B. M. DePaulo, ﬁAccuracy of Deception Judgments,ﬂ 
Personality and Social 

Psychology Review
, vol. 10, no. 3 
(2006); M. A. Aamodt, and H. Custer, ﬁWho Can Best 
Catch a Liar? A Meta
-Analysis of Individual Differences in Detecting Deception,ﬂ 
The 

Forensic Examiner
, 15(1) (Spring 2006); and, B. M. DePaulo, J. J. Lindsay, B. E. Malone, 
L. Mehlenbruck, K. Charlton, and H. Cooper, ﬁCues to Deception,ﬂ 
Psychological Bulletin
, vol. 129, no. 1 (2003). The first three meta
-analyses found, among other things, that the 

accuracy rate for detecting deception was an average of 54 percent. The fourth meta
-
analysis found that there were no effect sizes that differed significantly from chance.
 Published Research Does 
Not Support 
Whether the 
Use of Behavioral 
Indicators by Human 

Observers Can Identify 
Deception
 Studies of Nonv
erbal Indicators 
to Identify Deception
    
 
 
 Page 17
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  studied the most, such as fidgeting, postural shifts, and lack of 
eye 
contact.
37 A 2006 meta
-analysis reviewed, in part, the ability of both 
individuals trained in fields such as law enforcement, as well as those 

untrained, and found no difference in their ability to detect deception.
38 Additionally, a 2007 meta
-analysis on nonverbal indicators of deception 
states that while there is a general belief that certain nonverbal behaviors 
are strongly associated with deception
Šsuch as an increase in hand, 
foot, and leg movements
Šthese behaviors are diametrically opposed to 
observ
ed indicators of deception in experimental studies, which indicate 
that movements actually decrease when people are lying.
39 As part of our analysis, we also reviewed scientific research focused on 

detecting passenger deception in an airport environment. We
 identified a 
2010 study
Œbased on a small sample size of passengers
Œthat reviewed a 
similar behavior observation program in another country. The first phase 

of the study found that passengers who were selected based on 

behaviors were more likely to be referred to airport security officials for 
further questioning as compared to passengers who had been selected 
according to a random selection protocol. However, because the physical 

attributes of the passengers were found to be significantly different 
between
 those passengers selected based on behaviors versus those 
randomly selected, the researchers undertook a second phase of the 
study to control for those differences. The second phase revealed no 
differences in initial follow up rate between passengers selected based on 
behaviors and those matched for physical attributes. That is, when the 
                                                                                                                    
 37Hartwig and Bond, ﬁWhy Do Lie
-Catchers Fail? A Lens Model Meta
-Analysis of Human 
Lie Judgments.ﬂ See also A. Vrij, P. Granhag, and S. Porter, ﬁPitfalls and Opportunities in 
Nonverbal and Verb
al Lie Detection,ﬂ 
Psychological Science in the Public Interest,
 11(3) 
(2010). According to this review, the social clumsiness of introverts and the impression of 
tension, nervousness, or fear that is naturally given off by socially anxious individuals may
 be interpreted by observers as indicators of deception. Additionally, the review found that 

errors are also easily made when people of different ethnic backgrounds or cultures 

interact because behaviors naturally displayed by members of one ethnic group o
r culture 
may appear suspicious to members of another ethnic group or culture.
  
38Bond and DePaulo, ﬁAccuracy of Deception Judgments.ﬂ See also, C. F. Bond, Jr., and 
B. M. DePaulo, ﬁIndividual Differences in Judging Deception: Accuracy and Bias,ﬂ 
Psychologi
cal Bulletin
, vol. 134, no. 4 (2008). According to this review, individuals barely 
differ in their ability to detect deception, that is, poor lie detection accuracy is a robust and 

general finding that holds true across individuals and professional groups.
 39S. L. Sporer and B. Schwandt, ﬁModerators of Nonverbal Indicators of Deception, A 
Meta
-Analytic Synthesis,ﬂ 
Psychology Public Policy, and Law
, vol. 13, no. 1 (2007). 
    
 
 
 Page 18
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  control group was matched by physical attribute to passengers selected 
on the basis of behaviors, the follow up rate was the same. 
The 
researchers concluded that
 the higher number of passengers selected 
based on behaviors and referred for further questioning during the first 

phase of the study ﬁwas more the result of profilingﬂ than the use of 
behavior observation techniques
.40 As mentioned earlier in this report, the goal of the BDA program is to 
identify high
-risk passengers based on behavioral indicators that may 
indicate mal
-intent. However, other studies we reviewed found that there 
is little available research regarding the use of behavioral indicators to 
determine mal
-intent, or deception related to an individual™s intentions.
41 For example, a 2013 
RAND report
 noted that controversy exists regarding 
the use of human observation techniques that use behavioral indicators to 

identify individuals with intent to deceive secur
ity officials.
42 In particular, 
the study noted that while behavioral science has identified nonverbal 
behaviors associated with emotional and psychological states, these 
indicators are subject to certain factors, such as individual variability, that 
limit 
their potential utility in detecting pre
-incident indicators of attack.
43                                                                                                                     
 40According to TSA officials, in an effort to facilitate sharing of this type of researc
h, as 
well as validation results and best practices, among countries with behavior detection 
programs in civil aviation environments, the agency formed a study group together with 
Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and France.
 The study group was formed with
in the 
European Civil Aviation Conference, an organization of 44 European countries formed to 
harmonize civil aviation policies and practices and promote understanding on policy 
matters among its members and other regions of the world. In April 2013, this study group 
developed a policy paper that established principles of behavior detection in aviation 

security and discussed some of the practices in programs based in the United States, the 
United Kingdom, and France. The paper stated that while the programs
 were similarly 
based on selecting passengers on the basis of suspicious behaviors, the programs 
differed in their deployment at airport locations
Šscreening checkpoints, boarding gates, 
or arrival areas
Šand used different selection methods
Šrandom selection
 or 
categorization based on passengers™ behaviors.
 41C. R. Honts, M. Hartwig, S. M. Kleinman, and C. A. Meissner, ﬁCredibility Assessment at 
Portals.ﬂ (final report of the Portals Committee to the Defense Academy for Credibility 

Assessment, U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency, Washington, D.C.: Apr. 17, 2009). A. Vrij, 
P. Granhag, S. Mann, and S. Leal, ﬁLying about Flying: The First Experiment to Detect 

False Intent,ﬂ 
Psychology, Crime & Law
, Vol. 17, Iss. 7, (2011). 
 42P. K. Davis, W. L. Perry, R. A. Brown, D. 
Yeung, P. Roshan, and P. Voorhies, 
Using 
Behavioral Indicators to Help Detect Potential Violent Acts: A Review of the Science Base.
 (Santa Monica, California: RAND Corporation, 2013).
 43The study discussed factors that affect the use of nonverbal behavior i
ndicators, such as 
context sensitivity, and individual variability.
    
 
 
 Page 19
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  The 
RAND report
 also found that the techniques for measuring the 
potential of using behavioral indicators to detect attacks are poorly 
developed and worthy of further study.
44 Moreover
, a 2008 study performed for the Department of Defense by the 
JASON Program Office reviewed behavior detection programs, including 
the methods used by the SPOT program, and found that no compelling 
evidence exists to support remote observation of physiolog
ical signals 
that may indicate fear or nervousness in an operational scenario by 
human observers, and no scientific evidence exists to support the use of 
these signals in detecting or inferring future behavior or intent.
45 In 
particular, the report stated t
hat success in identifying deception and 
intent in other studies is post hoc and such studies incorrectly equate 
success in identifying terrorists with the identification of drug smugglers, 
warrant violators, or others.
46 For example, when describing the 
techniques used by BDOs in the SPOT program, the report concluded 
that even if a correlation were found between abnormal behaviors
 and 
guilt as a result of some transgression, there is no clear indication that the 
guilt caused the abnormal behavior. The repo
rt also noted that the 

determination that the abnormal behavior was
 caused by guilt was made 
after the 
fact, rather than being based on established criteria beforehand.
                                                                                                                     
 44As we reported in May 2010, a 2008 report by the National Research Council reported 
similar findings regarding the connection between behavioral indicators and individual 
mental states. S
pecifically, the report states that the scientific support for linkages 
between behavioral and physiological markers and mental state is strongest for 

elementary states, such as simple emotions; weak for more complex states, such as 

deception; and nonexistent for highly complex states, such as when individuals hold 
terrorist intent and beliefs. See 
GAO
-10-768 and National Research Council, 
Protecting 
Individual Privacy in the Struggle Against Terrorists: A Framework for Assessment 
(Washington, D.C.: National Academies Press, 2008).
 45JASON, The MITRE Corporation, S. Keller
-McNulty, study leader, 
The Quest for Truth: 
Deception and Intent Detection
, a special report prepared for the U.S. Department of 

Defe
nse, October 2008. The JASON Program Office is an independent scientific advisory 
group that provides consulting services to the U.S. government on matters of defense 
science and technology. Also, Vrij, Granhag, and Porter, in ﬁPitfalls and Opportunities i
n Nonverbal and Verbal Lie Detection,ﬂ state that virtually no research has been conducted 
on distinguishing between truths and lies about future actions or intentions.
 46The post hoc fallacy is committed when it is concluded that one event causes another 
simply because the proposed cause occurred before the proposed effect. For example, 
the fallacy involves concluding that A causes or caused B because A occurs before B and 

there is not sufficient evidence to actually warrant such a claim. 
    
 
 
 Page 20
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  Recent
 research on behavior detection has identified more promising 
results when behavioral indicators are used in combination with certain 
interview techniques and automated technologies, which are not used as 
part of the SPOT program. For example, several studies we reviewed that 

were published in 2012 and 2013 note that specific interviewing 
techniques, such as asking unanticipated questions, may assist in 
identifying deceptive individuals.
47 Researchers began to develop 
automated technologies to detect decepti
on, in part, because humans are 
limited in their ability to perceive, detect, and analyze all of the potentially 
useful information about an individual, some of which otherwise would not 
be noticed by the naked eye.
48 For example, the 2013 
RAND report
 noted
 that the link between facial microexpressions
Šinvoluntary expressions of 
emotion appearing for milliseconds despite best efforts to dampen or hide 
them
Šand deception can be evidenced by coding emotional expressions 
                                                                                                                    
 47For example, see
 U.S. Naval Research Laboratory, 
Behavioral Indicators of Drug 
Couriers in Airports
, (Washington D.C.: April 2013) and A. Vrij, and P. Granhag, ﬁEliciting 
Cues to Deception and Truth: What Matters Are the Questions Asked,ﬂ 
Journal of Applied 
Research in Memory and Cognition
, 1 (2012) 110
-117; and Davis, et.al., (2013). In August 
2011, TSA began piloting the Assessor program, during which specially trained BDOs 
utilized interviewing techniques and behavioral indicators to evaluate all passengers at a 

checkpo
int. In a January 2012 report on the pilot, TSA found that BDOs had difficulty 
distinguishing between the SPOT and Assessor indicators, which resulted in inconsistent 

application of indicators. The report also found that the ambiguous nature of many of the
 
Assessor indicators ﬁleaves the door open for potential misuse or profiling.ﬂ According to 
BDA officials in February 2013, the agency declined to expand the pilot further, in part 
because it did not fit into TSA™s risk
-based security strategy. However, in
 July 2013, BDA 
officials stated that they were reevaluating the Assessor program.
 48N. W. Twyman, M. D. Pickard, and M. B. Burns, ﬁProposing Automated Human 
Credibility Screening Systems to Augment Forensic Interviews and Fraud Auditing,ﬂ 

(paper presented 
at the Proceedings of the Strategic and Emerging Technologies 
Workshop at the American Accounting Association Annual Meeting, Washington D.C., 
Aug. 4, 2012).
 Studies of Interview 
Techniques and Automated 

Technologies to Identify 
Deception 
   
 
 
 Page 21
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  from a frame
-by-frame analysis of video.
49 However, the study concludes 
that the technique is not suitable for use by humans in real time at 
checkpoints or other screening areas because of the time lag and hours 
of labor required for such analysis.
50 Automated technologies are being 
explored by federal agencies in conjunction with academic researchers to 
overcome these limitations, as well as human fatigue factors and potential 
bias in trying to detect deception.
51 Although in the early stages of 
development, the study stated that automated technolo
gies might be 
effective at fusing multiple indicators, such as body movement, vocal 
stress, and facial microexpression analysis.
  The usefulness of DHS™s April 2011 validation study is limited, in part 
because the data the study used to examine the extent to which the 
SPOT behavioral indicators led to correct screening decisions at security 
checkpoints were from the SPOT database that we had previously found 

in May 2010 to have several weaknesses, and thus were potentially 
                                                                                                                    
 49In commenting on a draft of this report, TSA directed us to several studies related to 
microfacia
l expressions. These include M. G. Frank, and J. Stennett, ﬁThe Forced
-Choice 
Paradigm and the Perception of Facial Expressions of Emotionﬂ 
Journal of Personality and 
Social Psychology
, vol. 80(1) (January 2001); M. G. Frank, and P. Ekman, ﬁThe Ability to 
Detect Deceit Generalizes Across Different Types of High
-Stake Lies,ﬂ
 Journal of 
Personality and Social Psychology,
 vol. 72(6) (June 1997); P. Ekman and M. O™Sullivan, 
ﬁWho Can Catch a Liar?ﬂ 
American Psychologist
, vol. 46(9) (September 1991); P. Ekman, 
W.
 V. Friesen, M. O™Sullivan, A. Chan, I. Diacoyanni
-Tarlatzis, K. Heider, R. Krause, W. A. 
LeCompte, T. Pitcairn, P. E. Ricci
-Bitti, K. Scherer, M. Tomita, and A. Tzavaras, 
ﬁUniversals and Cultural Differences in the Judgments of Facial Expressions of 
Emoti
on,ﬂ
 Journal of Personality and Social Psychology
, vol. 53(4) (October 1987). 
According to the SPOT standard operating procedures, BDOs who have received training 
on microfacial behaviors are not to use those techniques to assess SPOT behavioral 
indicator 
points or to confirm or dispel observations of behaviors.
 50Other research has also questioned the use of microfacial expressions by security 
officials to identify potential threats in an airport environment. According to one study, 
microfacial expressions are more subtle than originally hypothesized and were detected 
only partially
Šin either the upper or the lower face but not simultaneously
Šincreasing the 
difficulty in reliably detecting deceit in a real
-time setting. See S. Porter and L. ten Brinke, 
ﬁRead
ing Between the Lies: Identifying Concealed and Falsified Emotions in Universal 

Facial Expressions,ﬂ 
Psychological Science
, vol. 19, no. 5 (2008). 
 51J. F. Nunamaker Jr., D. C. Derrick, A. C. Elkins, J. K. Burgoon, and M. W. Patton, 
ﬁEmbodied Conversation A
gent
-Based Kiosk for Automated Interviewing,ﬂ 
Journal of 
Management Information Systems, 
vol. 28, no.1 (Summer 2011). See also American 

Institutes for Research, ﬁ
Behavioral Indicators Related to Deception in Individuals with 
Hostile Intentions,
ﬂ (report pr
epared for DHS Science and Technology Directorate and 
U.S. Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, D.C., February 2008).
 Methodological Issues 
Limit the Usefulness of 
DHS™s April 2011 Indicator 
Validation Study
    
 
 
 Page 22
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  unreliable.
52 The SPOT indicator study analyzed data collected from 2006 
to 2010 to determine the extent to which the indicators could identify high
-risk passengers defined as passengers who (1) posse
ssed fraudulent 

documents, (2) possessed serious prohibited or illegal items, (3) were 
arrested by a LEO, or (4) any combination of the first three measures.
53 The validation study reported that 14 of the 41 SPOT behavioral 
indicators were positively and significantly related to one or more of the 
study outcomes.
54 However, in May 2010, we assessed the reliability of 
the SPOT database against 
Standards for Internal Control
 in the Federal 
Government
 and concluded that the SPOT database lacked controls to 
help ensure the completeness and accuracy of the data, such as 
computerized edit checks to review the format, existence, and 
reasonableness of data. We found, among other things, that BDOs could 

not 
record all behaviors observed in the SPOT database because the 
database limited entry to eight behaviors, six signs of deception, and four 

types of serious prohibited items per passenger referred for additional 

screening. BDOs are trained to identify 94 signs of stress, fear, and 
deception, or other related indicators.
55 As a result, we determined that, 
as of May 2010, the data were not reliable enough to conduct a statistical 
analysis of the association between the indicators and high
-risk 
passenger outcome
s. In May 2010, we recommended that TSA make 
changes to ensure the quality of SPOT referral data, and TSA 
subsequently made changes to the SPOT database. However, the 
validation study used data that were collected from 2006 through 2010
, 
prior to TSA™s imp
rovements to the SPOT database. Consequently, the 
data were not sufficiently reliable for use in conducting a statistical 
analysis of the association between the indicators and high
-risk 
passenger outcomes.
                                                                                                                     
 52GAO
-10-763.  53These outcome measures were developed for the validation study. Possession of 
fraudulent documents is a subset of possession of serious prohibited or illegal items. 
According the validation study, the possession of fraudulent documents was studied 
independently as an outcome measure, since it was the largest class of serio
us prohibited 
or illegal items. 
 54Although the SPOT data were potentially unreliable, we replicated the indicator analysis 
with the full set of SPOT referral data from the validation study to assess the results 

reported in the validation study, as shown in
 appendix II.
 55The 2011 SPOT standard operating procedures lists 94 signs of stress, fear, and 
deception, or other related indicators that BDOs are to look for, each of which is assigned 
a certain number of points.
    
 
 
 Page 23
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  In their report that reviewed the validation stud
y, TAC members 
expressed some reservations about the methodology used in analyzing 
the SPOT indicators and suggested that the contractor responsible for 
completing the study consider not reporting on some 
of 
its results and 
moving the results to an appendi
x, rather than including them as a 
featured portion of the report.
56 Further, the final validation study report 
findings were mixed, that is, they both supported and questioned the use 
of these indicators in the airport environment, and the report noted tha
t the study was an ﬁinitial stepﬂ toward validating the program. However, 

because the study used unreliable data, its conclusions regarding the use 
of the SPOT behavioral indicators for passenger screening are 
questionable and do not support the conclusion
 that 
they can or cannot 
be used to identify threats to aviation security. Other aspects of the 
validation study are discussed later in this report.
   
   
BDA officials at headquarters and BDOs we interviewed in four airports 
said that some of the behavioral indicators are subjective, and TSA has 

not demonstrated that BDOs can consistently interpret behavioral 
indicators, though the agency has efforts under
 way to reduce subjectivity 
in the interpretation by BDOs. For example, BDA officials at headquarters
 stated that the definition of some behaviors in SPOT standard operating 

procedures is subjective. Further, 21 of 25 BDOs we interviewed said that 
certain
 behaviors can be interpreted differently by different BDOs. SPOT 
procedures state that the behaviors should deviate from
 the 
environmental baseline
. 
As a result, BDOs™ application of the definition of 
the behavioral indicators may change over time, or in response to 

external factors.
                                                                                                                     
 56According to TSA officials, given the SPOT operational environment, these 
methodological constraints were unavoidable.
 Subjective Interpretation 
of Behavioral Indicators 

and Variation in Referral 
Rates Raise Questions 
about t
he Use of 

Indicators; TSA Plans to 
Study Indicators
 BDO Interpretation of Some 
Behavioral Indicators Is 
Subjective; TSA Plans Study
    
 
 
 Page 24
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  Four of the 25 BDOs we spoke with said that newer BDOs might be more 
sensitive in applying the definition of certain 
behavior
s. Our analysis of 
TSA™s SPOT referral data, discussed further below, shows that there is a 

statistically significant correlation between the length of time that an 

individual has been a BDO, and the number of SPOT referra
ls the 
individual makes per 160 hours worked, or about four 40
-hour work 
weeks. This suggests that different levels of experience may be one 
reason why BDOs apply the behavioral indicators differently.
 BDA officials agree that some of the SPOT indicators are subjective, and 

the agency is working to better define the behavioral indicators currently 
used by BDOs. In December 2012, TSA initiated a new contract to review 
the indicators in an effort to reduce the number of behavioral and 

appearance indicators used and to reduce subjectivity in the interpretation 
by BDOs.
57 In June 2013, the contractor produced a document that 
summarizes information on the SPOT behavioral indicators from the 
validation study analysis, such as how frequently the indicator was 
observ
ed, that it says will be used in the indicator review process. 
According to TSA™s November 2012 performance metrics plan, in 2014, 
the agency also intends to complete an inter
-rater reliability study.
58 This 
study could help TSA determine whether BDOs can reliably interpret the 
behavioral indicators, which is a critical component of validating the 
SPOT program™s results and ensuring that the program is implemented 

consistently.
                                                                                                                     
 57TSA has contracted for research on the indicators with the same firm that conducted the 
validation study. The contract, in the amount of $400,000, was to study the effectivenes
s of the SPOT indicators, among other areas of research. According to the contractor, when 
designing the validation study, it expressed concerns about how well
-defined the SPOT 
behavioral indicators were and proposed an initial study to work with BDOs to b
etter 
define behavioral indicators prior to the start of the full validation study. However, TSA 
moved forward with the field study of the SPOT program without completing the initial 
study of the behavioral indicators.
 58The consistency with which two (or more) raters evaluate the same data using the same 
scoring criteria at a particular time is generally known as inter
-rater reliability.
    
 
 
 Page 25
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  Our analysis of SPOT referral data from fiscal years 2011 and 2012 
indicates that SPOT and LEO referral rates vary significantly across 
BDOs at some airports
, 
which raises questions about the use of 
behavioral indicators by BDOs.
59 Specifically, we found that variatio
n exists in the SPOT referral rates among 2,199 nonmanager BDOs and 
across the 49 airports in our review, after standardizing the referral data 

to take account of the differences in the amount of time each BDO spent 
observing passengers, as shown in figure
 3.60                                                                                                                     
 59Up to three BDOs may be associated with a referral in the SPOT referral database. 
According to BDA officials, the BDO in
 the ﬁteam member 1ﬂ field is generally the primary 
BDO responsible for observing the behaviors required for a referral. To avoid double
-counting referrals, the referral rate is based on the number of referrals for which a BDO 
was identified as team member
 1. For additional information about the referral rate 
analysis, see appendix IV and for additional information about our methodology, see 
appendix III. 
 60We standardized the SPOT referral and arrest data across the 49 airports in our scope 
to ensure an accurate comparison of referral rates, based on the number of hours each 

BDO spent performing operational SPOT activities. For a complete description of our 

methodology, see appendix III.
 Referral Rates Raise Questions 
about the Use of Behavioral 

Indicators
    
 
 
 Page 26
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  Figure 3: Behavior Detection Officer (BDO) Rates for 49 Screening of Passengers by Observation Techniques (SPOT) 
Airports
, 
Fiscal Years 2011 and 2012
  Note
s: Referral rates are calculated per 160 hours worked by 2,199 nonmanager
 BDOs performing 
SPOT activities and exclude other BDO time, such as training and leave. For each airport, the mean 
BDO referral rate is bounded by the total range of values across all BDOs, and the interquartile 

range, which is the middle 50 percent between the 25th percentile and 75th percentile across all 

BDOs. 
More information about this analysis can be found in appendix IV.
 aMultiple refers to a group of BDOs who made referrals at more than one airport.
       
 
 
 Page 27
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  The SPOT referral rates of BDOs ranged from 0 
to 26 referrals per 160 
hours worked during the 2
-year period we reviewed. Similarly, LEO 
referral rates of BDOs ranged from 0 to 8 per 160 hours worked.
61 Further, at least 153 of the 2,199 nonmanager BDOs were never 
identified as the primary BDO responsible for a referral. Of these, at least 
76 were not associated with a referral during the 
2-
year period we 
reviewed
.62 To better understand the variation in referral rates, we analyzed whether 
certain variables affected SPOT referral rates and LEO referral ra
tes, 
including the airport at which the referral occurred, and BDO 
characteristics, such as their annual performance scores, years of 
experience, as well as demographic information, including age and 
gender.
63 The variables we identified as having a statist
ically significant 
relationship to the referral rates are shown in table 2.
64                                                                                                                       
 61The average SPOT referral rate across the 2,199 BDOs who conducted SPOT at the 
airports in our scope was 1.6 referrals per 160 hours worked. Thus, on average, 0.2 
percent of a BDO™s time, or roughly the equivalent of 1 work day over a 2
-year period, was 

spent engaging passengers during SPOT referral screening. This calculat
ion is based on 
TSA™s estimate that a BDO requires an average of 13 minutes to complete a SPOT 

referral. The average LEO referral rate for BDOs who conducted SPOT at the airports in 

our scope was 0.2 per 160 hours worked, or 1 LEO referral every 800 hours 
(or 
approximately 20 weeks). 
 62According to TSA officials, there is no minimum referral requirement for any time period. 
 63We conducted a multivariate analysis to examine the associations between the SPOT 
and LEO referral rates and the specific BDO while controlling for other BDO 
characteristics. See appendix IV for detailed information. 
 64This is statistically significant at the 0.05 level. 
    
 
 
 Page 28
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  Table 2: Variables Affecting Screening of Passengers by Observation Techniques (SPOT) Referral Rates and Law 
Enforcement Officer (LEO) Referral Rates at 49 Airports, Fiscal Year
s 2011 and 2012 
  Variables
  Airport
 Behavior 
detection 
officer (BDO) 
performance 
score
a BDO age
 Years of BDO 
experience
 Years of 
Transportation 
Security 
Administration 
(TSA) 
experience
 BDO gender
 BDO race
 BDO 
educational 
level
b SPOT referral 
rate 
  Š   Š  Š LEO referral 
rate 
   Š Š   Š Legend:   = Statistically significant relationship at the 0.05 level, as indicated by a multivariate model 
that
 assessed the effects of the different characteristics simultaneously.
 Š = Not statistically 
significant relationship at the 0.05 level.
 Source: GAO analysis of TSA data.
 Note
s: This analysis includes 2,199 nonmanager BDOs in 49 airports. LEO referrals are a subset of 
the SPOT referrals. For a detailed description of our findings, see appendix IV.
 aThe BDOs™ annual performance scores awarded under TSA™s pay
-for
-performance management 
system, called Performance Accountability and Standards System.
 bThe highest level of education attained by the individual when hired by TSA.
  We found that overall, 
the greatest amount
 of the variation in SPOT 
referral rates by BDOs 
was
 explained 
by the airport in which the referral 
occurred. That is, a BDO™s SPOT referral rate was associated with the 
airport at which he or she was conducting SPOT activities. Howe
ver,
 separate analyses we conducted indicate that these differences across 
airports were not fully accounted for by another variable that is directly 
related to individual airports. That variable accounted for less than half of 

the variation in SPOT referral r
ates accounted for by airports
. Combined, 
the remaining
 variables
Œincluding BDO performance score, age, years of 
BDO experience, years of TSA experience, race, and educational level
Œaccounted for 
little
 of the variation in SPOT referral rates. In commentin
g on this issue, TSA officials noted that variation in referral rates across 

airports could be the result of differences in passenger composition, the 

airport™s market type, the responsiveness of LEOs to BDO referrals, and 
the number and type of airlines at the airports, among other things. 
However, because TSA could not provide additional supporting data on 

these variables with comparable time
 frames, we were not able to include 
   
 
 
 Page 29
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  these variables in our analysis.
65 See appendix IV for a more detailed 
discussi
on of the findings from our multivariate analysis of referral rates.
 According to TSA, having clearly defined and consistently implemented 
standard operating procedures for BDOs in the field at the 176 SPOT 
airports is key to the success of the program. In
 May 2010, we found that 
TSA established standardization teams designed to help ensure 
consistent implementation of the SPOT standard operating procedures.
66 We followed up on TSA™s use of standardization teams and found that 
from 2012 to 2013, TSA made sta
ndardization team visits to 9 airports. In 
May 2012, officials changed their approach and data collection 

requirements and changed the name of the teams to program compliance 
assessment teams. From December 2012 through March 2013, TSA 
conducted pilot site
 visits to 
3 
airports to test and refine new compliance 
team protocols for data collection, which, among other things, involve 
more quantitative analysis of BDO performance. The pilot process was 
designed to help ensure that the program compliance assessme
nt teams 

conduct standardized, on
-site evaluations of BDOs
™ 
compliance with the 
SPOT standard operating procedures in a way that is based on current 
policy and procedures.
67 As of June 2013, TSA 
had 
visited and collected 
data at 
6 
additional airports and 
wa
s refining data input and reporting 
processes. According to BDA officials, TSA deployed the new compliance 
teams nationally in August 2013 and anticipates visiting an additional 13 
airports by the end of fiscal year 2013. However, the compliance teams 
are 
not generally designed to help ensure BDOs™ ability to consistently 
interpret the SPOT indicators
, 
and the agency has not developed other 
mechanisms to measure inter
-rater reliability.
68 TSA does not have 
                                                                                                                    
 65TSA provided monthly aggregate data on some of these variables for calendar year 
2012. According to TSA officials, database limitations prevented them from providing 
earlier data. Our analysis was based on aggregate hourly data for fiscal years 2011 and 

2012. As a result, it was not possible to incorporate these additional variables into our 
analysis.
 66GAO
-10-763. These teams were composed of at least two G
-Band, or expert, BDOs, 
who received an additional week of training on SPOT behavioral indicators and mentoring 
skills. The teams aimed to monitor airports™ compliance with the SPOT standard operating 
procedures, and to offer assistance in program management, among other things.
 67These evaluations include a review of BDO compliance with SPOT standard operating 
procedures, including requirements associated with paperwork and attire.
 68According to BDA officials, compliance teams will discuss any systematic inconsistent 
interpretations with airport management, if observed.
    
 
 
 Page 30
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  reasonable assurance that BDOs are reliably interpreting passengers™ 
behaviors within or among airports, in part
 because of the subjective 
interpretation of some SPOT behavioral indicators by BDOs and the 

limited scope of the compliance teams. This, coupled with the 

inconsistency in referral rates across di
fferent airports, raises questions 
about the use of behavioral indicators to identify potential threats to 

aviation.
 TSA has limited inform
ation to evaluate SPOT program effectiveness 
because the findings from the April 2011 validation comparison study are 

inconclusive 
because of
 methodological weaknesses in the study™s 
overall design and data collection. However, TSA plans to collect 

additio
nal performance data to help it evaluate the effectiveness of its 

behavior detection activities.
  
      DHS™s 2011 validation study compared the effectiveness of SPOT with a 
random selection of passengers and found that SPOT was
 between
 4 and 52 times mo
re likely to correctly identify a 
high
-risk passenger than 
random selection, depending on which of the study™s outcome measures 

was used to define persons knowingly and intentionally trying to defeat 
the security process.
69 However, BDOs used various methods to 
randomly select passengers during data collection periods of differing 
                                                                                                                    
 69These outcomes varied based on the specific outcome measure used to identify high
-risk passengers.
 According to an April 2011 statement before Congress, an S&T official 
reported that the validation study found that the SPOT program was significantly more 
effective than 
a random 
selection of passengers
. Specifically, the official stated that a 
high
-risk
 passenger was 9 times more likely to be identified using the SPOT program 
indicators versus a random selection of passengers. 
 TSA Has Limited 
Information to 
Evaluate SPOT 

Program 

Effectiveness but 

Plans to Collect 

Additional 

Performance Data
 Methodological Issues 
Affect the Results of DHS™s 
Study Comparing SPOT 
with Random Selection of 

Passengers
 Design Limitations
    
 
 
 Page 31
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  length at the study airports. Initially, the contractor proposed that TSA use 
random selection methods at a sample of 143 SPOT airports, based on 
factors such as the number of airport passengers.
70 If properly 
implemented, the proposed sample would have helped ensure that the 
validation study findings could 
be generalized to all SPOT airports. 
However, according to the study and interviews with the contractor, TSA 
selected a nonprobability sample of 43 airports based on input from local 
TSA airport officials who decided to participate in the study. TSA allowe
d the managers of these airports to decide which checkpoints would use 

random procedures and when they would do so during airport operating 
hours. According to the validation study and a contractor official, the 
airports included in the study were not randomly selected because of the 

increased time and effort it would take to collect study data at the 143 
airports proposed by the contractor. Therefore, the study™s results may 
provide insights about the implementation of the SPOT program at the 43 

airports where the study was carried out, but they are not generalizable to 
all 176 SPOT airports.
 Additionally, TSA collected the validation study data unevenly and 

experienced challenges in collecting an adequate sample size for the 
randomly selected passengers, 
facts that
 might have further affected the 
representativeness of the findings. According to established evaluation 
design practices, data collection should be sufficiently free of bias or other 
significant errors that could lead to inaccurate conclusions.
71 Specifically, 
in December 2009, TSA initially began collecting data from 24 airports 
whose participation in the study was determined by the local TSA 

officials. More than 7 months later, TSA added another 18 airports to the 
study when it determined that enough data were not being collected on 
the randomly selected passengers at participating airports to reach the 
                                                                                                                    
 70The study™s initial sampling plan included 143 of the 166 airports where SPOT was 
deployed in April 2009. The contractor excluded 23 of the 166 SPOT airports because 
they were considered small and ﬁnon
-hub primaryﬂ airports (i.e., collectively, publicly 
owned commercial service airports with less than 0.25 percent of all annual passenger 

boardings). The 143 airports were grouped into three strata based on the airports™ total 

annual enplanements, and within these strata, on passenger throughput and arrest rates. 
Further, the contractor made recommendations on the proportion of airports that should 
be selected from each stratum. The contractor assumed that each airport in each stratum 

had the same chance of being in the sample as any other. 
 71GAO
-12-208G.     
 
 
 Page 32
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  study™s required sample size.
72 The addition of the airports coincided with 
a substantial increase in referrals for additional screening and an une
ven 
collection of data, as shown in figure 4.
 Figure 4: Comparison Study Data Collected at 43 Airports by Month, December 
2009 through October 2010
   
As a result of this uneven data collection, study data on 61 percent of 

randomly selected passengers were
 collected during the 3
-month period 
from July through September 2010. By comparison, 33 percent of the 

data on passengers selected by the SPOT program were collected during 

the same time. Because commercial aviation activity and the 
demographics of the traveling public are not constant throughout the year, 
this uneven data collection may have conflated the effect of random 

versus SPOT selection methods with differences in the rates of high
-risk 
passengers when TSA used either method.
                                                                                                                     
 72One additional airport was added in March 2010, and another 18 airports were added in 
July 2010. 
    
 
 
 Page 33
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  In addition, the April
 2011 validation study noted that BDOs were aware 
of whether the passengers they were screening were selected as a result 
of the random selection protocol or SPOT procedures, which had the 
potential to introduce bias in the assessment. According to establi
shed 
practices for evaluation design, when feasible, many scientific studies use 
ﬁblindﬂ designs, in which study participants do not know which procedures 
are being evaluated. This helps avoid potential bias due to the tendency 

of participants to behave or
 search for evidence in a manner that supports 
the effects they expect each procedure to have.
73 In contrast, in the SPOT 
comparison study
, 
BDOs knew whether each passenger they screened 
was selected through SPOT or random methods. This may have biased 

BDOs
™ screening for high
-risk passengers, because BDOs could have 
expected randomly selected passengers to be lower risk and thus made 
less effort to screen passengers.
74 In interviews, the contractor and 
four
 of 
the eight
 members of the TAC we interviewed agreed that this may be a 
design weakness.
75 One TAC member told us that the comparison study 
would have been more robust if the passengers had been
 randomly 
selected by people without any prior knowledge of SPOT indicators to 
decrease the possibility of bias. 
To reduce 
the 
possibility of bias in the 
study, another TAC member suggested that instead of using the same 
BDOs to select and screen passengers, some BDOs could have been 
responsible for selecting passengers and other BDOs for screening the 

passengers, re
gardless of whether they were selected randomly or by 
SPOT procedures. According to validation study training materials, BDOs 

were used to select both groups of passengers in an effort to maintain 

normal security coverage during the study. Another TAC member stated 
that controls were needed to ensure that BDOs gave the same level of 
scrutiny to randomly selected passengers as those referred because of 

their behaviors. The c
ontractor officials reported 
that 
they were aware of 
the potential bias, and tried to
 mitigate its potential effects by training 
BDOs who participated in the validation study to screen passengers 

ide
ntically, regardless of how they
 were selected. However, the contractor 
stated that 
they could not fully control these selections because BDOs
 were expected to conduct their regular SPOT duties concurrently during 
                                                                                                                    
 73GAO
-12-208G.  74According to the validation study protocols, BDOs were to screen randomly selected 
passengers in the same manner as passengers referred by SPOT procedures.
 75The remaining four TAC members we interviewed did not comment on this aspect of the 
study™s design. 
    
 
 
 Page 34
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  the study™s data collection on random passenger screening.
76 The 
validation study discussed several limitations 
that
 had the potential to 
introduce bias, but concluded that they did not
 affect the results of the 
study.
 Our analysis of the validation study data regarding one of the primary 
high
-risk outcome measure
sŠLEO arrests
Šsuggests that the screening 
process was different for passengers depending on whether they were 

selected using SPOT procedures or the random selection protocol. 

Therefore, the study™s finding that SPOT was 
much
 more likely to identify 
high
-risk passengers who were ultimately arrested by a LEO may be 
considerably inflated.
77 Specifically, a necessary condition influencing the 
rate of the arrest outcome measure
Šexposure to a LEO through a LEO 

referral
Šwas not equal in the two groups. The difference between the 
groups occur
red
 because randomly selected passengers were likely to 
begin the SPOT referral process with zero p
oints or very few points, 
whereas
 passengers selected on the basis of SPOT began the process at 
the higher, established point threshold required for BDOs to make a 
SPOT referral. However, because the point threshold for a LEO referral 
was the same for both
 groups, the likelihood that passengers selected 
using SPOT would escalate to the next point threshold, resulting in a LEO 
referral and possible LEO arrest, was greater than for passengers 
selected randomly. Our analysis showed that because of the discrepa
ncy 

in the points accrued prior to the start of the referral process, passengers 
who were selected on the basis of SPOT behavioral indicators were more 
likely to be referred to a LEO than randomly selected passengers. Our 

analysis indicates that the validation study design could have been 
improved by treating each group similarly, regardless of the passengers™ 
accumulated points. For example, as a possible approach, 
both groups 

could have been referred to LEOs only in the cases where BDOs 
discovered a serious prohibited or illegal item. Established study design 
practices state that identifying key factors known to influence desired 

evaluation outcomes will aid in forming treatment and comparison groups 
                                                                                                                    
 76Validation study training materials state that BDOs were instructed to stop data 
collection if they observed other passengers exhibiting behaviors that warrante
d further 
observation to address airport security concerns. 
 77When LEO arrests are not used, the validation study reported that the SPOT process 
was slightly more likely to identify passengers with fraudulent documents and serious 
prohibited or illegal items than random selection. 
    
 
 
 Page 35
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  that are as similar as possible, thus strengthening the 
analyses™ 
conclusions.
78 Additionally, once referred to a LEO, passengers selected at random 
were arrested for different reasons than those selected on the basis of 
SPOT indicators, which suggest
s 
that the two groups of passengers were 
subjected to different types of screening.
 All 
randomly selected 
passengers who were identified as high risk, referred to
 a LEO, and 
ultimately arrested
 possessed fraudulent documents or serious prohibited 
or illegal items.
79 In contrast, 
most
 of the passengers arrested after having 
been referred on the basis of SPOT behavior indicators were arrested for 

reasons other than fraudulent documents or serious prohibited or illegal 
items. These reasons for arrest include
d 
outstanding warrants by law 
enforcement agencies, public intoxication, suspected illegal entry into the 
United States, and disorderly conduct.
80 Such differences in the reasons for arrest suggest
 that referral screening 
methods may have varied according to the method of selection for 
screening, consistent with the concerns of the TAC members and the 

contractor. Thus, because randomly selected passengers were assigned 
points differently during scre
ening and consequently referred to LEOs far 
less than those referred by SPOT, and because being referred to a LEO 

is a necessary condition for an arrest, the results related to the LEO 
arrest metric are questionable and cannot be relied upon to demonstrate
 SPOT program effectiveness.
                                                                                                                      
 78GAO
-12-208G.  79According to the validation study, the majority of the arrested passengers were arrested 
because of possession of a controlled substance. 
 80Outstanding warrants would be discovered by LEOs, who, at their discretion, check
 the 
National Crime Information Center to determine if the passenger is wanted by any federal, 
state, local, or foreign criminal justice agencies or courts. U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection officials stationed at the airports told us that BDOs may refer passengers who 
are suspected of possessing fraudulent documents or who are suspected of illegal entry 

into the United States to make a determination of the passengers™ immigration status or 
validity of immigration documents. TSA officials told us that LEOs
 may not inform them of 
the ultimate dispositions of passengers taken into custody, and thus this information may 
not be included in the SPOT data.
    
 
 
 Page 36
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  To help ensure that all of the BDOs carried out the comparison study as 
intended, protocols for randomly selecting passengers were established 
that would help ensure that the methods would be the same acr
oss 
airports. The contractor emphasized that deviating from the prescribed 
protocol could increase the likelihood of introducing systematic 
differences across airports in the methods of random screening, which 
could bias the results. To ensure that airport
s and BDOs followed the 
study protocols, the contractor conducted monitoring visits at 17 of the 43, 
or 40 percent
, 
of participating airports. The first monitoring visits occurred 
6 months after data collection began, and 9 of the 17 airports were not 
visi
ted until the last 2 months of the study, as shown in figure 5.
81 Consequently, for 9 of these airports, the contractor could not have 
addressed the deviations from the protocols that 
were identified during 
the data
-monitoring visits until the last weeks of
 data collection.
                                                                                                                     
 81Data collection began in September 2009 at 24 airports during an initial pilot study 
period and continued throughout the primary study period, which was conducted from 
December 1, 2009, through October 31, 2010.
 Monitoring Weaknesses
    
 
 
 Page 37
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  Figure 5: Timeline of Data Monitoring Visits Conducted at 17 Airports for the Comparison Study, September 2009 through 
October 2010
  Note: This represents 17 of the 43 airports in the comparison study in which the contractor conducted 
data-monitoring visits. The remaining 26 airports collecting data for the study were not visited.
  In the April 2011 report of all 17 monitoring visits that were conducted, the 
most crucial issue the contractor identified was that BDOs deviated from 

the rando
m selection protocol in ways that did not meet the criteria for 
systematic random selection. For example, the contractor found that 
across airports, local TSA officials had independently decided to exclude 

certain types of passengers from the study 
because
 the airport officials 
felt it was unreasonable to subject these types of passengers to referral 

screening. At 
1 
airport visited less than 4 weeks before data collection 
ended, BDOs misunderstood the protocols and incorrectly excluded 
a    
 
 
 Page 38
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  certain type of pas
senger
.82 As a result, certain groups of potentially 
lower
-risk passengers were systematically excluded from the population 
eligible for random selection. In addition, the contractor found that some 
BDOs used their own methods to select passengers, rather than the 
random selection protocol that was specified. The contractor reported that 
if left uncorrected, this deviation from the protocols could increase the 

likelihood of introducing systematic bias into the study. For example, at 
one airport visited less than 6 weeks before data collection ended, BDOs 
selected passengers by attempting to generate numbers they thought 

were random by calling out numbers spontaneously, such as ﬁseven,ﬂ and 
using the numbers to select the 
seventh
 passenger, instead of followin
g the random selection protocol. At another airport visited less than 6 
weeks before data collection ended, contrary to random selection 
protocols, BDOs, rather than the data collection coordinator, selected 
passengers to undergo referral screening.
83 Altho
ugh deviations from the 
protocol may not have produced a biased sample, any deviation from the 
selection protocol suggests that BDOs™ judgment may have affected the 

random selection and screening processes in the comparison study.
 In addition to the limita
tions 
cited above, the April 2011 validation study 
noted other limitations such as the limited data useful for measuring high
-risk passenger outcomes, the lack of information on the specific location 

within the airport where each SPOT indicator was first o
bserved, and 

difficulties in differentiating whether passengers were referred because of
 observed behaviors related to elevated indicators of stress, fear
, 
and deception, or for other reasons. The validation study concluded that 

further research to fully v
alidate and evaluate the SPOT program was 
warranted. Similarly, the TAC report cited TAC members™ concerns that 

the validation study results ﬁcould be easily misinterpreted given the 

limited scope of the study and the caveats to the data,ﬂ and that the 
ﬁresults should be presented as a first step in a broader evaluation 
process.ﬂ Thus, limitations in the study™s design and in monitoring how it 
was implemented at airports could have affected the accuracy of the 
study™s conclusions, and limited their usefulness in determining the 
                                                                                                                    
 82Certain details about the findings of the monitoring visits were deleted because TSA 
considered them to be sensitive. 
 83Study protocols stated that the data collection coordinator was to randomly select 
passengers by selecting the first passenger to cross a designated selection marker when 
data collection started. At this airport, the data collection coordinator gave a visu
al sign to 
the BDO, who selected the passenger. 
    
 
 
 Page 39
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  effectiveness of the SPOT program. As a result, the incidence of high
-risk 
passengers in the normal passenger population remains unknown, and 
the incidence of high
-risk passengers identified by random selection 
cannot be compared with
 the incidence of
 those identified using SPOT 
methods.
  
TSA
 plans to collect and analyze additional performance data needed to 
assess the effectiveness of its behavior detection activities. In response 
to recommendations we made in May 2010 to conduct a cost
-benefit 
analysis and a risk assessment, TSA completed two analyses of the BDA 
program in December 2012, but needs to complete additional analysis to 
fully address our recommendations.
84 Specifically, TSA completed a 
return
-on-investment analysis and a risk
-based allocation analysis, both 
of which were designed in part to inform the future direction of the 

agency™s behavior detection activities, including the SPOT program.
85 The 
return
-on-investment analysis assessed the additional value that BDOs 
add to TSA™s checkpoint screening system, and concluded that BDOs 
provide an integral value to the checkpoint screening process.
86 However, 
the report did not fully support its assumptions related to the threat 
frequency or the direct and indirect consequence of a successful attack, 
as is recommended by best practices.
87 For example, TSA officials told us 
that the threat and consequence assumptions in the analysis were 
designed to be consistent with the 2013 Transportation Security System 

Risk Assessment (TSSRA)
, 
but the analysis did not explain why a 
catastrophic event was the only relevant threat scenario considered when 
                                                                                                                    
 84GAO
-10-763.  85TSA, Office of Security Capabilities, 
Behavior Detection Officer (BDO) Return on 
Investment: Final Report
 and 
Behavior Analysis Capability 
(BAC) Risk Based Allocation 
Methodology: Phase I: Final Report
, (Washington, D.C.: December 2012).
 86TSA™s return
-on-investment analysis calculated a range of break
-even points at which 
the cost of the BDA program is compared with the calculation of the dir
ect and indirect 
consequences of a successful attack and the frequency of such an attack.
 87See, for example, OMB Circular
-A-94 and DHS, 
National Infrastructure Protection Plan: 
Partnering to Enhance Protection and Resiliency
 (Washington, D.C.: January 2009
). 
 TSA Plans to Collect and 
Analyze Needed 

Performance Data
    
 
 
 Page 40
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  determining consequence.
88 Additionally, the analysis relied on 
assumptions regarding the effectiveness of BDOs and other 
countermeasures that were based on questionable information. For 

example, the analysis
 relied on results reported in the April 2011 
validation study
Šwhich, as discussed earlier, had several methodological 
limitations
Šas evidence of the effectiveness of BDOs. Further, a May 
2013 DHS OIG report found that TSA could not accurately assess the 
effectiveness or evaluate the progress of the SPOT program because it 
had not developed a system of performance measures at the time of the 
OIG review.
89 In response, TSA provided the OIG with a draft version of 
its performance metrics plan. This plan has since been finalized and is 
discussed further below.
 TSA™s risk
-based allocation analysis found that an additional 584 BDO 
FTEs should be allocated to 
smaller 
airports 
in an effort to cover existing 
gaps in physical screening coverage and performance, an act
ion that
, if 
implemented, would result in an annual budgetary increase of 
approximately $42 million.
90 One of the primary assumptions in the risk
-based allocation analysis is related to the effectiveness of BDOs. For 
example, this analysis suggests that BDOs may be effective in identifying 
threats to aviation security where gaps exist in physical screening 
coverage and performance, including the use of walk
-through metal 
detectors and advanced imaging technology machines. However, TSA 
has not evaluated the effectiveness of BDOs in comparison with these 
other screening methods.
                                                                                                                     
 88TSA officials told us that the return
-on-investment analysis assumed a consequence 
value on the scale of one September 11, 2001, attack, or $50 billion in direct and indirect 
consequences, each year. Of the top 12 attack scenarios that the TSSRA identifies for 
aviation, 4 of the scenarios are on the scale of a September 11, 2001 attack. Additionally, 
while TSA™s analysis explains that changing the attack frequency will change the cost
-effectiveness of all security measures, it does not provide any furt
her explanation of how 
the attack frequency was determined. 
 89Department of Homeland Security, Office of Inspector General. 
Transportation Security 
Administration™s Screening of Passengers by Observation Techniques
, OIG
-13-91. 
(Washington, D.C.: May 29, 20
13). 
 90TSA™s risk
-based allocation analysis considered threat, vulnerability, and consequence 
in a framework to determine where to place behavior detection capability resources 

nationally to maximize security. TSA™s fiscal year 2014 budget request included
 funding 
for
 an additional 72 BDO FTEs beyond its fiscal year 2013 BDO FTE funding levels.
    
 
 
 Page 41
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  In response to an additional recommendation in our May 2010 report to 
develop a plan for outcome
-based performance measures, TSA 
completed a performance metrics plan in November 2012, which details 

the performance measures required for TSA to determine whether the 

agency™s behavior detection activities are effective, and identifies the 
gaps that exist in its current data collection efforts.
91 The plan defined an 
ideal set of 40 metrics within three major categories that BDA needs to 
collect to be able to understand and measure the performance of its 
behavior detection activities. TSA then identified the gaps in its current 

data collection efforts, such as, under the human factors subcatego
ry, 
data on BDO fatigue levels and what staffing changes would need to be 
made to reduce the negative impact on BDO performance resulting from 

fatigue, as shown in figure 6.
 Figure 6: TSA™s Overall Assessment of Behavior Detection and Analysis (BDA) Data Collection Metrics, November 2012
  Note
s: For example, a low
 level of data refers to metrics that have been collected 
only 
one or two 
times and have no future scheduled recurrence.
                                                                                                                     
 91GAO
-10-763. Specifically, we recommended that TSA ﬁestablish a plan that includes 
objectives, milestones, and t
ime frames to develop outcome
-oriented performance 
measures to help refine the current methods used by Behavior Detection Officers for 
identifying individuals who may pose a risk to the aviation system.ﬂ 
    
 
 
 Page 42
 GAO
-14-1
59  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  aKey gaps refers to program components or performance measures for which TSA does not currently 
collect the data needed to understand and measure the performance of BDA™s activities.
 bThe VIPR Program works with local security and law enforcement officials to conduct a variety of 
security tactics to introduce unpredictability and
 deter potential terrorist actions, including random 
high
-visibility patrols at locations other than airports, and includes passenger and baggage screening 
operations involving BDOs and explosive detection canine teams and technologies.
  As of June 2013, T
SA 
had 
collected some information for 18 of 40 metrics 
the plan identified.
92 Once collected, the data identified by the plan may 
help support the completion of a more substantive return
-on-investment 
analysis and risk
-based allocation analysis, but accordi
ng to TSA™s 
November 2012 plan, TSA is currently collecting little to none of the data 
required to assess the performance and security effectiveness of BDA or 
the SPOT program. For example, TSA does not currently collect data on 

the percentage of time a BDO is present at a checkpoint or other areas in 
the airport while it is open. Without this information, the assumptions 
contained in TSA™s risk
-based allocation analysis cannot be validated. 
This analysis identified the existing BDO 
coverage
 level
 at the ai
rports 
where SPOT was deployed
 in 2011, and based its recommendations for 
an additional 584 BDOs on this coverage level.
 In May 2013, TSA began to implement a new data collection system, 

BDO Efficiency and Accountability Metrics (BEAM), designed to track a
nd 

analyze BDO daily operational data, including BDO locations and time 
spent performing different activities. According to BDA officials, this data 
will allow the agency to gain insight on how BDOs are utilized, and 

improve analysis of the SPOT program. The performance metrics plan 
may also provide other useful information in support of some of the other 
assumptions in TSA™s risk
-based allocation analysis and return
-on-investment analysis. For example, both analyses assumed that a BDO 
can meaningfully assess 450 passengers per hour, and that fatigue would 
degrade this rate over the course of a day. However, according to the 

performance metrics plan, TSA does not currently collect any of the 
information required to assess the number of passengers meaningfull
y assessed by BDOs, BDOs™ level of fatigue, or the impact that fatigue has 
                                                                                                                    
 92See appendix V for a complete list of the performance metrics and their status. 
    
 
 
 Page 43
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  on their performance.
93 To address these and other deficiencies, the 
performance metrics plan identifies 22 initiatives that are under way or 
planned as of November 2012, including efforts discussed earlier in this 

report, such as the indicator study and efforts to improve the SPOT 
compliance teams, among others. For additional information about the 
metrics that will result from the
se initiatives, see appendix V
. 
These data could help
 TSA assess the performance and security 
effectiveness of BDA and the SPOT program, and find ways to become 

more efficient with fewer resources in order to meet the federal 
government™s long
-term fiscal challenges, as recommended by federal 
government effi
ciency initiatives.
94 In lieu of these data, TSA uses arrest 
and LEO referral statistics to help track the program™s activities. Of the 
approximately 61,000 referrals made over the 2
-year period at the 49 
airports we analyzed, approximately 8,700 (14 percent) resulted in a 
referral to a LEO.
95 Of these LEO referrals, 365 (4 percent) resulted in an 
arrest. The proportion of LEO referrals that resulted in an arrest (arrest 
ratio) could be an indicator of the potential relationship between the 
SPOT behavioral indicators and an arrest.
96 As shown in figure 7, 99.4 
                                                                                                                    
 93When SPOT was being developed, TSA cited Dr. Paul Ekman, a professor emeritus of 
psychology at the University of California Medical School, and his work on emotions and 
their behavior indicators as evidence that behavioral cues can be used to detect 
deception. However, we reported in May 2010 that after observing the program in 

practice, Dr. Ekman said research was needed to identify how many BDOs are required to 
observe a given number of passengers moving at a given rate per
 day in an airport 
environment, or the length of time that such observation can be conducted before 
observation fatigue affects the effectiveness of the personnel. He commented at the time 
that observation fatigue is a well
-known phenomenon among workers whose work 
involves intense observation, and that it is essential to determine the duration of effective 
observation and to ensure consistency and reliability among the personnel carrying out 
the observations.
 94GAO
-11-908. This report, among other things, identified key practices associated with 
efficiency initiatives that can be applied more broadly across the federal government, 
including reexamining programs and related processes or organizational structures to 
determine whether they effectively or efficiently achieve the mission. 
 95As discussed earlier in this report, LEOs may choose to not respond to a BDO referral. 
 96The LEO referral
-to-arrest ratio may be indicative of a relationship between the SPOT
 behavioral indicators and the arrest outcome measure because an individual must 
possess a serious prohibited or illegal item, or display multiple SPOT behavioral 
indicators, for a LEO referral to occur. If the behavioral indicators were indicative of a 
threat to aviation security, a larger proportion of the individuals referred to a LEO may 
ultimately be arrested. However, the arrest ratios per airport ranged from 0 to 17 percent.
    
 
 
 Page 44
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  percent of the passengers that were selected for referral screening
Šthat 
is further questioning and inspection by a BDO
Šwere not arrested. The 
percentage of passengers referred to 
LEO
s that were arrested 
was
 about 
4 percent; the other 96 percent of 
passengers referred to 
LEO
s 
were not 
arrested. The SPOT database identifies 6 reasons for arrest, including 
(1) 
fraudulent documents, (2) illegal alien, (3) other, (4) outstanding warrants, 
(5) suspected drugs, 
and (6) undeclared currency.
97 Figure 7: Percentage of Screening of Passengers by Observation Techniques 
(SPOT) Referrals Resulting in Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) Referrals and Arrests 
at 49 Airports, Fiscal Years 2011 and 2012
  Note: Totals do not add up to 100 percent because of
 rounding.
                                                                                                                     
 97In a 2012 data audit of the SPOT database, TSA identifies problems with arrest data as 
one of three categories of ﬁpotential errors.ﬂ However, the audit does not report on the 

magnitude of this error category, because identifying these errors requires a manual audit 
of the data at the airport level. In contrast, the audit identif
ies more than 14,000 potential 
errors in the other two categories. As a result, we did not have assurance that the arrest 
data were reliable enough for us to report on details about these arrests.
    
 
 
 Page 45
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  In February 2013, BDA officials said between 50 and 60 SPOT referrals 
were forwarded by the Federal Air Marshal Service to other law 
enforcement agencies for further investigation to identify potential ties to 
terrori
sm.
98 For example, TSA provided documentation of three 
suspicious incident reports from 2011 of passengers who were referred 
by BDOs to LEOs based on behavioral indicators, and who were later 
found to be in possession of large sums of U.S. currency.
99 Accord
ing to a 
FAMS report on these incident reports, the identification of large amounts 
of currency leaving the United States could be the first step in the 
disruption of funding for terrorist organizations or other form of criminal 
enterprise that may or may not be related to terrorism. TSA officials said it 

is difficult to identify the terrorism
-related nexus in these referrals because 
they are rarely, if ever, informed on the outcomes of the investigations 

conducted by other law enforcement agencies, and thus have no way of 

knowing if these SPOT referrals were ultimately connected to terrorism
-related activities or investigations.
 Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government
 call
s for 
agencies to report on the performance and effectiveness of thei
r programs.
100 However, according to the performance metrics plan, TSA 
will require at least an additional 3 years and additional resources before 
it can begin to report on the performance and security effectiveness of 

BDA or the SPOT program. Given the scope of the proposed activities 
and some of the challenges that TSA has faced in its earlier efforts to 
assess the SPOT program at the national level, to complete the activities 
                                                                                                                    
 98TSA was unable to provide documentation to support the number of referrals that were 
forwarded to law enforcement for further investigation for potential ties to terrorism. 
Further, according to FAMS officials, when referrals in TISS are forwarded to other law 
enforcement officials for further investigation, the FAMS officials do not necessarily 

identify why the referral is being forwarded. That is, it would not be possible to identify 
referrals that were forwarded because of concerns associated with terrorism versus 
referrals that were forwarded because of other 
concerns, such as drug smuggling.
 99During the screening process, the passengers and their traveling companions were 
found to be in possession of United States currency in amounts ranging from $7,000 to 
$10,000. SPOT referral reports indicate that these passengers were referred for 
behaviors. The incident reports stated that passengers were interviewed by LEOs and 

subsequently released to their flights, and that the reports of these incidents were 
forwarded to the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bulk Cash Smuggling 
Center for further investigation. There is no indication on these reports whether the 

currency was seized. 
 100GAO/AIMD
-00-21.3.1
. 
   
 
 
 Page 46
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  in the time frames outlined in the plan would be difficult. In particular, the 
plan notes it is unrealistic that TSA will be able to evaluate the BDO 
security effectiveness contribution at each airport within the 3
-year 
timeframe. According to best practices for program management of 

acquisitions, technologies should be demonstrated to
 work reliably in their 
intended environment prior to program deployment.
101 Further, according 
to OMB guidance accompanying the fiscal year 2014 budget, it is 
incumbent upon agencies to use resources on programs that have been 
rigorously evaluated and determined to be effective, and to fix or 
eliminate those programs that have not demonstrated results.
102 TSA has 
taken a positive step toward determining the effectiveness of BDA™s 
behavior detection activities by developing the performance metrics plan, 
as we recommended in May 2010. However, 10 years after the 
development of the SPOT program, TSA cannot demonstrate the 

effectiveness of its behavior detection activities. Until
 TSA can provide 
scientifically 
validated evidence demonstrating that behavioral indica
tors 
can be used to identify passengers who may pose a threat to aviation 

security, the agency risks funding activities that have not been 
determined to be effective.
                                                                                                                      
 101GAO has identified eight key practice areas for 
program management of major 
acquisitions. Although SPOT was not acquired through an acquisition and DHS acquisition 
directives do not apply, some of the key program management practices could be 
considered for application in order to mitigate risks and help leaders make informed 

investment decisions about major security programs. One of these key practices is to 
demonstrate technology, design, and manufacturing maturity, the goal being to ensure a 
program or technology works prior to deployment. Specificall
y, prior to the start of system 
development, critical technologies should be demonstrated to work in their intended 
environment. Likewise, prior to a production decision and deployment, a fully integrated, 
capable prototype should demonstrate that the system will work as intended in a reliable 

manner. Given that SPOT™s life cycle cost will likely exceed $1 billion, if it were an 
acquisition, it would be considered a level 1 acquisition, and would be subject to the most 
rigorous review under DHS™s acquisition directives and guidance. Further, these directives 

require capital asset acquisition programs to undergo successful operational testing prior 
to deployment and state that the results of operational tests are to be used to evaluate the 
degree to which a program operates in the real world. See GAO, 
Homeland Security: DHS 

Requires More Disciplined Investment Management to Help Meet Mission Needs
, GAO
-12-833 (Washington, D.C.: Sept. 18, 2012). See also D
HS™s Acquisition 
Management Directive 102
-01 and DHS Instruction Manual 102
-01-001.
 102OMB, 
Analytical Perspectives
ŠBudget of the U.S. Government, Fiscal Year 2014. 
ISBN 978
-0-
16-091749
-3 (Washington, D.C.: 2013). 
    
 
 
 Page 47
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  TSA has taken several positive steps to validate the scientific basis and 
strengthen program management of BDA and the SPOT program, which 
has been in place for over 6 years at a total cost of approximately $900 
million since 2007. Nevertheless, TSA has not demonstrated that BDOs 

can consistently interpret the SPOT behavioral ind
icators, 
a fact that
 may 
contribute to varying passenger referral rates for additional screening. 

The subjectivity of the SPOT behavioral indicators and variation in BDO 

referral rates raise questions about the continued use of behavior 
indicators for dete
cting 
passengers
 who might pose a risk to aviation 
security. Furthermore, decades of peer
-reviewed, published research on 
the complexities associated with detecting deception through human 

observation also draw into question the scientific underpinnings of
 TSA™s 
behavior detection activities. While DHS commissioned a 2011 study to 
help demonstrate the validity of its approach, the study™s findings cannot 
be used to demonstrate the effectiveness of SPOT because of 
methodological limitations in the study™s design and data collection.
 While TSA has several efforts under way to assess the behavioral 

indicators and expand its collection of data to develop performance 

metrics for its behavioral detection activities, these efforts are not 
expected to be completed for several years, and TSA has indicated that 
additional resources are needed to complete them. Consequently, after 

10 years of implementing and testing the SPOT program, TSA cannot 
demonstrate that the agency™s behavior detection activities can reliably 
and effectively identify high
-risk 
passengers
 who may pose a threat to the 
U.S. aviation system.
  
 
 
To help ensure that security
-related funding is directed to programs that 
have demonstrated their effectiveness, Congr
ess should consider the 
findings in this report regarding the absence of scientifically validated 

evidence for using behavioral indicators to identify aviation security 
threats when assessing the potential benefits of behavior detection 
activities relative
 to their cost when making future funding decisions 
related to aviation security.
  
 To help ensure that security
-related funding is directed to programs that 
have demonstrated their effectiveness, we recommend that the
 Secretary 
of Homeland Security direct the TSA Administrator to limit future funding 
support for the agency™s behavior detection activities until TSA
 can 
provide scientifically validated evidence that demonstrates that behavioral 
Conclusions 
Matter for 
Congressional 
Consideration 
Recommendation for 
Executive Action
    
 
 
 Page 48
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  indicators can be used to identify passengers who may pose a threat to 
aviation security.
  We provided a draft of this report to DHS and the Department of Justice 

(DOJ)
 for review and comment. We also provided excerpts of this re
port 
to subject matter experts for their review to ensure that the information in 
the
 report was current, correct, and factual. DOJ did not have any 
comments
, 
and we incorporated technical comments from subject matter 
experts as appropriate. DHS provided written comments, which are 

printed in full in appendix VI, and technical comments, which we 
incorporated as appropriate. 
 DHS did not concur with 
the
 recommendation to the Secretary of 
Homeland Security that directed the 
TSA 
Administrator to limit future 
funding support for the agency™s behavior detection activities until
 TSA 
can provide scientifically validated evidence that demonstrates that 

behavioral indicators can be used to identify passengers who may pose a 
threat to aviation security.
 Citing concern
s with 
the
 findings and 
conclusions, DHS identified two main areas where it disagreed with 
information presented in the report: (1) 
the
 findings related to the SPOT 
validation study and (2) 
the
 findings related to the research literature. 
Further, DHS provided information on its investigation of profiling 

allegations. We disagree with the 
statements
 DHS made in its letter, as 
discussed in more detail below
.  With regard to the
 findings related to the SPOT validation study, DHS 
stated
 in its letter 
that we used different statistical techniques when we 
replicated the analysis of SPOT indicators as presented in the DHS April 

2011 validation study, 
a course of action that
 introduced error into our 
analysis and resulted in ﬁmisleadingﬂ conclusions. We disagree with this 
statement
. As described in 
the
 report, we obtained the validation study 
dataset from the DHS contractor and replicated the analyses 
using the 
same techniques that the c
ontractor 
used to conduct its analyses of 
SPOT indicators.
103 As an extra
 step, in addition to replicating the 
                                                                                                                    
 103We replicated the validation study analysis using the same techniques used by the 
contractor by (1) creating a series of 2 x 2 contingency tables in which each of the 41 
indicators was cross
-classified by each outcome, (2) calculating odds ratios to estima
te 
the association between each indicator and outcome, and (3) calculating chi
-square 
values for each table to test the significance of the odds ratio describing the association 

therein. 
 Agency 
and Third
-Party
 Comments and 
Our Evaluation
    
 
 
 Page 49
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  approach (split
-samples) used by the contractors
, 
as described in 
appendixes
 II and III of this report, we extended those analyses using the 
full sample of referral data to increase our ability to 
detect significant 
associations. In both the replication of the study analyses and
 the 
extended analyses we conducted, we found essentially the same result in 
one aspect
 as the validation study
Šthat some SPOT behavioral 
indicators were positively and significantly related to o
ne or more of the 
outcome measures. Specifically, the validation study reported that 14 of 
the 41 SPOT behavioral indicators were positively and significantly 
related
, and we found that 18 of the 41 behavioral indicators were 
positively and significantly r
elated. 
However, the findings regarding 
negatively and significantly 
related 
SPOT indicators were 
not 
consistent 
between the analyses we conducted and the validation study. 

Specifically, w
e found that 20 of the 41 behavioral indicators were 
negatively and significantly related to one or more of the study outcomes 

(see app.
 II). That is, we identified 20 SPOT behavioral indicators
 that 
were more commonly associated with passengers who were not ide
ntified 
as high
-risk passengers
 than with passengers who were identified as 
high
-risk passengers. In other words, some of the SPOT indicators that 
behavior detection officers are trained to detect are associated with 

passengers
 who were defined by DHS as low 
risk.
 Our results were not 
consistent with the validation study, because the study did not report any 
indicators that were negatively and significantly correlated with one or 
more of the outcome measures.
104 Further, 
because of
 limitations
 with the 
SPOT referral data that we reported in May 2010 and again in 
this
 report, 
the data the 
validation 
study used to examine behavioral indicators were 
not sufficiently reliable for use in conducting a statistical analysis of the 
association between the indicators and high
-risk passenger outcomes.
 We did use these data in order to replicate the validation study findings.
 Further, DHS stated
 in its letter that the TAC agreed with the study™s 
conclusion that SPOT was substantially better at identifying high
-risk 
passengers than a random 
screening 
protocol. However,
 we disagree 
with this statement
. While the TAC report stated that TAC members had 
few methodological concerns with the way the contractor carried out its 
                                                                                                                    
 104The validation study stated that 14 of the 41 SPOT indicators studied were positively 
and significantly related to one or more of the study outcomes and that the remaining 27 
of the 41 indicators did not consistently relate to any outcome. As stated in appendix II, 
this is inaccurate because our analysis indicates that 20
 of the 41 indicators were 
negatively and significantly related to one or more of the study indicators. 
    
 
 
 Page 50
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  research, the members did not receive detailed information on the study, 
including 
the validation study data and the final report containing the 
SPOT validation study results. Specifically, as discussed in our report
 and 
cited in the TAC report
, multiple
 TAC members had concerns about some 
of the conclusions in the validation study and s
uggested that the 
contractor responsible for completing the study consider not reporting on 

some of its results and moving the results to an appendix, rather than 

including them as a featured portion of the report. 
 Moreover, since the TAC did not receive detailed information about the 

contents of the SPOT referral report, the individual indicators used in the 
SPOT program, the validation study data, or the final report containing 
complete details of the SPOT validation study results, the TAC did not 

have access to all of the information that we used in our analysis. As 
discussed in our report, the TAC report noted that several TAC members 
felt that this lack of information hampered their ability to perform their 

assigned tasks. Thus, we continue to believe that our conclusion related 
to the validation study results is valid, and contrary to DHS™s 
statement
, we do not believe that the study provides useful data in understanding 
behavior detection.
 With regard to 
the
 findings related to the research lite
rature, DHS 
stated
 in its letter 
that we did not consider all the research that was available and 
that S&T had conducted research
Šwhile not published in academic 
circles for peer review because of various security concerns
Šthat 
supported the use of behavior detection. DHS also 
stated
 that research 
cited in 
the
 report ﬁlacked ecological and external validity,ﬂ because it did 
not relate to the use of behavior detection in an airport security 
environment. W
e disagree
. Specifically, as described in 
the
 report, 
we 
reviewed several documents on behavior detection research that S&T 

and TSA officials provided to us, including an unclassified and a classified 

literature review that S&T had commissioned. Further, after meetings in 
June and July 2013, S&T officials provided additional studies, which we 
reviewed and included in 
the
 report as applicable. We also included 
research in 
the
 report on the use of behavioral indicators that correspond 
closely to indicators identified in SPOT procedures as indicative of stress, 

fear, or deception. These studies, many of which were included in the 
meta
-analyses we reviewed, were conducted in a variety of settings
Šincluding high
-stakes situations where the consequences are great
, such 
as a police interview with an accused murderer
Ša
nd with different types 
of individuals
Šincluding law enforcement personnel. The
 meta
-analyses 
we reviewed
Šwhich collectively included research from over 400 

separate studies related to detecting deception conducted over the past 
   
 
 
 Page 51
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  60 years
Šfound that the ability of human observers to accurately identify 
deceptive behavior based on behavioral cues or indicators is the same as 
or slightly better than chance (54 percent). 
 Further, in its letter, DHS cited
 a 2013 
RAND report
, which concluded
 that 
there is current value and unrealized potential for using behavioral 
indicators as part of a system to detect attacks. We acknowledge that 

behavior detection holds promise for use in certain circumstances and in 
conjunction with certain other technologies. However, the 
RAND report
 DHS cited
 in its letter refers to behavioral indicators that are defined and 
used significantly more broadly than those in the SPOT program.
105 The 
indicators reviewed in the 
RAND report
 are neither used in the SPOT 
pro
gram, nor could be used in r
eal 
time in an airport environment.
106 Further, the 
RAND report
 findings cannot be used to support TSA™s use of 
behavior detection activities because the study stated that it could not 
make a determination of SPOT™s effectiveness because information on 
the program was not in the public domain. 
  
DHS also stated in its letter that it has several efforts under
 way
 to 
improve its behavior detection program and the methodologies used to 
evaluate it, including
 t
he optimization of 
its behavior detection procedures 
and plans to begin testing by the third quarter of fiscal year 2014 using 

robust test and evaluation methods similar to the operational testing 
conducted in support of technology acquisitions
 as part of its 3
-year 
performance metrics plan
. We are encouraged by TSA™s plans in this 
area. H
owever
, 
TSA did not provide supporting documentation 
accompanying
 these
 plans
 describing how it will 
incorporate robust data 
collection and authentication protocols, as discussed in DHS™s letter
. Such docum
entation 
is to be completed
 prior to beginning any operational 
testing. These documents might include a test and evaluation master plan 

that
 would describe, among other things, the tests that need
ed to be 
                                                                                                                    
 105Davis, and others, 
Using Behavioral Indicators to Help Detect Potential Violent Acts: A 
Review of the Science Base
. In its discussion of behavioral indicators, the RAND report 
includes indicators from ﬁpattern
-of-life dataﬂ
Šsuch as mobile device tracking and 
monitoring online activity
Šthat can indicate changes in lifestyle patterns, as well as 
communication patterns a
nd physiological indicators. 
 106For example, the RAND report states that coding emotional expressions for use in 
scientific studies currently involves a painstaking process of a frame
-by-frame analysis in 
which hours of labor is required to analyze seconds of data, and as such, would be too 
burdensome to use in real time at checkpoints or other screening areas. The RAND report 
also states that technologies to recognize and analyze such emotional expressions are in 

their infancy.
    
 
 
 Page 52
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  conducted to determine system technical performance
, operational 
effectiveness or suitability, and 
any 
limitations.
107  
Additionally, in its letter, DHS 
stated
 that 
the
 omission of research related 
to verbal indicators of deception was misleading because a large part of 

BDOs
™ 
work is interacting with passengers and assessing whether 
passengers™ statements ma
tch their behaviors, or if the
 passengers™ trip 
stories are in agreement with their travel documents and accessible 

property
. While BDOs™ interactions with passengers may elicit useful 
information, 
SPOT pr
ocedures indicate that casual conversation
Švoluntary informal interview
s conducted by BDOs with passengers 
referred for additional screening
Šis conducted 
after
 the passenger
s have
 been selected for a SPOT referral, not as a basis for selecting the 

passenge
rs 
for referral. Further, since these interviews are voluntary, 
passengers are under no obligation to respond to the BDOs questions
, 
and thus information on passengers may not be systematically collected
. As noted in our report, promising research on behavioral indicators cited 
in the RA
ND report and other literature 
is focused on using indicators in 
combination with automated technologies and certain interview 

techniques, such as asking unanticipated questions. However, when 

interviewing referred passengers for additional screening, BDOs do not 
currently have access to the automated technologies
 discussed in the 
RAND report.
 
 Further, DHS 
stated
 that the goal of the SPOT program is to identify 
individuals exhibiting behavior indicative of simple emotions su
ch as fear 
or stress
 and reroute them to a higher level of screening, and does not 
attempt to specifically identify persons engaging in lying or terroris
t acts. 
However, DHS 
also stated
 in its response that ﬁSPOT uses a broader 
array of indicators, including stress and fear detection as they relate to 
high
-stakes situations where the consequences are great, for exam
ple, 
suicide attack missions.ﬂ 
As noted in 
the
 report, TSA™s program and 
budget documents associated with behavior detection activities 
identify
 that the purpose of these activities is to identify high
-risk passengers 
based on behavioral indicators that indicate mal
-intent. For example, the 
strategic plan notes that in concert with other security measures, behavior 
detection activities ﬁmust be dedicated to finding individuals with the intent 
to do harm, as well as individuals with connections to terrorist networks 
                                                                                                                    
 107See 
GAO
-12-833. See also DHS™s Acquisition Management Directive 102
-01 and DHS 
Instruction Manual 102
-01-001.
    
 
 
 Page 53
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  that may be involved in criminal activity supporting terrorism.ﬂ 
The conclusions, which were confirmed in discussions with
 subje
ct matter 
experts and an independent review of studies, indicate that 
scientifically 
validated evidence does not support
 whether
 the use of behavioral 
indicators by unaided human observers
 can be used
 to identify 
passengers who may pose a threat to aviation security. 
 DHS also cited
 the National Research Council™s 2008 report to support its 
use of SPOT.
108 The National Research Council report, which we 
reviewed as part of our 2010 review of the SPOT program, noted
 that 
behavior and appearance monitoring might
 be able to play a useful role in 
counterterrorism efforts but also stated that a scientific consensus does 
not exist regarding whether any behavioral surveillance or physiological 
monitoring techniques are ready for use in the counterterrorist context
, 
given the present state of the science.
109 According to the National 
Research Council report, an information
-based program, such as a 
behavior detection program, should first determine if a scientific 

foundation exists and use scientifically valid criteria to evaluate its 

effectiveness before going forward. The report 
also stated
 that programs 
should have a sound experimental basis
, 
and documentation on the 
program™s effectiveness should be reviewed by an independent entity 
capable of evaluating the supporting scientific evidence.
  With regard to information provided related to profiling, DHS 
stated
 that 
DHS™s OIG completed an investigation at the request of TSA into 

allegations that surfaced at Boston Logan Airport and concluded that 
these allegatio
ns could not
 be substantiated. However, while 
the 
OIG™s 
July 2013 report of investigation on behavior detection officers in Boston 

concluded that ﬁthere was no indication that BDOs racially profiled 
passengers in order to meet production quotas,ﬂ the OIG™s report 
also
 stated that there was evidence of ﬁappearance profiling.ﬂ
110  
 In stating its nonconcurrence with 
the
 recommendation to limit future 
funding in support of its behavior detection activities, DHS 
stated
 that 
TSA™s overall security program is composed of interrelated parts, and to
 
disrupt one piece of the multilayered approach may have an adverse 
                                                                                                                    
 108National Research Council, 
Protecting Individual Privacy in the Struggle Against 
Terrorists: A Framework for Assessment.
 109GAO
-10-763. 
110Between August 2012 and October 2012, the OIG interviewed 73 BDOs who were 
currently or previously assigned to Boston Logan Airport.
    
 
 
 Page 54
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  impact on other pieces. Further, DHS 
stated
 that the behavior detection 
program should continue to be funded at current levels to allow BDOs to 
screen passengers while the optimization process 
proceeds. We 
disagree
. As noted in 
the
 report, TSA has not developed the performance 
measures that would allow it to assess the effectiveness of its behavior 
detection activities compared with
 other screening methods, such as 
physical screening. As a result, the impact of behavior detection activities 
on TSA™s overall security program is unknown. Further, 
not 
all screening 
methods are present at every airport
, 
and TSA has mod
ified the 
screening procedures and equipment used at airports over time. These 

modifications have included the discontinuance of screening equipment 
that was determined to be unneeded or ineffective.
  
Therefore, we continue to believe that providing scient
ifically validated 
evidence that demonstrates that behavioral indicators can be used to 
identify passengers who may pose a threat to aviation security is critical 

to the implementation of TSA™s behavior detection activities
. 
Further, 
OMB guidance highlights the importance of using resources on programs 

that have been rigorously evaluated and determined to be effective, and 

best practices for program management of acquisitions state that 
technologies should be demonstrated to work reliably in their intended 
environment prior to program deployment.
111 Consequently, we have 
added a matter for congressional consideration to this report to help 
ensure that 
TSA provides information, including scientifically validated 

evidence
, 
which
 supports the continued use of its
 behavior detection 
activities in identifying threats to aviation security
.  
 As agreed with your offices, unless you publicly announce the contents of 
this report earlier, we plan no further distribution until 5 days from the 

report date. 
We are sending
 copies of this report to the Secretary of 
Homeland Security; the TSA Administrator; the United States™ Attorney 

General; and interested congressional committees as appropriate
. In 

addition, the report is available at no charge on the GAO website at 
http:/
/www.gao.gov
.
                                                                                                                     
 111See 
OMB, 
Analytical Perspectives
ŠBudget of the U.S. Government, Fiscal Year 2014. 
See also, 
GAO
-12-833, DHS™s Acquisition Management Directive 102
-01, and DHS 
Instruction Manual 102
-01-001.
     
 
 
 Page 55
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  If you or your staff have any questions about this report, please contact 
me at (202) 512
-4379 or 
lords@gao.gov
. Contact points for our Offices of 
Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page 

of this report. 
Key contributors to this report
 are acknowledged in 
appendix VII
.   Stephen M. Lord
 Director, Home
land Security and Justice
     
        
 
 
 Page 56
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  List of Requesters
 The Honorable Michael T. McCaul
 Chairman
 The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson
 Ranking Member
 Committee on Homeland Security
 House of Representatives
 The Honorable John L. Mica
 Chairman
 Subcommittee on Government Operations
 Committee on Over
sight and Government Reform
 House of Representatives
 The Honorable Jeff Duncan
 Chairman
 Subcommittee on Oversight and Management Efficiency
 Committee on Homeland Security
 House of Representatives
 The Honorable Richard Hudson
 
Chairman
 The Honorable Cedric L. Richmond
 Ranking Member
 Subcommittee on Transportation Security
 Committee on Homeland Security
 House of Representatives
 The Honorable William R. Keating
 
House of Representatives
     Appendix I: Information on Recent Allegations 

of Passenger Profiling and TSA™s Actions to 
Address Such Allegations
  
 
 
 Page 57
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  According to the Screening of Passengers by Observation Techniques 
(SPOT) program™s standard operating procedures, behavior detection 
officers (BDO) must apply the SPOT behavioral indicators to passengers 
without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, ethnicity, sexual 
orientation, or disability.
1 Since 2010, the Transportation Security Administration (
TSA
) 
and the 
Department of Homeland Security™s (DHS) Office of Inspector General 
(OIG) have examined allegations of the use of profiling related to the 

race, ethnicity, or nationality of passengers by behavior detection officers 
(BDO
) at three
 airports
ŠNewark 
Liberty International Airport (Newark), 
Honolulu International Airport (Honolulu), and Boston Logan International 
Airport (Boston)
Šand TSA has taken action to address these allegations. 
Specifically, in January 2010, TSA concluded an internal investigation
 at 
Newark of allegations that BDOs used specific criteria related to the race, 

ethnicity, or nationality of passengers in order to select and search those 
passengers more extensively than would have occurred without the use 
of these criteria. The investig
ation was conducted by a team of two BDO 
managers from Boston to determine whether two BDO managers at 
Newark had established quotas for SPOT referrals to evaluate the 
performance of their subordinate BDOs.
2 The investigation also sought to 
determine whether these managers at Newark encouraged profiling of 
passengers in order to meet quotas that they had established. The 

investigating team concluded that no evidence existed to support the 
allegation of a quota system, but noted widespread BDO perception tha
t higher referral rates led to promotion, and that the ﬁoverwhelming majority 
of BDOsﬂ expressed concern that the BDO managers™ ﬁfocus was solely 
on increasing the number of referrals and LEO calls.ﬂ The investigating 
team said the information collected regarding the allegation of profiling 

resulted in a reasonable conclusion that that such activity was both 
directed and affected on a limited basis at Newark, based on one 
manager™s inappropriate direction to BDOs regarding profiling of 
                                                                                                                    
 1Pursuant to the SPOT standard operating procedures, race, color, r
eligion, national 
origin, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or disability may be considered if directed by a federal 
security director, provided such direction is based on specific intelligence threat 

information.
 2In its performance metrics plan, TSA recogni
zes the potential effect of management 
pressure as it relates to referral rates, and cautions against managers collecting data on 

the referral rates of individual BDOs because doing so may be misconstrued as a 

measure of performance, causing BDOs to increa
se their referrals.
 Appendix I: Information on Recent 
Allegatio
ns of Passenger Profiling 
and TSA™s 
Actions to Address Such Allegations
   Appendix I: Information on Recent Allegations 

of Pas
senger Profiling and TSA™s Actions to 
Address Such Allegations
  
 
 
 Page 58
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  passengers, racial co
mments, and the misuse of information intended for 
situational awareness purposes only.
3 According to TSA officials, 
disciplinary action taken against this manager resulted in the manager™s 
firing.
 Additionally, in 2011, TSA™s Office of Inspection (OOI) conducted an 

investigation of racial profiling allegations against BDOs at Honolulu. The 
investigation consisted of a review of Equal Employment Opportunity 
(EEO) complaints, and OOI did not find evidence to support the profiling 
allegations in the SPOT prog
ram.
4 In July 2012, 
OOI 
conducted a compliance inspection at Boston, during 
which allegations of profiling by BDOs surfaced. Specifically, during 
interviews with inspectors, allegations surfaced that BDOs were profiling 

passengers for the purpose of 
raising the number of law enforcement 
referrals. These accusations included written complaints from BDOs who 

claimed other BDOs were selecting passengers for referral screening 

based on their ethnic or racial appearance, rather than on the basis of the
 SPOT behavioral indicators
 and were reported in a September 2012 
OOI 
memorandum. These
 allegations
 were referred
 to the OIG, and in August 
2012, the OIG opened an investigation into these profiling allegations in 

Boston. According to OIG officials, its investigation was completed and its 
final report was provided to TSA in August 2013.
 In August 2012, the Secretary of Homeland Security issued a 

memorandum directing TSA to take a number of actions in response to 

allegations of racial profiling by BDOs. These actions include (1) a 
revision of the SPOT standard operating procedures to, among other 
things, clarify that passengers who are unwilling or uncomfortable with 

participating in an interactive discussion and responding to questions will 
not be pressured by B
DOs to do so; (2) refresher training fo
r all BDOs 
that reinforces antidiscrimination requirements; and (3) TSA 
                                                                                                                    
 3For example, the BDO manager directed BDOs to observe passengers™ passports at the 
travel document checker position for a lack of valid visas or entry stamps and refer 
passengers without valid visas or entry stamps for screening or dir
ectly contact the local 
law enforcement officer (LEO) or U.S. Customs and Border Protection officer. According 
to the inquiry report, it has never been the practice of the SPOT program to refer 
passengers on these criteria. 
 4The OIG reported to us that no
 formal report was written about the investigation in 
Honolulu.
   Appendix I: Information on Recent Allegations 

of Passeng
er Profiling and TSA™s Actions to 
Address Such Allegations
  
 
 
 Page 59
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  communication with BDO supervisors that performance appraisals should 
not depend on achieving either a high number of referrals or on the arrest 
rate coming from those referrals, but rather from demonstrated vigilance 
and skill in applying the SPOT 
procedures
. As of June 2013, TSA, 
together with the DHS Acting Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties 
and Counsel to the Secretary of Homeland Security, had completed 
several of these action items and others were under
 way. For example, 
the Secretary of Homeland Security sent a memo to all DHS component 
heads in April 2013 stating that it is DHS™s policy to prohibit the 
consideration of race or ethn
icity in DHS™s investigation, screening
, 
and enforcement activities in all but the most exceptional instances.
5 During our visits to four airports, we asked a random sample of 25 BDOs 
at the airports to what extent they had seen BDOs in their airport refer
ring 
passengers based on race, national origin, or appearance rather than 

behaviors. These responses are not generalizable to the entire BDO 
population at SPOT airports. Of the 25 randomly selected BDOs we 
interviewed, 20 said they had not witnessed profil
ing
, 
and 5 BDOs 
(including at least 1 from each of the four airports we visited) said that 
profiling was occurring at their airport
s, according to
 their personal 
observations. Also, 7 additional BDOs contacted us over the course of 
our review to express concern about the profiling of passengers that they 
had witnessed. We did not substantiate these specific claims.
 In an effort to further assess the race, sex, and national origin of 

passengers who were referred by BDOs for additional screening, we 
analyzed 
the available information in the SPOT referral database and the 
Federal Air Marshal Service™s (
FAMS
) 
Transportation Information Sharing 
                                                                                                                    
 5According to the DHS memorandum, ﬁ[i]t is the policy of DHS to prohibit the 
consideration of race or ethnicity in [its] daily law enforcement and screening activities in 
all but the most exceptional instances,ﬂ as defined in Department of Justice guidance. See 

United States Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, 
Guidance Regarding the Use of 
Race by Federal Law Enforcement Agencies
 (Washington, D.C.: June 2003). The 
memorandum continues
 by explaining that ﬁDHS personnel may use race or ethnicity only 
when a compelling governmental interest is present, and only in a way narrowly tailored to 

meet that compelling interest.ﬂ It further provides that ﬁrace
- or ethnicity
-based information 
that
 is specific to particular suspects or incidents, or ongoing criminal activities, schemes 
or enterprises, may be considered,ﬂ as stated in Department of Justice guidance.
   Appendix I: Information on Recent Allegations 

of Passenger P
rofiling and TSA™s Actions to 
Address Such Allegations
  
 
 
 Page 60
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  System (TISS) database.
6 However, we found that the SPOT referral 
database does not allow for the recording of information such as race or 
gender.
7 Without recording these data for every referral, it is difficult to 
disprove or substantiate such accusations. Since program
-wide data on 
race were not available in the SPOT database, we analyzed a subset of 
available arrest data that were entered into the TISS database, which 
allows for race to be recorded.
8 However, because there is not a unique 
identifier to link referrals from the SPOT database to information entered 
into TISS, we experienced obstacles when we attempted to ma
tch the 
two databases.
9 For the SPOT referrals we were able to match, we found 
that data on race were inconsistently recorded in TISS. The limitations 
associated with matching the two databases and the incompleteness of 

the race data in TISS made analyzing
 trends or anomalies in the data 
impractical.
 In March 2013, BDA officials stated that they 
had initiated a feasibility 
study to determine the efficacy of collecting data on the race and national 
                                                                                                                    
 6TISS is a law enforcement database maintained by TSA™s FAMS. BDOs are to complete 
a TISS incident report for any situations in which a LEO was involved. FAMS officials file 
reports related to the observation of suspicious activities and input this information, as well 
as incident reports submitted by airline employees and other individuals within the aviation 

domain, such as BDOs, into TISS. These data are to be shared with other federal, state, 
or local law enforcement agencies.
 7The August 2011 SPOT Privacy Impact Assessment Update states that SPOT referral 
reports do not contain 
personally identifiable information, but that if a passenger reaches a 
threshold requiring law enforcement intervention, then personally identifiable information 

may be collected by a BDO to compare against information in various intelligence or law 
enforc
ement databases.
 8Information collected and entered into TISS may include first, middle, and last names; 
aliases and nicknames; home and business addresses; employer information; Social 
Security numbers; other available identification numbers such as drive
r™s license or 
passport number; date of birth; nationality; age, sex, and race; height and weight; eye 

color; hair color, style, and length; and facial hair, scars, tattoos, and piercings; clothing 
(including colors and patterns); and eyewear.
 9TSA has taken steps to address these issues, including the October 2012 data audit of 
the SPOT database and has efforts underway to develop a new database that requires a 
one-time entry of SPOT referral data to populate multiple databases, including TISS. 
These changes will also create a unique identifier for SPOT referrals to allow officials to 
easily extract SPOT
-related data from TISS. According to a BDA official in August 2013, 
TSA anticipates that the development of a new database will begin in December 2013. 
Fur
ther, on an interim basis, TSA has developed guidance designed to help ensure that 
BDOs enter the SPOT referral number into the body of the corresponding TISS report, 
which can be identified through a database search.
   Appendix I: Information on Recent Allegations 

of Passenger Profi
ling and TSA™s Actions to 
Address Such Allegations
  
 
 
 Page 61
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  origin of passengers referred by BDOs. A pilot is to be conducted at 
approximately five airports, which have not yet been selected, to collect 
data and examine whether this type of data collection is feasible and if the 
data can be used to identify any airport
-specific or system
-wide trends in 
referrals. According to BDA officials, the purpose of this study is to 
examine whether disparities exist in the referral trends, and if so, whether 
these differences suggest discrimination or bias in the referral process. 

This pilot is to also include an analysis of the broader demographics of 
the flying public
Šnot just those referred by BDOs for additional 
screening
Šwhich is 
information that TSA had not previously collected. 
Having additional information on the characteristics of the flying public 

that may be used to compare t
o the characteristics of those passengers 
referred by the SPOT program
Šif TSA determines these data can 
feasibly be collected
Šcould help enable TSA to reach reasonable 

conclusions about whether allegations of passenger profiling can be 
substantiated.
   Appendix II: Our Analysis of Validation Study 

Data on SPOT Behavioral Indicators
 
 
 
 
 Page 62
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  The validation study reported that 14 of the 41 SPOT behavioral 
indicators 
were positively and significantly related to one or more of the 
study outcomes, but did not report that any of the indicators were 
negatively and significantly related to the outcome measures.
1 That is, 
passengers exhibiting the SPOT behaviors 
that
 were positively and 
significantly related were more likely to be arrested, to possess fraudulent 
documents, or possess prohibited or illegal items. Conversely, 
passengers exhibiting the behaviors 
that
 were negatively and significantly 
related were less likely to be arrested, to possess fraudulent documents, 
or possess serious prohibited or illegal item
s than those who did not 
exhibit the behavior. While recognizing that the SPOT referral data used 

in this analysis were potentially unreliable, we replicated the SPO
T indicator analysis with the full set of SPOT referral cases from January 1, 
2006, to October 31, 2010
, 
and found, consistent with the validation 
study, that 18 of the 41 behavioral indicators were positively and 
significantly related to one or more of the outcome measures.
2 We also 
found, however, that 20 of the 41 behavioral indicators were negatively 

and significantly related to one or more of the study outcomes
.3 That is, 
we identified 
20 SPOT behavioral indicators 
that were more commonly 
associated with passengers who were not identified as high
-risk 
passengers, than with passengers who were identified as high
-risk 
passengers. Of the 41 behavioral indicators in the analysis, almost 
half
 of 
the passengers referred by BDOs for referral screening exhibite
d one indicator
. 
                                                                                                                    
 1The validation study also stated that
 the remaining 27 of 41 indicators, or 66 percent, did 
not consistently relate to any outcome. However, this is inaccurate because our analysis 
indicates that 20 of the 41 indicators were negatively and significantly related to one or 

more of the study ind
icators. 
 2The number of positive and significant associations we detected was slightly larger than 
the number reported in the validation study largely because we report results from an 

analysis of the full sample of SPOT referrals, in contrast to the validation study, which 

used a split
-sample approach. In the validation study, a split
-sample approach
Šin which 
the study data were divided into two stratified random subsets and independent analyses 

were conducted on each subset
Šwas used, substantially diminishing the power to detect 
significant associations because the outcome data were sparse or rare events. 
 3Statistically significant at the 0.05 level. Some indicators that were positively and 
significantly related to one or more outcome measures were negatively and significantly 

related to other outcome measures. Five of the 41 indicators were unrelated to any of the 

outcome measures. 
 Appendix II: Our Analysis of Validation Study 
Data on SPOT Behavioral Indicators
   Appendix III: Objectives, Scope, and 

Methodology
  
 
 
 Page 63
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  This report addresses the following questions:
 1. To what extent does available evidence support the use of behavioral 
indicators to identify 
aviation
 security thr
eats?
 2. To what extent does TSA have data necessary to assess the 
effectiveness of the SPOT program in identifying threats to aviation 
security?
 In addition, this report provides information on TSA™s response to recent 
allegations of racial profiling in the SPOT program, which can be found in 

appendix I.
  To obtain background information and identify changes in the SPOT 

program since our May 2010 report, we conducted a literature search to 
identify relevant reports, studies, and articles on passenger screening and 
deceptive behavior detection
.1 We reviewed 
program documents in place 
during the period October 2010 through June 2013, including SPOT 
standard operating procedures, behavior detection officer performance 
standards and guidance, a strategic plan, and a performance metrics 
plan. We met with headquarters TSA and Behavior Detection and 

Analysis (BDA) program officials to determine the extent to which TSA 
had implemented recommendations in our May 2010 report and obtain an 
update on the SPOT program. In addition, we met with officials from U.S. 

Customs 
and Border Protection and the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
(FBI) Behavioral Science Unit to determine the extent to which they use 

behavior detection techniques. We also interviewed officials in DHS™s 
OIG, who were working on a related audit.
2 We analyz
ed data for fiscal years 2011 and 2012 from TSA™s SPOT 
referral database
, 
which is to record all incidents in which BDOs refer 
passengers for additional screening, including the airport, time and date 
of the referral, the names of the BDOs involved in the 
referral, BDOs™ 
observation of the passengers™ behaviors, and any actions taken by law 
                                                                                                                    
 1GAO, 
Aviation Security: Efforts to Validate TSA™s Screening Behavior Detection Program 
Underway, but Opportunities Exist to Strengthen Validation and Address Operational 
Challenges
, GAO
-10-763 
(Washington, D.C.: May 20, 2010).
 2DHS, Office of Inspector General, 
Transportation Security Administration™s Screening of 
Passen
gers by Observation Techniques,
 OIG
-13-91 (Washington, D.C.: May 29, 2013).
 Appendix III: Objectives, Scope, and 
Methodology 
Objectives 
Overview of Our 
Scope and 
Methodology 
  Appendix III: Objectives, Scope, and 

Methodology
  
 
 
 Page 64
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  enfo
rcement officers, if applicable.
3 We also analyzed data for fiscal years 
2011 and 2012 from the FAMS Transportation Information Sharing 
System
 (TISS) 
database, which
 is a law enforcement database designed 
to retrieve, assess, and disseminate intelligence information regarding 
transportation security to FAMS and other federal, state, and local law 
enforcement agencies.
4 We reviewed available documentation on these 
data
bases, such as user guides, data audit reports, and training 
materials, and interviewed individuals responsible for maintaining these 

systems. In addition, we analyzed data on BDOs working at airports 
during this 2
-year period, such as date started at TSA,
 date started as 
BDO, race, gender, and performance rating scores from TSA™s Office of 
Human Capital, and data on the number of hours worked by these BDOs 
provided by TSA™s Office of Security Operations officials and drawn from 
the U.S. Department of Agriculture™s National Finance Center database, 

which handles payroll and personnel data for TSA and other federal 
agencies. Further, we analyzed financial data from fiscal years 2007 
through 2012 provided by BDA to determine the expenditures associated 

with th
e SPOT program. Additional information about steps we took to 
assess the reliability of these data 
is discussed below. We interviewed 
BDA officials in the Office of Security Capabilities and the Office of 

Human Capital on the extent to which they collect and analyze these 
data.
 We conducted visits to four airports
ŠOrlando International in Orlando, 
Florida; Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County in Detroit, Michigan; Logan 
International in Boston, Massachusetts; and John F. Kennedy 

International in New York City,
 New York. We selected 
this nonprobability 
sample based on the airports™ 
size
 and participation in behavior detection 
                                                                                                                    
 3The SPOT referral database does not contain any personally identifiable information, 
such as the passenger™s name, home address, or driver™s license number. 
 4BDOs are to complete
 a TISS incident report for any situations in which a LEO was 
involved. FAMS officials file reports related to the observation of suspicious activities and 
input this information, as well as incident reports submitted by airline employees and other 

individ
uals within the aviation domain, such as BDOs, into TISS. According to the TISS 
Privacy Impact Assessment, data collected include the passengers™ names, home and 

business addresses, race, nationality, age, eye color, and identification numbers, such as 

dri
ver™s license numbers, Social Security numbers, and passport numbers.
   Appendix III: Objectives, Scope, and 

Methodology
  
 
 
 Page 65
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  programs.
5 As part of our visits, we interviewed a total of 25 BDOs using 
a semi
-structured questionnaire, and their responses are not 
gen
eralizable to the entire BDO population at SPOT airports. These 
BDOs were randomly selected from a list of BDOs on duty at the time of 
our visit. We interviewed BDO managers and
 TSA airport managers, such 
as federal security directors, who oversee the SPOT
 program at the 
airports. In addition, to obtain law enforcement officials™ perspectives on 

the SPOT program and their experiences in responding to SPOT 
referrals, we interviewed officials from the local airport law enforcement 

agency with jurisdiction at the four airports we visited (Orlando Police 
Department, Wayne County Airport Authority, Massachusetts State 
Police, and Port Authority of New York and New Jersey) and federal law 

enforcement officials assigned to the airports, including U.S. Customs 
and Border Protection, the FBI, and U.S. Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement. In nonprobability sampling, a sample is selected from 

knowledge of the population™s characteristics or from a subset of a 
population where some units in the population have no chance,
 or an 
unknown chance, of being selected. A nonprobability sample may be 
appropriate to provide illustrative examples, or to provide some 
information on a specific group within a population, but it cannot be used 
to make inferences about a population or generalize about the population 

from which the sample is taken. The results of our visits and interviews 
provided perspectives about the effectiveness of the SPOT program from 
local airport officials and opportunities to independently observe TSA™s 

behavior 
detection activities at airports, among other things.
  To assess the soundness of the methodology and conclusions in the DHS 

April 2011 validation study, we reviewed the validation study and 
Technical Advisory Committee (
TAC
) 
final report
s and appendixes, and 
other documents, such as the contractor™s proposed study designs, 
contracts to conduct the study, data collection training materials, and 
interim reports on data monitoring visits and study results. We assessed 

these efforts with established practices in designing evaluations and 
                                                                                                                    
 5At the time we selected these four airports in mid
-2012, both Logan and Detroit airports 
were participating in Assessor, a pilot program wherein specially trained BDOs perform 
travel document check screening and interviews with 100 percent of passengers, and 

refer suspect passengers to checkpoint personnel for additional action.
 Validation Study
   Appendix III: Objectives, Scope, and 

Methodology
  
 
 
 Page 66
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  generally accepted statistical principles.
6 We obtained the validation study 
datasets from the contractor and replicated several of the analyses, 
based on the methodology described in the final report. General
ly, we 
replicated the study™s split
-sample analyses, and as an extra step, 
extended those analyses using the full sample of SPOT referral data, as 

discussed below and in appendix II. In addition, we interviewed 

headquarters TSA, BDA, and Science and Techno
logy Directorate (S&T) 
officials responsible for the validation study, representatives from the 
contractor who conducted the study, and 8 of the 12 members of the 
TAC
 who commented on and evaluated the adequacy of the validation study 
and issued a separate
 report in June 2011.
7  To assess the reliability of the SPOT referral data, we reviewed relevant 
documentation, including privacy impact assessments and a 2012 data 
audit of the SPOT database, and interviewed TSA and BDA headquarters 
and field officials about the controls in place to maintain the integrity of 
the data. To determine the extent to which the SPOT database is 
accurate and complete, we reviewed the data in accordance with 
established procedures for assessing data reliability and conducted tests, 

such as electronic tests to determine if there were anomalies in the 
dataset (such as out
-of-range dates and missing data) and reviewed a 
sample of certain coded data fields and compared them with narrative 
information in the open text 
fields.
8 We determined that the data for fiscal 
                                                                                                                    
 6GAO. 
Designing Evaluations: 2012 Revision
, GAO
-12-208G 
(Washington, D.C.: Jan. 31, 
2012). This report addresses the logic of program evaluation design and generally 
accepted statistical principles, and describes different types of evaluations for answering 

varied questions about program performance, the pro
cess of designing evaluation studies, 
and key issues to consider toward ensuring overall study quality. This report is one of a 

series of papers whose purpose is to provide guides to various aspects of audit and 

evaluation methodology and indicate where more detailed information is available. It is 
based on GAO reports and program evaluation literature. To ensure the guide™s 
competence and usefulness, drafts were reviewed by selected GAO, federal, and state 

agency evaluators, and evaluation authors and practitioners from professional consulting 
firms. This publication supersedes 
Government Operations: Designing Evaluations
, GAO/PEMD
-10.1.4 
(Washington, D.C.: May 1, 1991).
 7We made an effort to interview all 12 TAC members. However, 1 said she attended the 
meeting but did not participate in the assessment, 1 declined to meet with us because of 

his position with the President™s administration, and 2 did not respond after numerous 
attempts to contact t
hem.
 8GAO
, Assessing the Reliability of Computer Processed Data
, GAO
-09-680G 
(Washington, D.C.: July 1, 2009).
 Data Reliability
   Appendix III: Objectives, Scope, and 

Methodology
  
 
 
 Page 67
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  years 2011 and 2012 across the 49 airports in our scope were sufficiently 
reliable for us to use to reflect the total number of SPOT referrals and 
arrests made, and to standardize the referral and arrest data, based on 
the number of hours each BDO spent performing operational SPOT 
activities.
9 In October 2012, TSA completed an audit of the data contained in the 
SPOT referral database 
in which
 it identified common errors, such as 
missing data fields and incorrect point totals. According to the 2012 audit, 
for the time period of March 1, 2010, through August 31, 2012, covering 
more than 108,000 referrals, the SPOT referral database had an overall 
error rate of 7.96 percent, which represented more than 8,600 known
 
errors and more than 14,000 potential errors. According to TSA, the 
agency has begun taking steps to reduce this error rate, including visits to 
airports with significant data integrity issues and the development of a 

new SPOT referral database that is designed to prevent the most 
common errors from occurring. BDA officials told us that they
 have begun 
steps toward
 a nationwide rollout of their new system in May 2013, which 
includes pilots and developing procedures to mandate airports™ use of the 

system. O
n the basis of
 our review of the types of errors identified by the 
data audit, we determined that the SPOT referral data 
were
 sufficiently 
reliable for us to analyze BDO referral rates. However, the audit identifies 

probl
ems with arrest data, which is one 
of the three
 categories of 
ﬁpotential errors.ﬂ The audit does not report on the magnitude of this error 
category, because identifying these errors requires a manual audit of the 
data at the airport level. As a result, we determined that the arrest data 
wer
e 
not reliable enough for us to report on details about the arrests.
 To determine the extent to which available evidence exists to support the 

use of behavioral indicators to identify security threats, we analyzed 

research on behavioral indicators, reviewed the validation study findings 
on behavioral indicators, and analyzed SPOT referral data.
 Working from a literature review of articles from 2003 to 2013 
that
 were 
identified using search terms such as ﬁbehavior detection deception,ﬂ and 
discussions with researchers who had published articles in this area, we 

contacted other researchers to interview and academic and government 
                                                                                                                    
 9Time charged to other activities, such as leave, baggage screening, or cargo inspection
 activities was excluded. 
 Use of Behavioral 
Indicators 
Research on Behavioral 
Indicators 
  Appendix III: Objectives, Scope, and 

Methodology
  
 
 
 Page 68
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  research to review.
10 While the results of our interviews cannot be 
used to 
generalize about all research on behavior deception detection, they 
represent a mix of researchers and views by virtue of their affiliation with 

various academic institutions and governments, authorship of meta
-analyses on these issues, and subject
 matter expertise in particular 
research areas.
 We also reviewed more than 40 articles and books on behavior
-based 
deception detection dating from 1999 to 2013. These articles, books, and 
reports were identified by our literature search of databases, such 
as 
ArticleFirst, ECO, WorldCat, ProQuest, and Academic One File and 
recommendations by TSA and the experts we interviewed. Through our 

discussions and research, we identified four meta
-analyses, which used 
an approach for statistically cumulating the resul
ts of several studies to 
answer questions about program impacts. These meta
-analyses analyzed 
ﬁeffect sizesﬂ across several studies
Šthe measure of the difference in 
outcome between a treatment group and a comparison group.
11 For 
example, these meta
-analyses
 measured the accuracy of an individual™s 
deception judgments when assessing another individual™s credibility in 

terms of the percentage that lies and truths were correctly classified and 

the impact of various factors on the accuracy of deception judgments
, such as the liar™s motivation or expertise of the individual making the 

judgment. We reviewed the methodologies of 4 meta
-analyses covering 
over 400 separate studies on detection deception over a 60
-year period, 
including whether an appropriate evaluation approach was selected for 

each meta
-analysis, and whether the data were collected and analyzed in 
ways that allowed valid conclusions to be drawn, in accordance with 
established practices in evaluation design.
12 In addition, we interviewed 
two authors of 
these m
eta
-analyses to ensure that the analyses
 were 
sound and we determined that the analyses were sufficiently reliable for 
describing what evidence existed to support the use of behavioral 

indicators to identify security threats. We determine
d 
that the 
research we 
identified was sufficiently reliable for describing the evidence that existed 

regarding the use of behavioral indicators to identify security threats. 
                                                                                                                    
 10We interviewed Charles F. Bond, Jr.; Judee K. Burgoon; Aaron C. Elkins; Pär Anders 
Granhag; Maria Hartwig; Charles R. Honts; Jay F. Nunamaker; Nathan W. Twyman; and 
Aldert Vrij.
 11GAO
-12-208G. 
12GAO
-12-208G. 
  Appendix III: Objectives, Scope, and 

Methodology
  
 
 
 Page 69
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  Further, we reviewed documents developed by TSA and other foreign 
countries as part of an international study group to assess TSA™s efforts 
to identify best practices on the use of behavioral detection in an airport 
environment.
  To assess the soundness of the methodology and conclusions in the April 
2011 validation study finding that 14 of the 41 SPOT indicators were 
related to outcomes that indicate a possible threat, we reviewed evidence 
supporting our May 2010 conclusions that the SPOT referral database 

lacked controls to help ensure the completeness
 and accuracy of the 
data. We interviewed TSA officials and obtained documentation, such as 

a data audit report and 
a functional requirements document, to determine 
the extent to which problems in the SPOT database were being 
addressed. We also reviewed th
e June 2011 TAC final report and 
interviewed contractor officials regarding analysis limitations because of 

data sparseness, or low frequency of occurrences of indicators in the 
SPOT database.
 We also obtained the dataset used in the study
ŠSPOT referral 
data from 
January 2006 through October 2010
Šand replicated the SPOT indicator 
analyses described in the study. Although we found that the data were 

not sufficiently reliable for use in conducting a statistical analysis of the 
association between the indicators and high
-risk passenger outcomes, we 
used the data to assess the study™s methodology and conclusions. The 
dataset included a total of 247,630 SPOT referrals from 175 airports. As 
described in the validation study, we calculated whether the odds on eac
h of the four study outcome measures
ŠLEO
 arrest, possession of 
fraudulent documents, possession of a serious prohibited or illegal item, 

or the combination of all three measures
Šwere associated with the 41 
SPOT indicators. These odd ratios were derived fro
m four sets of 41 
separate cross
-tabulations
Š2 x 2 tables
Šin which each of the four 
outcomes is cross
-classified by each of the 41 individual indicators. Odds 
ratios greater than 1.0 indicate positive associations, that is, passengers 

exhibiting the behavi
or were more likely to be arrested, to possess 
fraudulent documents, or to possess serious prohibited or illegal items. 

On the other hand, odds ratios of less than 1.0 indicate negative 

associations, that is, passengers exhibiting the behavior were less li
kely 
to be arrested, to possess fraudulent documents, or to possess serious 

prohibited or illegal items than those who do not
 exhibit the behavior. The 
number of positive and significant associations we detected was slightly 
larger than the number reported
 in the validation study mainly because 
we reported results from an analysis of the full sample of SPOT 
Validation Study Results 
on SPOT Indicators
   Appendix III: Objectives, Scope, and 

Methodology
  
 
 
 Page 70
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  referrals
Ša total of 247,630 SPOT passenger referrals. In contrast, the 
validation study stated that a split
-sample approach was used, in which 
each years™ dataset 
was
 split into two stratified random subsets across 
the years and analyses were conducted independently on each 
aggregated subset. The validation study stated that this approach allowed 
an examination of the extent to which results may vary across each 
subset and to address possible random associations in the data. The 

validation study further stated that this was important because changes in 
the SPOT program, such as fewer airports and BDOs involved in the 
earlier years and small changes to the
 SPOT instrument in March 2009, 
could have affected the analyses. However, after replicating the split
-sample approach, we determined that it was not the most appropriate one 

to use because it substantially diminished the power to detect significant 

associ
ations in light of how infrequently referrals occurred. We report the 
results of our analyses of the full sample of SPOT referrals that indicate 

behavioral indicators that are positively and significantly related, as well 

as negatively and significantly related, in the behavioral indicator section 
of the report and in appendix II.
  To determine the extent to which SPOT referrals varied by BDOs across 
airports for fiscal years 2011 and 2012, we initially selected the 50 

airports identified by TSA™s May 2012 Current Airports Threat 
Assessment report as having the highest probability of threat from 
terrorist attacks. We chose to limit the scope of our review to the top 50 

airports because 
the majority
 of the BDOs are 
deployed to these airpor
ts; 
and they account for 68 percent of the passenger throughput, and 75 
percent of SPOT referrals. To standardize the referral rates across 

airports, we calculated the number of SPOT referrals by individual BDOs 
and matched these BDOs by the number of hours that particular BDOs 
spent performing SPOT activities.
13 San Francisco International Airport 
was in the initial selection of 50 airports; however, we excluded San 
Francisco International because the hourly data provided to us for San 

Francisco BDOs, who are managed by a screening contractor, were not 
                                                                                                                    
 13The SPOT referral report contains three fields to enter the names of BDO team 
members who were involved in the referral. According to TSA officials, the BDO™s name 
entered on the first data field is the BDO who first observed the behavioral indicators and 

is typically the BDO who is considered responsible for the referral.
 SPOT Referral Data
   Appendix III: 
Objectives, Scope, and 
Methodology
  
 
 
 Page 71
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  comparable 
with
 the hourly data provided to us for TSA
-managed 
BDOs.
14 The scope of our analysis was then 49 SPOT airports.
 To calculate BDO hours spent performing SPOT activities, we analyzed 
BDO time and attendance data provided by TSA for fiscal years 2011 and 
2012 from the U.S. Department of Agriculture™s National Finance Center. 

We limited our analysis to the hours BDOs spent performing SPOT 
activities because it is primarily during these times that BDOs ma
ke 
SPOT referrals. Thus, BDO hours charged to activities such as leave, 
baggage screening, or cargo inspection activities were excluded. For 
example, we found that BDOs had charged time to cargo inspection 
activities that were unrelated to the SPOT program
. These inspections 
are carried out under TSA™s Compliance Division in the Office of Security 
Operations, and are designed to ensure compliance with transportation 
security regulations. We also limited our analysis to nonmanager BDOs, 

as managers are not regularly engaged in making referrals. Finally, about 
55 BDOs, or about 2 percent of the approximately 2,400 BDOs (including 
both managers and nonmanagers), were not included in our analysis 

because we could not reconcile their names with time and attendanc
e data after several attempts with TSA officials. We calculated average 

referral rates per 160 hours worked, or about 
4 
40-hour weeks, across 
2,199 BDOs working at 49 airports, and a referral rate for each airport.
 To better understand the variation in referral rates, we conducted a 

multivariate analysis to determine whether certain variables affected 
SPOT referral rates and LEO referral rates, including airports at which 
BDOs worked during fiscal years 2011 and 2012; BDO annual 

performance scores for 2011 and 2012; years of experience with TSA 
and as a BDO; and demographic information on BDOs, such as age, 
gender, race, and highest educational level attained at the time of 

employment. Although multivariate methods do not allow us to establish 
that referral rates are causally related to the BDO characteristics we had 
information about, they allowed us to examine the associations between 

referral rates and the different specific BDO
s while controlling for other 
BDO characteristics, including the airport
s in wh
ich the BDO
s 
worked. 
                                                                                                                    
 14At airports participating in TSA™s Screening Partnership Program, private companies 
under contract to TSA perform screening functions with TSA supervision and in 
accordance with TSA standard operating procedures. See 49 U.S.C. § 44920. At these 
airports, private sector screeners, and not TSA employees, have
 responsibility for 
screening passengers and their property, including the behavior detection function.
   Appendix III: Objectives, Scope, and 

Methodology
  
 
 
 Page 72
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  Moreover, the methods we employed allowed us to determine whether 
the observed differences in the sample data were different more than by 
merely chance fluctuations. Our statistical models and estimates are 
sensi
tive to our choice of v
ariables;
 thus
, 
researchers testing different 
variables may find different results. See appendix IV for additional 
information on the results of our analyses.
  To determine the extent to which TSA has data necessary to
 assess the 
effectiveness of the SPOT program in identifying threats to aviation 
security, we reviewed the validation study™s findings comparing 
passengers selected by SPOT with randomly selected passengers, 
analyzed TSA plans and analyses designed to measure SPOT™s 

effectiveness, and analyzed data on SPOT referrals and LEO arrests.
  To assess the soundness of the methodology and conclusions in the April 

2011 validation study findings that SPOT was more likely to identify high
-risk passengers than a random selection of passengers, we assessed the 

study design and implementation against established practices for 
designing evaluations and generally accepted statis
tical principles. These 
practices include, for example, probability sample methods, data 
collection and monitoring procedures, and quasi
-experimental design.
15 We obtained the validation study datasets and replicated the study 
findings, based on the methodo
logy described in the final report. Further, 
we analyzed the validation study data from December 1, 2009, to October 
31, 2010
, 
on passengers who were referred to a LEO and who were 
ultimately arrested. To the extent possible, we reviewed SPOT data to 
deter
mine the reasons for the arrest and if there were differences 
between arrested passengers who were referred by SPOT and arrested 
passengers who were randomly selected.
  To determine the extent to which TSA has plans to collect and ana
lyze 

performance data to assess SPOT™s overall effectiveness, we reviewed 
TSA™s efforts to inform the future direction of BDA and the
 SPOT 
program, such as a return
-on-investment and risk
-based allocation 
analyses. We evaluated TSA™s efforts against DHS, GAO, and other 
                                                                                                                    
 15GAO
-12-208G. 
Data to Assess 
Effectiveness of SPOT
 Validation Study Results 
Comparin
g Passengers 

Selected by SPOT with
 Randomly Selected 

Passengers
 TSA Performance Data
   Appendix III: Objectives, Scop
e, and 
Methodology
  
 
 
 Page 73
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  guidance regarding these analyses.
16 For example, we reviewed TSA™s 
return
-on-investment analysis against the analytical standards in the 
Office of Management and Budget™s Circular A
-94, which provides 
guidance on conducting benefit
-cost and c
ost
-effectiveness analyses.
17 We also reviewed documentation associated with program oversight, 
including a 2012 performance metrics plan
, and evaluated TSA™s efforts 
to collect and analyze data to provide oversight of BDA and the SPOT 

program against crite
ria in Office of Management and Budget guidance 
and Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government
.18 Further, 
we reviewed performance work statements in TSA contracts to determine 

the extent to which the contractor™s work is to fulfill the tasks 
in TSA™s 
performance metrics plan. Also, we reviewed 
FAMS
 law enforcement 
reports, TISS incident reports, and the SPOT referral database to 
determine the extent to which information from BDO referrals 
was
 used 
for further investigation to identify potential ties to terrorist investigations. 

We also analyzed SPOT referral data that TSA uses to track SPOT 

program activities, including the number of passengers who were referred 
to a LEO and ultimately arrested for fiscal years 2011 and 2012.
  To provide information about how TSA and DHS™s OIG have examined 
allegations of racial and other types of profiling of passengers by BDOs, 

we reviewed documentation from 2010 to 2013, such as investigation 
reports, privacy impact assessments, BDO training materials, and TSA 
                                                                                                                    
 16See, for example, DHS, 
National Infrastructure Protection Plan: Partnering to 
Enhance 
Protection and Resiliency
 (Washington, D.C.: 2009); GAO, 
Streamlining Government: Key 
Practices from Select Efficiency Initiatives Should Be Shared Governmentwide
, GAO
-11-908 (Washington, D.C.: Sept. 30, 2011); and Office of Management and Budget 
(OMB) Circular
-A-94, 
Memorandum For Heads of the Executive Departments and 
Establishments on Guidelines and Discount Rates for Benefit Cost Analysis of Federal 

Programs
 (Washington, D.C.: Oct. 29, 1992
). 
17This guidance states that estimates that differ from expected values (such as worst
-case 
estimates) may be provided in addition to expected values, but the rationale for such 
estimates must be clearly presented. For any such estimate, the analysis shou
ld identify 
the nature and magnitude of any bias. 
 18GAO, 
Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government
, GAO/AIMD
-00-21.3.1
 (Washington, D.C.: Nov. 1, 1999). 
 Profiling Allega
tions 
  Appendix III: Objectives, Scope, and 

Methodology
  
 
 
 Page 74
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  memos.
19 To explore the extent to which we could determine the race, 
gender, and national origin of passengers who were referred by BDOs for 
additional screening, we analyzed information in the SPOT referral 

database and the TISS database for fiscal years 2011 and 2012. We 
reviewed a September 2012 TSA contract 
that
 will, among other things, 
study whether any evidence exists for racial or ethnic profiling in the 
SPOT program. We also reviewed interim reports produced by the 
contractor as of June 2013. Because racial profiling allegations in Boston 
were made during the course of our review, we asked the random sample 

of 25 BDOs at the four airports we visited to what extent they had seen 
BDOs in their airport referring passengers based on race, national origin, 
or appearance rather than behaviors. These responses are n
ot 

generalizable to the entire BDO population at SPOT airports. Further, 7 
additional BDOs contacted us over the course of our review to express 
concern about the profiling of passengers that they had witnessed. We 

did not substantiate these specific claims. We also interviewed TSA 
headquarter
s and field officials, such as federal security directors and 
BDO managers, as well as DHS OIG officials.
 We conducted this performance audit from April 2012 to 
November
 2013 
in accordance with generally accepted gover
nment auditing standards. 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain 

sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our 
findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe the 

evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our findings and 
conclusions based on our audit objectives.
                                                                                                                     
 19As required by the E
-Gove
rnment Act of 2002, Pub. L. No. 107
-347, § 208, 116 Stat. 
2899, 2921
-23, agencies that collect, maintain, or disseminate information that is in an 
identifiable form must conduct a privacy impact assessment that addresses, among other 
things, the information to be collected, why it is being collected, intended uses of the 

information, with whom it will be shared, and how it will be secured.
   Appendix IV: Characteristics and Referral 
Rates of Behavior Detection Officers at 49 

SPOT Airports
  
 
  Page 75
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  To better understand the variation in referral rates, we analyzed whether 
certain variables affected SPOT referral rates and LEO referral rates, 
including BDO characteristics, such as average performance scores for 
fiscal years 2011 and 2012, years of TSA and BDO experience, age, 

gender, educational level, years employed at TSA and as a BDO, and 
race, as well as the airport in which the BDOs worked. As described 
earlier, these analyses standardized SPOT referral data for 2,199 BDOs 

across 49 airports for fiscal years 2011 and 2012.
  The characteristics of the 2,199 BDOs in our analyses varied across 

different
 categories, as shown in table 
3. About 51 percent of the BDOs 
were under 40 years of age
, 
and slightly more than 25 percent were 50 
years or older. Nearly 64 p
ercent of the BDOs joined TSA before the end 

of 2005, but the majority, or more than 85 percent, became BDOs after 
the beginning of 2008. Nearly 65 percent of the BDOs were male. Fifty 

percent were white, about 26 percent were African
-American, and about 
18 percent were Hispanic. About 65 percent of the BDOs had a high 
school education or less.
1 The BDOs were distributed unevenly across 
airpo
rts
, with the largest numbers in Logan International (Boston), Dallas
-Fort Worth International, John F. Kennedy International (New York), Los 

Angeles International, and O™Hare International (Chicago)
. 
Each BDO 
worked primarily in one airport during the 2
-year period. For example, 80 
of th
e 2,199
 BDOs
, 
or about 4 percent, 
worked in multiple airports and the 
remaining 2,11
9 
BDOs,
 or 96 percent
, 
worked at one
 airport during the 2
-year time period.
   
                                                                                                                      
 1Pursuant to TSA regulations, a screener must have a high school diploma, a general 
equivalency diploma, or a combination of education and experience that the TSA has 
determined to be sufficient for the individual to perform the duties of the position. See 49 

C.F.R. § 1544.405(d).
 Appendix IV: Characteristics
 and Referral 
Rates 
of Behavior Detection Officers at 49 
SPOT Airports
 BDO Characteristics 
and 
Referral Rates
   Appendix IV: Characteristics and
 Referral 
Rates of Behavior Detection Officers at 49 
SPOT Airports
  
 
  Page 76
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  Table 3
: Average Screening of Passengers by Observation Techniques (SPOT) Referral Rates and Law Enforcement Official 
(LEO) Referral Rates at 49 Airports, by Behavior Detection
 Officer (BDO) Characteristics and Airport, Fiscal Years 2011 and 
2012 BDO characteristic
 Category
 Number of BDOs
 Percentage 
 of total BDOs
 Average Performance Accountability and 
Standards System (PASS) scores for 2011 and 
2012a Quintile 1
 (33.40
Œ82.95)
 409 18.6
 Quintile 2
 (83.05
Œ88.95)
 409 18.6
 Quintile 3
 (89.00
Œ93.40)
 405 18.4
  Quintile 4
 (93.50
Œ97.45)
 395 18.0
  Quintile 5
 (97.50
Œ105.00)
 428 19.5
  Missing data
 153 7.0
 Age
 Under 30 years old
 377 17.1
  30 to 39 years old
 737 33.5
  40 to 49 years
 old
 499 22.7
  50 years and older
 586 26.6
 Year began employment as BDO
  2005 to 2007
 323 14.7
  2008 to 2009
 1,330
 60.5
  2010 to 2012
 546 24.8
 Year began employment with TSA 
 2002 to 2003
 886 40.3
 2004 to 2005
 518 23.6
 2006 to 2007
 539 24.5
 2008 to 2012
 256 11.6
 Gender
 Female
 763 34.7
  Male
 1,436
 65.3
 Race
 African-
American
 561 25.5
  Asian 
 117 5.3
  Hawaiian
-Pacific Islander
 7 
0.3
  Hispanic 
 386 17.6
  Indian Alaskan Native 
 21 1.0
  White 
 1,101
 50.1
  Two or more races 
 5 
0.2
  Did not
 report race
 1 
0.0
 Level of education at time of hire by TSA
 High school or less
 1,436
 65.3
 Some college
 512 23.3
   Appendix IV: Characteristics and Referral 
Rates of Behavior Detection Officers at 49 

SPOT Airports
  
 
  Page 77
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  BDO characteristic
 Category
 Number of BDOs
 Percentage 
 of total BDOs
 College graduate 
 251 11.4
 Airport where BDO worked
 Airport 1
 19 0.9
  Airport 2
 20 0.9
  Airport 3
 72 3.3
  Airport 4
 11 0.5
  Airport 5 
9 
0.4
  Airport 6
 89 4.0
  Airport 7
 15 0.7
  Airport 8
 50 2.3
  Airport 9 
27 1.2
  Airport 10
 46 2.1
  Airport 11
 19 0.9
  Airport 12
 30 1.4
  Airport 13
 44 2.0
  Airport 14
 64 2.9
  Airport 15
 86 3.9
  Airport 16
 49 2.2
  Airport 17
 72 3.3
  Airport 18
 55 2.5
  Airport 19
 8 
0.4
  Airport 20
 12 0.5
  Airport 21
 33 1.5
  Airport 22
 53 2.4
  Airport 23
 70 3.2
  Airport 24
 30 1.4
  Airport 25
 18 0.8
  Airport 26
 99 4.5
  Airport 27
 70 3.2
  Airport 28
 104 4.7
  Airport 29
 65 3.0
  Airport 30
 63 2.9
  Airport 31
 31 1.4
  Airport 32
 21 1.0
  Airport 33
 19 0.9
  Airport 34
 59 2.7
  Airport 35
 16 0.7
   Appendix IV: Characteristics and Referral 
Rates of Behavior Detection Officers at 49 

SPOT Airports
  
 
  Page 78
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  BDO characteristic
 Category
 Number of BDOs
 Percentage 
 of total BDOs
  Airport 36
 63 2.9
  Airport 37
 99 4.5
  Airport 38
 33 1.5
  Airport 39
 69 3.1
  Airport 40
 58 2.6
  Airport 41
 23 1.0
  Airport 42
 25 1.1
  Airport 43
 36 1.6
  Airport 44
 10 0.5
  Airport 45
 51 2.3
  Airport 46
 21 1.0
  Airport 47
 27 1.2
  Airport 48
 35 1.6
  Airport 49
 21 1.0
  Multiple airports
b 80 3.6
 Total
  2,199
 100 Source: GAO analysis of TSA data.
 aBDOs and other transportation 
security
 officers™ performance 
is rated annually using a point scoring 
system under PASS, TSA™s pay
-for
-performance system.
 bThe numbers are BDOs who worked at more than 1 airport during fiscal years 2011 and 2012.
  Overall, BDOs averaged about 1.57 SPOT referrals
 and 0.22 LEO 
referrals per 160 hours worked. These rates vary across the different 
BDO categories. However, these differences should be considered 

cautiously, as differences that appear to exist across categories for one 
characteristic may be confounded with differences across others
. For 
example, the apparent difference in referral rates between younger and 
older BDOs may be the result of younger BDOs working 
disproportionately in airports with higher referral rates
.     Appendix IV: Characteristics and Referral 
Rates of Behavior Detection Officers at 49 

SPOT Airports
  
 
  Page 79
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  To better understand the effects of BDO characteristics, including the 
airports they worked in, on SPOT referral and LEO referral rates, we 
condu
cted simple regression analyses
.2 Overall, 
the greatest amount
 of 
the variation in BDO SPOT r
eferral rates 
was
 explained
 by the airport at 
which the referral occurred. That is, the BDO™s referral rate was 
associated substantially with the airport at which he or she was 

conducting SPOT activities
. 
A number of BDO char
acteristics
 were significantly related to the rate of 
SPOT referrals, both before and after adjustment, or in both bivariate and 
multivariate models. For example, in multivariate model 2
Šthe model 
fully adjusted for both BDO characteristics and airport
ŠBDOs with higher 
PASS scores had s
ignificantly higher rates of SPOT referrals than those 
with lower PASS scores
. 
Other differences, such as BDOs™ level of 
education at the time of hire, were not significantly related to the rate of 
referrals, after controlling for other factors. 
BDO charac
teristics
Œapart 
from the airport in which they worked
Œdid 
not account for much of the 
variation in SPOT referral rates across BDOs. The R
2 values, or 
coefficients of determination, indicate that none of 
the BDO 
characteristics 
individually account for more
 than about 1 percent of 
that 
variation, and all of these 
characteristics
 collectively account for 3 percent 
of the variation in SPOT referral rates across BDOs. In contrast, 

differences 
in airports were highly significant, even after adjusting for 
differe
nces in BDO characteristics. 
For example, BDOs in 2 airports had 
significantly higher average SPOT referral rates than BDOs in the referent 
category, by 3.31 and 1.17 referrals per 160 hours worked, respectively. 
Overall, while other BDO characteri
stics co
llectively account for a small
 percent
age
 of the variation in average SPOT referral rates, the airport in 
which the BDO worked accounted for a much larger percent
age
 of the 
variation
. 
The results for LEO referrals were roughly similar to those for SPOT 
ref
errals, with a few minor 
differences
. For example, in contrast to the 
average rate for SPOT referral analyses, the average rate of LEO 
referrals was unrelated to the length of service as a BDO. However, as 
with the SPOT referral analyses, airports were
 hig
hly significant
, with 
                                                                                                                    
 2These analyses show the size and significance of regression coefficients, from ordinary 
leas
t-
squares regression models, which reflect the estimated differences in the average 
number of SPOT referrals and LEO referrals across categories of BDO, and across 
airports.
  
Multivariate Analysis of 
SPOT and LEO Referral 
Rates
   Appendix IV: Characteristics and Referral 
Rates of Behavior Detection Officers at 49 

SPOT Airports
  
 
  Page 80
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
  BDOs in a few airports averaging significantly higher rates of referrals 
than BDOs in the referent category, and BDOs in most of the other 
airports averaging significantly lower LEO referral rates. Because they 
were less common, LEO referrals may have been more difficult to predict 

that SPOT referrals. Differences in the other BDO characteristics
Šmultivariate mode
l 1Šcollectively accounted for a small
 percent
age
 of the 
variatio
n in average LEO referral rates, while differences across 
airports 
accounted for a larger percent
age
.  
 Separate analyses we conducted revealed that the sizeable and highly 

significant differences in SPOT referral rates and LEO referral rates 
across airports were not fully accounted for by differences in the number 

of passengers who pass through airport checkpoints
.Airport Throughput 
Analysis
   Appendix V: TSA™s Performance Metrics for 

Behavior Detection and Analysis
 
 
 
 
 Page 81
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
 Table 4
 shows TSA™s proposed performance metrics as detailed in 
appendix G in its Behavior Detection and Analysis performance metrics 
plan dated November 2012.
 Table 4
: Transportation 
Security Administration™s (TSA)
 Proposed Performance Metrics, November 2012
 Category/subcategory
 Metric
 Description
 Human capital management
 Operational
 management
 Percent checkpoint 
coverage
 The percentage of time a behavior detection officer (BDO) is present at a 
checkpoint while the checkpoint is open, averaged across all checkpoints 
within an airport
  Number of BDO 
checkpoint screening 
hours
 The 
number of hours a full
-time equivalent (FTE) spends performing 
checkpoint screening, broken down by employee type (i.e., BDO and 

BDO supervisor).
  Number of BDO playbook 

screening hours
 The number of hours an FTE spends performing playbook plays, broken 

down by employee type (i.e., BDO and BDO supervisor). A playbook is a 
risk mitigation program that makes use of TSA and non
-TSA security 

assets that
 are deployed in a random or unpredictab
le manner to 
complicate terrorist planning activities and deter attacks.
  Number of BDO training 
hours
 The number of hours an FTE spends on training activities, broken down 

by employee type (i.e., BDO and BDO supervisor).
  Number of BDO mentoring 
hours
 The number of hours an FTE spends on mentoring other BDOs, broken 
down by employee type (i.e., BDO and BDO supervisor). 
  Number of BDO 
administrator work hours
 The number of hours an FTE spends performing administrative work, 

broken down by employee type (i.e., BDO and BDO supervisor). 
  Number of FTE
 The total number of FTEs working during a given time interval, broken 

down by employee type (i.e., BDO and BDO supervisor).
  Number of hours per FTE
 The total number of hours worked by an FTE, broken down by employee 
type (i.e., BDO and BDO supervisor).
  Staff deployment 

efficiency
 The number of days between when a new FTE is hired and when the 

FTE starts screening travelers in an actual operation setting.
 Human factors
 Fatigue level
 The level of fatigue experienced by BDOs. Factors to be measured are 

to be finalized by DHS S&T. Initial factors to be considered include 
average number of hours spent in checkpoint screening tasks prior to a 
break and the number of passengers processed per FTE.
  Managerial level
 The level of managerial presence experienced by BDOs. Factors to be 

measured are to be finalized during the experimental design process by 
DHS 
Science and Technology Directorate (
S&T)
. Initial factors to be 
considered include average number of hours spent in the checkpoint 
area per managerial FTE and the ratio of managerial FTEs to regular 
FTEs.
  Stimulus level
 The level of stimulus presence experienced by BDOs. Factors to be 

measured are to be finalized during the experimental design process by 
DHS 
S&T. Initial factors to be considered include the average number of 
canines 
that sniff for explosives 
in the checkpoint area and the number of 
warning signs in the checkpoint area.
 Appendix V
: TSA™s Performance Metrics for 
Behavior Detection and Analysis
   Appendix V: TSA™s Performance Metrics for 

Behavior Detection and An
alysis
  
 
 
 Page 82
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
 Category/subcategory
 Metric
 Description
  Fatigue impact score
 The impact varying levels of fatigue have on a BDO™s
 ability to identify 
SPOT behavior indicators. Fatigue is to be measured using the 
procedures described for the ﬁfatigue levelﬂ metric. The impact on 

performance is to be measured as a part of an S&T study.
  Managerial presence 

impact score
 The impact varying levels of managerial presence have on a BDO™s 
ability to identify SPOT behavior indicators. Managerial presence is to be 
measured using the procedures described for the ﬁmanagerial levelﬂ 

metric. The impact on performance is to be measured as a part of the 

S&T Indicator Reliability Study.
  Stimulus presence impact 
score
 The impact varying levels of stimulus presence have on a BDO™s ability 

to identify SPOT behavior indicators. Stimulus presence is to be 
measured using the procedures described for the ﬁstimulus levelﬂ metric. 

The impact on performance is to be measured as a part of the S&T 
Indicator Reliability Study.
 General Performance
 Individual performance
 Conversation tools
 The BDO™s ability to communicate effectively with passengers and team 

members. Possible factors include: 
the 
ability to hold a casual 
conversation, 
the 
ability to ask appropriate questions, team 
communication, tone, cultural sensitivity, 
the 
ability to ans
wer 
passenger™s questions appropriately, and improvisational skills. This 
metric is to be an aggregated score based on the BDO™s performance 

across the subfactors, once the subfactors have been selected and 
evaluation criteria for each have been establishe
d. 
  Cognitive agility
 The BDO™s ability to sustain a high cognitive load without decreased 

performance. Possible factors include: ability to reset, ability to observe 
and interact, attention to details, and alertness. This metric is to be an 

aggregated score based on the BDO™s performance across the 
subfactors, once the subfactors have been selected and evaluation 
criteria for each have been established.
  Mission alignment
 The
 BDO™s awareness of alignment with
 TSA™s mission. Possible factors 
include: referral integrity, neutrality, and briefing attendance. This metric 
is to be an aggregated score based on the BDO™s performance across 
the subfactors, once the subfactors have been selected and evaluation 

criteria
 for each have been established. 
  Percentage of 

improvement across 
individual performance 
evaluations
 The percentage change in a BDO™s performance across the various 

individual performance assessments (Performance Accountability and 
Standards System, Job
 Knowledge Test, Proficiency Evaluation 
Checklist, conversation skills, cognitive agility, and mission alignment) on 
a biannual basis. 
  Security effectiveness
 Probability of detection (P(d))
 Significance of 

relationship between 
behavioral indicators 
and high
-risk outcomes
 The frequency with which a behavior indicator was associated with a 
known incident of high
-risk outcomes (i.e., LEO arrests, LEO referrals, 
serious p
rohibited or illegal items, 
or artful concealment).
   Appendix V: TSA™s Performance Metrics for 

Behavior Detection and Analysis
 
 
 
 
 Page 83
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
 Category/subcategory
 Metric
 Description
  Number of simulated high
-risk 
outcomes detected by 
SPOT referral screening 
divided by number of 
simulated high
- 
risk 
injected into SPOT referral 
screening (by high
-risk 

outcome type)
 The ratio of high
-stakes actors detected by SPOT referral screening to 

the total number of high
-stakes 
actors introduced by SPOT referral 
screening, categorized by
 high
-risk outcome type. A high
-stakes actor is 
an actor tasked with performing a specific task intend
ed to simulate the 

kind of high
-stress psychological conditions an adversary would face 
when trying to pass through security. A detection is any outcome that 
results in the actor being referred to a LEO, the serious prohibited or 
illegal item being detected, or the artful concealment being detected. 
  Number of high
-risk 

outcomes per BDO 
referral 
divided by number 
of high
-risk outcomes per 
randomized play (by high
-risk outcome type)
 The number of high
-risk outcomes per referral (from SPOT checkpoint 
screening and playbook plays) divided by the number of high
-risk 
outcomes per randomly selected passenger (randomly selected 
passengers to perform a play that includes some combination of pat
-down and open bag search). This ratio measures how reliable BDOs are 

at identifying high
-risk outcomes in comparison with random selection. 
  Variance and standard
 
deviation of SPOT score 
assigned to the same 
passenger by different 

BDOs
 The variance and standard deviation of the SPOT score assigned to the 

same footage of an individual passenger by a set of different BDOs.
  Variance and standard 

deviation of the num
ber of 
passengers (from within 

the same evaluation set) 

referred by BDOs.
 The variance and standard deviation of the number of passengers 

recommended for referral screening suggested by a set of different 
BDOs watching the same footage of a checkpoint area
. The footage 
should be selected to include passengers displaying a range of 

behaviors and should include passengers displaying indicators that meet 
the referral threshold. 
  Number of behavioral 

indicators identified 
divided by number of 
behavioral indic
ators 
present
 The number of behavioral indicators identified by a BDO divided by the 

number of behavior indicators the passenger being observed actually 
displayed. This is a measure of the BDOs ability to recognize the 
presence of SPOT indicators. The exac
t mechanism for collecting these 
data may vary depending on pilot/research results. 
  Number of passengers 
identified for referral 
divided by number of 
passengers meeting 
behavior indicator 

threshold
 The number of passengers identified for referral 
divided by the number of 
passengers meeting the behavior indicator threshold. This is a measure 

of the BDOs
™ 
ability to correctly refer passengers who demonstrate 
behavior indicators beyond the SPOT threshold score. The exact 

mechanism for collecting these
 data may vary depending on 
pilot/research results.
  Significance of 
relationship between high
-risk outcomes and actual 

terrorists or ﬁmal
-intentﬂ
 The basis for selecting certain high
-risk outcomes as proxies of actual 
terrorists. This measure is qualitative in nature and is not expected to be 
precisely measured. 
  Number of high
-risk 

outcomes caught by 
BDOs divided by number 
of high
-risk outcomes 

missed by BDOs
 The number of high
-risk outcomes detected as a result of BDO 

intervention divided by the number of high
-risk outcomes that went 
undetected by BDOs. 
   Appendix V: TSA™s Performance Metrics for 

Behavior Detection and Analysis
 
 
 
 
 Page 84
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
 Category/subcategory
 Metric
 Description
 Probability of encounter (P(e))
 Number of passengers 
screened per hour (in lab 
setting)
 The 
number of passengers a BDO is able to screen per hour. Screen 
refers to completing a visual inspection of the passenger, sufficient such 

that if the passenger were displaying behavior indicators, the BDO is 

able to detect said indicators. The lab setting of this measure refers to 
the fact that this metric will be captured using simulated airport traffic 
conditions for more controlled measurements.
  Number of passengers 
screened per hour (in 
operational setting)
 The number of passengers a BDO is able to screen per hour. Screen 
refers to completing a visual inspection of the passenger, sufficient such 
that if the passenger were displaying behavior indicators, the BDO is 
able to detect said indicators. The operational setting of this measure 
refers to the fact that this metric is to be captured during actual airport 

operations to ensure more realistic test conditions.
  Number of passengers 
screened by BDOs divided 
by total throughput
 The total number of passengers screened by BDOs divided by the total 
throughput. There are a number of possible ways to approach this 
question and various scopes to which it can be captured. These 

characteristics are to be defined through pilot and research results.
 Source: TSA, Behavior Detection and Analysis Division (BDAD) Performance Metrics Plan, November 2012.
  Table 5
 shows the validity, reliability, and frequency score TSA 
determined for each metric and the overall score for each metr
ic 
subcategory, as detailed in appendix C of its performance metrics plan, 
dated November 2012. TSA™s performance metrics plan defines validity 

as the ability of the metric to measure BDO performance,
 reliability as the 
level of certainty that data 
are
 collected precisely with minimal possibility 
for su
bjectivity or gaming the system,
 and frequency as the level of 
difficulty in collecting the metric and whether the metric is collected at the 
ideal number of scheduled recurrences.
  Table 5
: Transportation Security Administration™s (
TSA) 
Analysis of Gaps in Existing Behavior Detection and A
nalysis 
Performance Metrics Data, November 2012
 Category/
 subcategory
 TSA 

overall 
score
a Variable
 Validity
 Reliability
 Frequency
 Current 
capability 
scope
 Proposed 
scope
 Human capital management
 Operational 

management
  Percent checkpoint coverage
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 Airport 
 Number of behavior detection 
officer (
BDO
) checkpoint 
screening hours
 1 
1 
1 
Airport 
Individual
  Number of BDO playbook 
screening hours
 1 
1 
1 
Airport 
Individual
   Number of BDO training hours
 3 
3 
2 
Individual
 Individual
   Appendix V: TSA™s Performance Metrics for 

Behavior Detection and Anal
ysis
  
 
 
 Page 85
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
 Category/
 subcategory
 TSA 

overall 
score
a Variable
 Validity
 Reliability
 Frequency
 Current 
capability 
scope
 Proposed 
scope
   Number of BDO 
mentoring 
hours
 1 
3 
1 
Individual
 Individual
   Number of BDO administrator 
work hours
 1 
1 
1 
Airport 
Individual
   Number of 
full
-time equivalents 
(FTE
) 
1 
3 
2 
Airport 
Airport 
  Number of hours per FTE
 1 
3 
2 
Airport 
Airport 
  Staff deployment efficiency
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 Airport 
Human factors
  Fatigue level
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 National
  Managerial level
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 National
  Stimulus level
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 National
  Fatigue impact score
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 Foundational
b   Managerial presence impact 
score
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 Foundational
b   Stimulus presence impact score
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 Foundational
b General performance
 Individual 

performance
  Performance Accountability and 

Standards System (PASS) 
metrics
 2 
2 
2 
Individual
 Individual
  Performance Compliance 
Assessment (PCA) metrics
 3 
3 
1 
Individual
 Individual
   Job Knowledge Test (JKT) 
metrics
 2 
2 
2 
Individual
 Individual
   Proficiency Evaluation Checklist 

(PEC) metrics
 2 
2 
2 
Individual
 Individual
   Conversation skills
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 Individual
   Cognitive agility
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 Individual
   Mission alignment
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 Individual
   Percentage of improvement 
across individual performance 
evaluations
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 Individual
 Security effectiveness
 Probability of 

detection (P(d))
  Significance of relationship 

between behavioral indicators 
and high
-risk outcomes
 3 
3 
1 
Foundational
b Foundational
b   Appendix V: TSA™s Performance Metrics for 

Behavior Detection and Analysis
 
 
 
 
 Page 86
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
 Category/
 subcategory
 TSA 

overall 
score
a Variable
 Validity
 Reliability
 Frequency
 Current 
capability 
scope
 Proposed 
scope
  Number of simulated high
-risk 
outcomes detected by 
Screening 
of Passengers by Observation 

Techniques (
SPOT) referral 
screening/number of simulated 
high
-risk injected into SPOT 
referral screening (by high
-risk 

outcome type)
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 National
   Number of high
-risk outcomes 

per BDO referral/number of high
-risk outcomes per randomized 
play (by high
-risk outcome 
type)
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 National
   Variance and standard deviation 

of SPOT score assigned to the 
same passenger by different 
BDOs
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 National
   Variance and standard deviation 
of the number of passengers 
(from within the same evaluation 
set) referred by 
BDOs
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 National
   Number of behavioral indicators 

identified/number of behavioral 
indicators present
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 National
   Number of passengers identified 

for referral/number of 
passengers meeting behavior 
indicator threshold
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 National
   Significance 
of relationship 
between high
-risk 
outcomes and 
actual terrorists/mal
-intent
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 Foundational
b   Number of high
-risk outcomes 
caught by BDOs/number of high
-risk outcomes missed by BDOs
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 National
   Number of LEO arrests
 1 
3 
2 
Airport 
Airport 
  Number of serious prohibited or 
illegal items
 1 
3 
2 
Airport 
Airport 
  Number of artfully concealed 
prohibited items
 3 
3 
2 
Airport 
Airport 
  Number of passengers identified 

as illegal aliens
 1 
3 
2 
Airport 
Airport 
  Number of referrals
 3 
3 
2 
Airport 
Airport 
Probability of 

encounter (P(e))
  Number of passengers screened 

per hour (in lab setting)
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 Foundational
b   Appendix V: TSA™s Performance Metrics for 

Behavior Detection and Analysis
 
 
 
 
 Page 87
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
 Category/
 subcategory
 TSA 

overall 
score
a Variable
 Validity
 Reliability
 Frequency
 Current 
capability 
scope
 Proposed 
scope
   Number of passengers screened 
per hour (in operational setting)
 1 
1 
1 
Airport 
National
   Number of passengers 
screened 

by BDOs/total throughput
 0 
0 
0 
n/a
 National
 Legend: n/a = Not applicable.
 Source: TSA, Behavior Detection and Analysis Division (BDAD) Performance Metrics Plan, November 2012.
 aTSA™s
 overall score for each subcategory is its overall assessment of the validity, reliability, and 
frequency scores for each variable within the subcategory.
 bFoundational measures are to measure the validity of certain concepts related to the program. The 
findings of foundational measures are not expected to change significantly with time; rather they are 
to tell the base nature of the variable in question.
  = TSA overall assessment: Collecting a low level of data needed for performance 
management. Data 
are
 being collected but the data do not directly measure BDO 
performance or are a weak indicator of BDO performance. There is below 90 percent 

confidence in the way the metric is collected or the data that are collected do not 

reliably measure the metric, or 
the data that are collected can be easily manipulated or 
inflated to get more desirable results. The ability to collect or calculate the metric is 

difficult and may have been collected one or two times with no future scheduled 

recurrence.
  = TSA overall assessment: Not collecting or analyzing data needed for performance 
management. None of the data are being collected for this metric or measure. Data are 
extremely difficult to collect or TSA does not have the capability to collect the data with 

any level 
of confidence.
   Appendix VI: Comments from the Department 
of Homeland Security
  
 
 
 Page 88
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
   Appendix VI: Comments from the 
Department of Homeland Security
   Appendix VI: Comments from the Department 
of Homeland Security
  
 
 
 Page 89
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
     Appendix VI: Comments from the Department 
of Homeland Security
  
 
 
 Page 90
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
     Appendix VI: Comments from the Department 
of Homeland Security
  
 
 
 Page 91
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
     Ap
pendix VI: Comments from the Department 
of Homeland Security
   
 
 Page 92
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
      
 
 
 Page 93
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
 Stephen M. Lord, (202) 512
-4379 or 
lords@gao.gov
  In addition to the contact named above, David M. Bruno (Assistant 
Director); Charles W. Bausell, Jr.; Andrew M. Curry; Nancy K. Kawahara; 
Elizabeth B. Kowalewski; Susanna R. Kuebler; Thomas 
F. 
Lombardi; 
Grant M. Mallie; Amanda K. Miller; Linda S. Miller; Lara 
R. Miklozek; 
Douglas M. Sloane; and Jeff M. Tessin made key contributions to this 
report.
  Appendix VII: GAO Contact and Staff 
Acknowledgments 
GAO 
Contact 
Staff 
Acknowledgments 
(441190)
    
 
 
 Page 94
 GAO
-14-159  TSA Behavior Detection Activities
 The Government Accountability Office, the audit, evaluation, and 
investigative arm of Congress, exists to support Congress in meeting its 
constitutional responsibilities and to help improve the performance and 
accountability of the federal government for the American people. GAO 

examines the use of public funds; evaluates federal programs and 
policies; and provides analyses, recommendations, and other assistance 
to help Congress make informed oversight, policy, and funding decisions. 
GAO™s commitment to good government is reflected in its core values of 
accountability, integrity, and reliability.
 The fastest and easiest way to obtain copies of GAO documents at no 

cost is through GAO™s website (
http://www.gao.gov
). Each weekday 
afternoon, GAO posts on its website newly released reports, testimony
, and correspondence. To have GAO e
-mail you a list of newly posted 
products, go to 
http://www.gao.gov
 and select ﬁE
-mail Updates.ﬂ
 The price of each GAO publication reflects GAO™s actual cost of 

productio
n and distribution and depends on the number of pages in the 

publication and whether the publication is printed in color or black and 
white. Pricing and ordering information is posted on GAO™s website, 
http://w
ww.gao.gov/ordering.htm
.  Place orders by calling (202) 512
-6000, toll free (866) 
801-7077, or 
 TDD (202) 512
-2537.
 Orders may be paid for using American Express, Discover Card, 

MasterCard, Visa, check, or money order. Call for additional information.
 Connect with GAO on 
Facebook
, Flickr
, Twitter
, and
 YouTube
. 
Subscribe to our 
RSS Feeds
 or 
E-
mail Updates
. Listen to our
 Podcasts
. 
Visit GAO on the web at 
www.gao.gov
. 
Contact:
 Website: 
http://www.gao.gov/fraudnet/fraudnet.htm
 E-
mail: 
fraudnet@gao.gov
 Autom
ated answering system: (800) 424
-5454 or (202) 512
-7470 Katherine Siggerud, Managing Director, 
siggerudk@gao.gov
, (202) 512
-4400, U.S. Government Accountability Office, 441 G Street NW, Room 

7125, Washington, DC 20548
 Chuck Young, Managing Director, 
youngc1@gao.gov
, (202) 512
-4800 U.S. Government Accountability Office, 441 G Street NW, Room 7149 
 Washington, DC 20548
 GAO™s Mission
 Obtaining Copies of 
GAO Re
ports and 
Testimony 
Order by Phone
 Connect with GAO
 To Report Fraud, 
Waste, and Abuse in 
Federal Programs
 Congressional 
Relations 
Public Affairs
  PleasePrintonRecycledPaper.
