NOTICE  This document is disseminated under the sponsorship of the U.S. Department of Transportation in the interest of information exchange.  The United States Government assumes no liability for the contents or use thereof.  The United States Government does not endorse products or manufacturers.  Trade or manufacturer's names appear herein solely because they are considered essential to the objective of this report.  This document does not constitute FAA certification policy.  Consult your local FAA aircraft certification office as to its use.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This report is available at the Federal Aviation Administration William J. Hughes Technical Center™s Full-Text Technical Reports page: actlibrary.tc.faa.gov in Adobe Acrobat portable document format (PDF).       Technical Report Documentation Page 
 1.  Report No.  DOT/FAA/AR-TN10/19 2. Government Accession No. 

  3.  Recipient's Catalog No. 
  4.  Title and Subtitle 
 FLAMMABILITY TEST OF ALCOHOL-BASED HAND SANITIZER 
5.  Report Date August 2010
  6.  Performing Organization Code 
  7.  Author(s) 

 William M. Cavage 
8.  Performing Organization Report No. 
  9.  Performing Organization Name and Address 

 Federal Aviation Administration  
William J. Hughes Technical Center  

Airport and Aircraft Safety 
10.  Work Unit No. (TRAIS) 
  Research and Development Division 
Fire Safety Team 

Atlantic City International Airport, NJ  08405 
11.  Contract or Grant No.   12.  Sponsoring Agency Name and Address
 U.S. Department of Transportation 
Federal Aviation Administration
 13.  Type of Report and Period Covered 
 Technical Note  Air Traffic Organization NextGen & Operations Planning 
Office of Research and Technology Development 

Washington, DC  20591 
14.  Sponsoring Agency Code 
 ANM-115 
15.  Supplementary Notes 

  16.  Abstract 

 Some concerns have been raised about th
e flammability characteristics of personal ha
nd sanitizer, which is presently being used
 in lavatories on many commercial airlines to mitigate the spread of the H1N1 virus.  Personal hand sanitizer is a fluid, which 
is generally composed of approximately 60% ethyl alcohol by volum
e, and comes in two primary forms:  liquid and gel.  To 
examine the general flammability 
characteristics of alcohol-based hand sanitizers, a series of small-scale tests were performed
 at the William J. Hughes Technical Center by the Fire Safety Team
.  Both gel and liquid hand sanitizers were examined.  Tests 
were also performed to determine if hand sanitizer spillage could pose a significant fire threat.  The effect of burning hand 
sanitizer on typical aircraft ma
terials was examined.  Antibacter
ial liquid soap was also burned adjacent to typical aircraft materials to compare with the hand sanitizer results. 

 
As expected, hand sanitizer is flammable a
nd can easily be ignited with a common grill li
ghter when poured into a pan.  It tends to burn relatively cool, compared to fuel, plastic, or cellulose fires with peak flame temperatures between 500° and 1000°F.  T
he observed temperatures above the flame were 
higher for the liquid hand sanitizer compared
 to the gel.  The vapor is flammable 
and can be ignited by heating the liquid from the bottom and then igniting the vapor.  The hot liquid does not have to be prese
nt 
to ignite the vapor; however, the vapor could not be ignited at room or elevated ambient temperatures (up to 100°F) without 

bottom-heating the hand sanitizer.  When a 
nearly full bottle of sanitizer was involved in a fire started by burning paper towels, it burned hotter and somewhat vigorously.  At
 one point, a fire burning adjacent to a 12-ounce liquid bottle of hand sanitizer reached temperatures in excess of 1500°F. 
 When the hand sanitizer was burned adjacen
t to typical aircraft interior panels oriented horizontally or vertically, the panel did not ignite 
and burn independently, and there was no significant damage to th
e panel.  From the tests conducted, burning ha
nd sanitizer presents no significant risk to
 commercial transport aircraft fire saf
ety, given the present cabin material flammability requirements. 
17.  Key Words 
 Ethanol, Hand sanitizer, Flammability properties 
18.  Distribution Statement 
 This document is available to the public through the National 
Technical Information Service (N
TIS), Springfield, Virginia  
22161.  This document is also available from the Federal 

Aviation Administration William 
J. Hughes Technical Center at actlibrary.tc.faa.gov. 19.  Security Classif. (of this report) 
 Unclassified 20.  Security Classif. (of this page) 

 Unclassified 21.  No. of Pages 
 15 22.  Price  Form DOT F1700.7
  (8-72) Reproduction of completed page authorized 
   TABLE OF CONTENTS  Page  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY v  INTRODUCTION 1 TESTS PERFORMED 2 Pan Burn Tests 2 Vapor Ignition Tests 2 Paper Towel Burn Tests 3 Aircraft Interior Panel Burn Tests 4  RESULTS 5 Pan Burn Tests 5 Vapor Ignition Tests 5 Paper Towel Burn Tests 6 Aircraft Interior Panel Burn Tests 7  
SUMMARY 8 REFERENCES 9   iii    ivLIST OF FIGURES  Figure Page  
1 Various Brands and Types of Alcohol-Based Hand Sanitizer 
1 2 Vapor Ignition Test Setup 
3 3 Paper Towel Burn Test Setup 
4 4 Fire at the Outset of Each Paper Towel Burn Test 
7 5 Aircraft Interior Panel Vertical Burn Test Setup Compared to the  Burn Pattern 7 
6 Comparison of Aircraft Interior Horiz
ontal Panel Test Results for the 3-Minute Propane Torch Burn and the 10-Minute Liquid Hand Sanitizer Burn 8       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  Some concerns have been raised about th
e flammability characteristics of personal hand 
sanitizer, which is presently being used in lavatories on many commercial airlines to mitigate the 
spread of the H1N1 virus.  Personal hand sanitizer is a fluid, which is generally composed of 
approximately 60% ethyl alcohol and comes in tw
o primary forms:  liquid and gel.  Questions 
remain as to the hazard level posed by the flamma
ble fluid when ignited in contact with typical materials found on a commercial transport airplane. 
 Alcohols, such as ethanol and methanol, are 
easily ignited because they readily evaporate at room temperature, making the threat of vapor 
ignition more significant if spilled or spread in an enclosed area and then subjected to an ignition 
source.  Alcohols are still perceived to pose a relatively small threat to aircraft interiors because 
of the low heat release of the vapor when burning. 
 
To examine the general flammability characteristics 
of alcohol-based hand sanitizers, a series of small-scale tests were performed at the William 
J. Hughes Technical Center by the Fire Safety Team.  Both gel and liquid hand sanitizers were ex
amined.  Tests were performed to determine if 
spilled hand sanitizer could pose a significant fire 
threat.  The effect of burning hand sanitizer on 
typical aircraft materials was also examined.  
Antibacterial liquid soap was also burned adjacent to typical aircraft materials to compare with the hand sanitizer results. 

 
As expected, hand sanitizer, which is approxima
tely 60% alcohol by volume, is flammable and 

can easily be ignited with a common grill lighter
 when poured into a pan.  It tends to burn relatively coolly (compared to fuel, plastic, or 
cellulose fires) with peak flame temperatures 

between 500° and 1000°F.  The observed temperat
ures above the flame were higher for the 
liquid hand sanitizer compared to the gel.  The 
vapor is flammable and can be ignited by heating 
the liquid from the bottom and then igniting th
e vapor.  The hot liquid does not have to be present to ignite the vapor; however, the vapor could not be ignited at room or elevated ambient 
temperatures (up to 100°F) without bottom-heating the hand sanitizer.  When a nearly full bottle 

of hand sanitizer was involved in a fire started by burning paper towels, it burned hotter and 
somewhat vigorously.  At one point, a fire bur
ning adjacently to a 12-ounce liquid bottle of hand 
sanitizer reached temperatures in excess of 1500°F.
  Typical aircraft interior panels, oriented 
horizontally or vertically, did not ignite and burn independently, nor was there any significant damage, when exposed to burning hand sanitizer
 for 10-20 minutes.  From the tests conducted, 

burning hand sanitizer does not pose any significant risk to commercial transport fire safety, 
given the present cabin material flammability requirements. 

 
 
 
 
  v/vi   INTRODUCTION Some concerns have been raised about th
e flammability characteristics of personal hand 
sanitizer.  Hand sanitizer is presently being used in lavatories on many commercial airlines as a 
means to mitigate the spread of the H1N1 virus. 
 Several studies have highlighted the importance 
and scientific underpinnings of hand washing in reducing the spread of virus [1 and 2].  Some 
studies have indicated that alcohol-based hand sanitizer is a good substitute for hand washing in the absence of soap and water [3].   
In the summer of 2009, several carriers proposed to
 expand the use of personal hand sanitizer to other areas of the aircraft, such as in the galley area for flight attendants 
to use before and during handling of food.  This fluid, which is being proposed to be stored in multiple locations in 
relatively large quantities, is generally composed
 of approximately 60% ethyl alcohol and comes 
in a wide variety of forms and quantities (see figure 1).  Questions remain as to the hazard level 

posed by the flammable fluid when ignited in
 contact with typical materials found on a 
commercial transport airplane. 

   Figure 1.  Various Brands and Types of Alcohol-Based Hand Sanitizer  
Although hand sanitizer comes in many forms and 
packages, the two forms examined in this 
study were gel and liquid.  The gel hand sanitizer is deposited onto the user™s hand in a small 
quantity and rubbed on and over the hands until the hands are dry and all the alcohol has evaporated.  The liquid hand sanitizer is pumpe
d through an atomizing nozzle that turns the 

liquid into foam, which is then rubbed on and 
over the hands thoroughly.  Typically, less liquid hand sanitizer is needed to sanitize a pair of hands than the gel, but the required hand sanitizer 
quantities and level of effectiveness is beyond the scope of this study.  It should also be noted that non-alcohol-based hand sanitizer, which uses a synergistic approach to kill germs and 

bacteria (referred to as ﬁquad system technologyﬂ),
 is now available for purchase.  It comes in 
liquid form with only 14% alcohol by volume and 
is also deposited as a foam on the hands in 
small quantities. 
 1   Typically, alcohol and alcohol-related fluids are relatively rare in a commercial transport 
airplane.  The exception would be a proposed electronics and electrical bay heat exchanger that uses an ethylene glycol/water mixture, which is
 presently being certified.  Ethylene glycol has a high flash point (above 200°F).  It tends to be very difficult to ignite under conditions in 
commercial transport airplanes and is considered to be relatively safe when mixed with water. 

 
In contrast, alcohols, such as ethanol and me
thanol, are easily ignited because they readily evaporate at room temperature, making the threat
 of vapor ignition more significant if spilled or 
spread in an enclosed area and then subjected to an ignition source.  Ethanol has a flash point of approximately 55°F and a boiling point of 173°F 
[4].  Alcohols are still perceived to pose a relatively small threat to aircraft interiors becau
se of the low heat release of the vapor when burning. 
 
To determine the general flammability characteris
tics of alcohol-based hand sanitizers, a series of small-scale tests were performed.  Both gel 
and liquid hand sanitizers were examined.  Tests 
were also performed to determine if spilled hand 
sanitizer could pose a significant fire threat.  
The effect of burning hand sanitizer on typical aircraft materials was examined.  Antibacterial 
liquid soap was also burned adjacent to typical aircraft materials to compare with the hand 
sanitizer results. 
 TESTS PERFORMED The following tests were performed to charact
erize the flammability of alcohol-based hand 

sanitizer.  This complemented previous work 
[5] performed at the William J. Hughes Technical 
Center by the Fire Safety Team, which examined 
the ignitability and ease of suppression of fires from liquid, ethanol-based hand sanitizer. 

 
PAN BURN TESTS. To determine the hazard level posed by the fluid 
due to spilled or leaking hand sanitizer in an enclosed area, a 6.5- by 6.5-inch-square by 1-inch-deep pan was used to burn approximately 2 
ounces of hand sanitizer ignited with a torch flame.  The temperature above the flame and the 
duration of the burn was documented for both the 
gel and liquid hand sanitizer.  The liquid hand sanitizer was deposited in a 2- by 2-inch-square by 1-inch-deep pan as foam and burned 
immediately in a similar manner.  If the foam sat in the pan for a certain amount of time, it 

turned back to a liquid.  This allowed the flamma
bility of the hand sanitizer to be compared in 
both the liquid and foam state.  The liquid hand sa
nitizer was also sprayed (atomized into a mist) 
onto the paper towels to observe the intensity and severity of this combination.  Video was used 
to record the intensity and severity of the burning. 
 
VAPOR IGNITION TESTS. The hand sanitizer was heated in a 6.5- by 6.5-inch-square by 1-inch-deep pan from the bottom 
with an electric range burner.  A 1-gallon container, with an open bottom, was used to trap the 
generated vapor (figure 2).  The vapor was ign
ited with a grill lighter from both the bottom of 
the container and from a small hole near the top 
of the container, with and without the presence  2   of the hot pan of liquid hand sanitizer.  This was done for both the liquid and the gel hand sanitizers.  Video was used to record the intensity and severity of the burning. 
 
   Figure 2.  Vapor Ignition Test Setup  
PAPER TOWEL BURN TESTS
. A bottle of hand sanitizer was placed approximate
ly 12 inches above 50 crumpled paper towels 
and ignited in a similar manner to the Marker a
nd Do flammability study [5].  This was done to 
observe the potential fire hazard of a nearly full bottle of hand sanitizer.  The primary difference 
between the previous test and the present one was that the bottle was sitting vertically on the shelf above the fire for the present test, and for the previous study, the bottle was mounted at an 
angle over the fire.  Also, in the present test, approximately 1/2 ounce of the hand sanitizer was 
placed under the paper towels to help start the fire, and 1/2 ounce of hand sanitizer was sprayed on top of the paper towels to simulate spillage. 
 This test was performed for both the gel and 
liquid hand sanitizers, as well as for a 12-ounce bo
ttle of antibacterial soap.  Figure 3 shows the 
paper towel burn test setup. 
  3     Figure 3.  Paper Towel Burn Test Setup  AIRCRAFT INTERIOR PANEL BURN TESTS. To examine the ability of the hand sanitizer to ignite or burn aircraft interior materials, a small 

amount of hand sanitizer was burned adjacently to a 
generic aircraft interior panel.  This panel was purchased for Aircraft Material Fire Safety Research and is qualified to Federal Aviation 
Administration aircraft interior heat and smoke
 release requirements (Title 14 Code of Federal 
Regulations Part 25.853).  The panel is nominally 
1/4 inch thick and constructed of fiberglass foreplys on a NomexŽ honeycomb core with a TedlarŽ finish.  One test was performed by 

placing two 12-inch-square pieces of panel vertically and at right angles to each other.  A 2-inch-square cup, which contained a fixed amount of 
hand sanitizer, was placed at the base of the panels where they met.  One ounce of the gel ha
nd sanitizer was evaluated in this manner, while 
2 ounces of the liquid hand sanitizer was evaluated.  The amount of panel damage was noted, as 
was the ability of the burning hand sanitizer to ignite the panel. 

 
An additional test was performed using the sa
me 12-inch-square panel that was horizontally 
oriented and exposed to the 2-inch-square cup of burning liquid hand sanitizer for 10 minutes.  
To evaluate the potential for burn-through of the material, a 12-inch-square horizontal panel was 
exposed to a vertical propane torch at the center of the panel for 3 minutes.  For each test, the 
flame base was approximately 4 inches from the pa
nel.  The shape and extent of damage for both 
tests were compared. 

 
To examine the effect of a more typical fire on 
these types of cabin materials, a 30- by 48-inch 
vertical panel was subjected to the paper towel burn test.  An additional bottle of liquid hand 
sanitizer was placed in the metal tray with th
e 50 crumpled paper towels to ensure vigorous 
burning.  The paper towels were ignited and allowed to burn adjacently to the panel.  The  4   damage to the panel was noted, and video was used
 to record the extent and intensity of the 
burning.  RESULTS PAN BURN TESTS. When burning 2 ounces of gel hand sanitizer in 
the 6-inch-square pan, it burned in a controlled manner similar to a SternoŽ product used to h
eat water for food service.  It provided a consistent, modest amount of heat with peak te
mperatures, reaching approximately 500°F, 1 to 2 
inches above the flame.  This is in contrast to
 the liquid hand sanitizer that burns very similarly 
to alcohol, with a larger, more erratic flame.  
The peak temperatures 1 to 2 inches above the 
flame reached 1000°F.  Since the liquid hand saniti
zer does not retain its shape like the gel, the liquid occupied the entire pan, creating a larger surface-burning area.  This caused the liquid to burn completely in approximately 4 minutes, whereas the gel was still burning at 4 minutes. 

 
The 2 ounces of gel hand sanitizer was easily extinguished with 2 ounces of water after burning for 4 minutes.  The liquid hand sanitizer self-e
xtinguished after approximately 4 minutes of 
burning.  When the liquid hand sanitizer test was 
repeated, at approximately 1 minute into the 
test, 2 ounces of water was used to extinguish the fire.  However, the water simply pushed the 
fire around and out of the pan, briefly lighting the table on fire.  The modest fire was easily 
extinguished by blowing out the flames.  This
 caused the burning flame front to become 
detached from the liquid surface™s evapor
ating vapor source, which stopped burning.  
When 1 ounce of liquid hand sanitizer was burned in the 2-inch-square pan, it burned less 

vigorously, as it had less surface area to burn.  Wh
en the liquid hand sanitizer was deposited as foam and had the igniter immediately applied, 
it would burn with some difficultly.  The foam 
quickly turned back to liquid, which, again, burned readily like alcohol.  When the burning hand 

sanitizer was sprayed with a mist of hand sanitizer, it produced a brief airborne flame.  When this 

was done next to a single paper towel, it did not transfer the flame to the 
paper.  If the paper towel was sprayed with the mist and then placed ne
xt to the airborne flames, the flames still did 
not ignite the paper towel.  When a paper towel 
that had been dampened with the hand sanitizer 
spray was ignited with a flame source, it could be 
laid flat on the table and the flame would self-
extinguish without burning the paper towel. 
 VAPOR IGNITION TESTS. When the liquid hand sanitizer was heated fr
om the bottom and the vapor was captured, the 
vapor could be ignited by lighting the vapor escaping the side of the gallon container or by placing the igniter in the small hole in the side of the gallon container near the top.  The vapor 

would ignite with and without the presence of the hot pan of liquid.  When the hot pan was 
present, the vapor ignition tracked back to the liquid, igniting it and causing it to burn vigorously.  Although it was somewhat
 more difficult, it was possible to heat the gel from the 
bottom and create enough vapor in the gallon contai
ner to obtain ignition using the hole in the side of the gallon container near the top. 
  5   Experiments were performed to trap vapor from 
the liquid hand sanitizer without heating the pan from the bottom.  This was done at room temper
ature and at ambient temperatures as high as 
100°F, using the gallon container.  All attempts 
at trapping sufficient vapor to obtain an ignition were unsuccessful.    
PAPER TOWEL BURN TESTS
. The paper towel burn tests were performed similarly 
to the Marker and Do test [5], but the tests 
differed slightly, in that the hand sanitizer bottles were not mounted at an 
angle over the fire, but simply placed on a shelf.  Also, the crumpled 
paper towels had approximately 1 ounce of hand 
sanitizer deposited underneath and on top of them. 
 Again, this test was performed not only on 
the liquid and gel hand sanitizer, but also on the liquid antibacterial soap.  In all tests, the plastic 
bottle caught fire and melted to some extent. 

 
The antibacterial soap bottle melted only slightly and self-extinguished in less than 5 minutes. 

 
When the test was performed on the gel hand sa
nitizer, the bottle partially melted and then 
caught fire.  It began to pop and expel its contents sporadically after 1 minute of burning, and 

eventually fell into the remnants of the pape
r towel fire at 2 minutes, burning vigorously for 
1 minute after that point while expelling its contents sporadically.  The temperature adjacent to 

the burning bottle of hand sanitizer was in excess of 1500°F.  It is important to note that, as the 
bottle expelled the contents through the flame, it di
d not transfer the flame at all.  The bottle 
frequently expelled liquid 3-4 feet, but the expelled fluid itself was not burning.  The fire never 
penetrated the bottle, which continued to smolder and occasionally pop and shutter for 

20 additional minutes.   

 
When the liquid hand sanitizer was tested, the bo
ttle caught fire after 1 minute of being exposed 
to the paper towel fire, and burned vigorously long after the paper towel fire self-extinguished.  
The maximum observed temperature was approximately 1600°F.  The bottle never fell into the 

remnants of the paper towel fire, but the lid ev
entually, completely melted away and allowed for 
ebbs and flows of an intense alcohol fire, which burned with the plastic on the shelf for more 
than 20 minutes.  After a total burn time of 25 mi
nutes, the fire was reduced to a small plastic 
and alcohol fire on the side of the melted bottle. 
 It was easily blown out like a candle.  Figure 4 shows the brief, intense paper towel fire that preceded the burning of the various hand sanitizer bottles.   6     Figure 4.  Fire at the Outset of Each Paper Towel Burn Test  AIRCRAFT INTERIOR PANEL BURN TESTS. When 1 ounce of gel hand sanitizer was burned ne
xt to the two 12-inch-square panels placed vertically at right angles as previously described, neither panel burned.  The 1 ounce of gel hand sanitizer self-extinguished after 10 minutes, leav
ing the panel charred.  When 2 ounces of liquid 
hand sanitizer was tested in the same manner, it 
burned twice as long with a similar flame, even 
though, in other tests, the liquid tended to burn more erratically.  Although the panel was 
charred, it never caught fire and no burn-through occurred.  There was no significant difference between the burn patterns on the material for the 1-ounce gel hand sanitizer test compared to the 
2-ounce liquid hand sanitizer test.  Figure 5 shows both the test setup of the two 12-inch-square panels and the typical burn pattern from the test. 

   Figure 5.  Aircraft Interior Vertical Panel Test Setup (left) Compared to the  
Burn Pattern (right)   7    8When a single 12-inch-square horizontal panel wa
s exposed to a vertical propane torch for 3 minutes, the intense local heat flux burned completely through a 1-inch-square area of the 
panel.  An approximate 3-inch-diameter circle
 on the panel was so badly damaged that the 
remnants could easily be removed by hand, making a complete hole.  The remaining panel was 

only charred and remained intact, with th
e underlying honeycomb undamaged.  When 2 ounces 
of liquid hand sanitizer was burned in a 2-inch-square cup for 10 minutes, it charred an 

approximate 10-inch-diameter circle on the panel, but the panel was not significantly damaged at 

any location.  Figure 6 shows results of the two aircraft panel burn tests. 
 
When the larger panel was integrated with the 50-paper towel burn test, with additional hand 

sanitizer, a larger fire was observed, as expected, which ebbed and flowed as the hand sanitizer 
was released sporadically into the fire.  Although extensive charring of the panel was observed, 
no severe damage or burn-through occurred on the panel. 

 
For all aircraft interior panel burn tests, various amounts of the charred panel exterior ablated, 
and many charred flakes, with virtually no mass, remained only slightly attached to the test 

panel.   
   Figure 6.  Comparison of Aircraft Interior Ho
rizontal Panel Test Results for the 3-Minute Propane Torch Burn (left) and the 10-Minute Liquid Hand Sanitizer Burn (right)  SUMMARY As expected, the hand sanitizer, which is approximately 60% alcohol by volume, is flammable 
and can easily be ignited with a common grill light
er when poured into a pan.  It tends to burn 
relatively coolly, with peak flame temperatur
es between 500° and 1000°F, compared to fuel, 

plastic, or cellulose fires.  The observed temper
atures above the flame were higher for the liquid 
hand sanitizer compared to the gel hand sanitizer
.  The vapor, which is generated by heating the liquid from the bottom, is flamma
ble.  The hot liquid does not have to be present to ignite the vapor; however, the vapor could not be ignited at room or elevated ambient temperatures (up to 
100°F) without bottom-heating the hand sanitizer. 
 When a nearly full bottle of hand sanitizer 
   was involved in a fire started by burning paper towels, it burned hotter and somewhat 
vigorously.  At one point, the fire adjacent to the 12-oz bottle of hand sanitizer reached temperatures in excess of 1500°F.  Typical aircra
ft interior panels, oriented horizontally or vertically, did not ignite and burn independently, nor was the panel significantly damaged, when 
exposed to burning hand sanitizer for 10-20 mi
nutes.  From the tests conducted, burning hand 
sanitizer does not pose any significant risk to comme
rcial transport airplane fire safety, given the present cabin material flammability requirements. 
 REFERENCES 1. White, C., et al., ﬁThe Effect of Hand 
Hygiene on Illness Rate Among Students in 
University Residence Halls,ﬂ American Journal of Infection Control, October 2003, Vol. 31, No. 6, pp. 364-70.  
2. Grayson, M.L., et al., ﬁEfficacy of Soap and Water and Alcohol-Based Hand-Rub 
Preparations Against Live H1N1 Influenza Virus on the Hands of Human Volunteers,ﬂ 
Clinical Infectious Diseases, February 2009, Vol. 48, No. 3, pp. 285-91.  
3. Vessy, J.A., Sherwood, J.J., and Warner, D., ﬁComparing Hand Washing to Hand 

Sanitizers in Reducing Elementary School Students™ Absenteeism,ﬂ 
Pediatric Nursing, 2007, Vol. 33, No. 4, pp. 368-372.  
4. Dean, et al., Lange™s Handbook of Chemistry, McGraw Hill, 1979.  
5. Marker, T. and Do, D., ﬁFire Testing of Ethanol-Based Hand Cleaner,ﬂ DOT/FAA/AR-TN98/15, April 1998.   9/10