106Journal of American Physicians and Surgeons
 Volume 23
 Number 4 Winter 2018
A similar analysis was completed on the entire sample, 
considering autism without mental retardation (MR), and 
autism with MR separately. MR was de˚ned as having an IQ 

score of less than 70. Odds ratios were obtained for the same 

three age groups for receiving the ˚rst MMR vaccine.
Results
MMR Timing in African-American Males
As noted above, DeStefano et al.
1 reported a statistically 
signi˚cant relationship between the age of receipt of the ˚rst 
MMR vaccine and autism incidence in school-aged children 

in their case-control study, which used a 1:3 case-control 

matching. They used a dichotomized conditional logistic 

regression with matching based on gender, age, and school 

attended. 
To test the hypothesis that the relationship was an artifact 
of early ﬁhealth-seeking behaviorﬂ to qualify for a special early-

intervention program, rather than a possible e˝ect of early 

MMR vaccination, the current study performed conditional 

logistic regression with matching based on birth year and 

school of attendance, with individual analyses of separate 

categories of white and other males, black males, white and 

other females, and black females. 
Table 1 shows the descriptive statistics for the sample to be 
considered. Because DeStefano et al. did not match cases and 

controls by race, there is a slight deviation from 1:3 matching 

in each separate sample to be considered.
The only race/gender category showing a statistically 
signi˚cant relationship is black males, who appear to be 38% 

more likely to receive an autism diagnosis if they received 

the ˚rst MMR vaccine one year earlier than the controls. This 

relationship is still statistically signi˚cant (
p = 0.048) when 

applying the Bonferroni correction to multiple comparisons 

within the same data set, although this type of correction is 

arguably not necessarily appropriate in multiple analyses of 

related outcomes.
4 Following the method of DeStefano et al.,
1 conditional 
logistic regression was performed for black males only, except 

that the age category was dichotomized for ˚rst vaccine receipt 

before or after 18 months, 24 months, or 36 months, instead of 

just for before or after 36 months. Separate conditional logistic 

regressions were performed for each age categorization; cases 

were matched to controls based on birth year and school 

attended. Results are shown in Table 3.















































 
In this instance, an increase in the odds ratio is seen with 
increasing age of ˚rst MMR vaccine, with statistical signi˚cance 

achieved at the 24-month and 36-month cuto˝s. 
Table 1.
 Descriptive Statistics for the Sample
Unlike in the analysis by DeStefano et al., the ˚rst analysis in 
this study treated age of ˚rst MMR vaccination as a continuous 

independent variable reported in years of age. Also, unlike the 

original DeStefano et al. analysis,
1 in this study the presence 
of autism diagnoses was evaluated without using covariates. 

Cases were matched to controls based on birth year and 

school attended. The results for these four analyses are shown 

in Table 2.
Table 2.
 E˝ect of race/gender category on relative risk 
of autism based on the age of ˚rst MMR administration 

(conditional logistic regression with cases matched to controls 

based on birth year and school attended)
Table 3.
 Odds ratio for receiving an autism diagnosis for 
African-American males receiving the ˚rst MMR vaccine before 

or after di˝erent age cuto˝s
 107Journal of American Physicians and Surgeons
 Volume 23
 Number 4 Winter 2018
The odds ratios for receiving a diagnosis of autism without 
mental retardation (Table 4) or with mental retardation (Table 
5) were also determined for the entire data set for receipt of 

the ˚rst MMR vaccine before or after the three di˝erent age 

cut-o˝s. Cases were matched to controls based on birth year, 

gender, and school attended. The only statistically signi˚cant 

˚nding was for autism without MR for the 36-month cut-o˝.
Discussion
The analysis of the MADDSP data by DeStefano et al.
1 did 
not consider gender separately and considered race only in 
the 41% smaller ﬁbirth-certi˚cateﬂ sample. This obscured the 

statistically signi˚cant observation of the apparent e˝ect of 

vaccine timing on the incidence of autism in black males. 

Their methodology departed substantially from the original 

analysis protocol, laid out by the study co-authors and 

˚nalized on Sep 5, 2001, which indicated that race information 

was to be abstracted from school records for all individuals in 

the sample. It further stated, ﬁThe only variable available to be 

assessed as a potential confounder using the entire sample is 

child™s race.ﬂ
5 The earliest analyses completed subsequent to 
˚nalizing the analysis plan included the entire sample for the 

race analysis, and showed a statistically signi˚cant e˝ect for 

blacks, yet no such e˝ect for whites and others.
A data table generated as a part of an analysis dated Nov 
7, 2001, was obtained from a coauthor and lead statistician 

of the paper, Dr. William Thompson (see Figure 1).
6 The data 
show statistically signi˚cant odds ratios for all subjects in 

the sample for the matched analysis (conditional logistic 

regression, dichotomized at 36 months of age, OR 1.61, 95% 

CI 1.10 Œ 2.34) and for blacks only, including both boys and 

girls, in the unmatched analysis (also conditional logistic 

regression, dichotomized at 36 months of age, OR 2.25, 95% 

CI 1.25 Œ 4.03). The former results were presented in the ˚nal 

paper by DeStefano et al.,
1 but the latter results for African-
Americans were omitted in favor of results for the ﬁbirth-

certi˚cate sampleﬂ only. Further, when using those blacks 

vaccinated after 36 months as a reference group, subgroups 

vaccinated between ages 12Œ15 months and 16Œ18 months 

also had statistically signi˚cant e˝ects. 
In the CDC™s table, ﬁmatchedﬂ means that cases and controls 
were matched together if they were the same gender, age, 

and went to the same school. ﬁUnmatchedﬂ means that cases 

were clustered with controls without any of those stipulations. 

Thus, males could be considered against females, etc. ﬁIsolated 

autismﬂ is a term that DeStefano et al. used for autism with no 

other diagnoses within the ˚rst year of life. ﬁNonisolated autismﬂ 

means that the children had comorbidities within the ˚rst year 

of life. The unusual intervals were determined by the CDC for 

unexplained reasons.
The e˝ect of birth year (before or after 1990) was also 
explored by conditional logistic regression based on age of 
˚rst MMR vaccine in years (see Table 6). There was a statistically 

signi˚cant e˝ect for the entire group and for the sub-group 

born in 1990 or later. 














Table 4.
 Odds ratio for receiving an autism diagnosis without 

mental retardation for all subjects receiving the ˚rst MMR at 

speci˚c age cut-o˝s
Table 5.
 Odds ratio for receiving an autism diagnosis with 
mental retardation for all subjects receiving the ˚rst MMR at 

speci˚c age cut-o˝s
Table 6.
 Odds ratio for receiving the MMR vaccine one year 

earlier for African-American (AA) males born prior to 1990 or 

in 1990 and thereafter
 108Journal of American Physicians and Surgeons
 Volume 23
 Number 4 Winter 2018
Autism is a very signi˚cant problem in African-Americans, 
and there are con˛icting data on autism incidence in this 
population, relative to whites and other races. However, one 

study showed that prevalence of autism in African-Americans 

was approximately 25% higher than that of whites when the 

data were adjusted for socioeconomic factors.
7 All potential 
causes of or contributors to autism incidence should be 

investigated, regardless of their bearing on U.S. vaccination 

rates. The e˝ect originally observed by the CDC and a˜rmed 

in this paper, showing a greater risk speci˚cally for African-

Americans, deserves additional, immediate investigation.
MMR Timing Related to Mental Retardation
Another feature reported by DeStefano et al.
1 is a statistically signi˚cant association between MMR timing and 
autism incidence when considering autism cases with or 

without a diagnosis of mental retardation (MR). MR was de˚ned 

in the original paper as an IQ less than 70, measured between 

1996 and 1998. Speci˚cally, Table 4 in DeStefano et al. shows 

an odds ratio of 2.45 (95% CI 1.20 Œ 5.00) when looking at the 

risk of autism without MR, using at the 36-month ﬁcut-o˝ﬂ age. 

This means that those individuals receiving MMR vaccine prior 
to age 36 months were at a statistically signi˚cant greater risk 

of autism without MR as compared to those who received the 

vaccine at 36 months or thereafter. This analysis was completed 

on the total sample (with 248 cases and age, gender, and 

school-matched controls). Curiously, this analysis was repeated 

on the birth-certi˚cate sample, consisting of 132 cases and age, 

gender, and school-matched controls, with adjustments for 

birth weight, multiple gestation, maternal age, and maternal 

education. DeStefano et al. had 1,824 control subjects with 

1:3 case control matching, but they do not report the number 

of controls used in each of these particular analyses. With the 

limited power associated with the smaller sample, statistical 

signi˚cance was avoided in the second analysis, with an odds 

ratio of 3.55 (95% CI 0.74 Œ 17.07). 
In the current analysis, this association was revisited for 
the entire sample for cases of autism with and without mental 

retardation. In each case, conditional logistic regression was used 

on cases matched to controls by birth year, gender, and school 

attended. Results for cases without MR are shown in Table 4, 

where no statistically signi˚cant e˝ect is seen at 18 months, a 

marginal e˝ect is seen at 24 months (OR = 1.47, 
p = 0.094), and a 
signi˚cant e˝ect is seen at 36 months (OR = 2.52, 
p = 0.012). This 
Figure 1.
 Results of analysis of Dr. William Thompson on all children, African-Americans, whites, and others, from Nov 7, 2001.
 contrasts with cases of autism with MR (results shown in Table 5), 
in which no e˝ect is observed.
DeStefano et al.
1 mentioned the e˝ect regarding autism 
without MR only in passing, stating: ﬁThe only exception was that 

case children without MR were more likely to have been vaccinated 

before 36 months of age than their matched control children.ﬂ 

No discussion of any potential reason for this e˝ect is o˝ered. 

Neither is this result contrasted to any of the other statistically 

signi˚cant results, in which the coauthors suggest that the e˝ect 

may result from the requirement that children with an autism 

diagnosis are required to receive their ˚rst MMR early in order to 

qualify for special education services. The obvious problem with 

this argument, in light of the results, is that no consistent e˝ect is 

observed across all the demographics studied (boys versus girls, 

di˝erent races, etc.), all of whom face the same requirement.
It is notable that a signi˚cant portion of the U.S. autism 
population has no intellectual disability. The Autism and 

Developmental Disability Monitoring (ADDM) network in 

2014 reported a prevalence of autism without concurrent 

intellectual disability of 10.2/1000, whereas the prevalence of 

autism with concurrent disability was 4.7/1000. Authors of the 

report concluded that ﬁa large proportion of the observed ASD 

prevalence increase can be attributed to children with average or 

above average intellectual ability (IQ >85).ﬂ
8 Several other recent 
studies a˜rm this.
9MMR Timing When Considering Underlying

Thimerosal Exposure
One aspect of the vaccine schedule that was not studied 
by DeStefano et al. was the e˝ect of thimerosal exposure 

on developmental outcomes in light of timing of the MMR 

vaccine. Many previous studies have shown a relationship 

between autism incidence and thimerosal exposure from infant 

vaccines.
10 Gallagher et al.
3 have reported that ﬁnon-whiteﬂ 
males bear a greater risk from exposure to thimerosal from the 

hepatitis B vaccination series. 
The birth dates of the MADDSP sampling, between 1986 
and 1994, yielded a unique opportunity for comparison, given 

the rise in thimerosal exposure starting in the early 1990s with 

the addition of the hepatitis B and 
Haemophilus in˚uenza type 

b (Hib) vaccine series to the CDC™s infant vaccination schedule. 
Since insu˜cient information was available in the data set 
to directly calculate infant thimerosal exposure, the sample 

was split into two exposure groups: those born before 1990, 

as a surrogate for lower thimerosal exposure, and those born 

in 1990 and thereafter, as a surrogate for higher thimerosal 

exposure. Then, rather than dichotomizing each sub-sample by 

age of ˚rst MMR vaccine (e.g., before and after 36 months of 

age), a conditional logistic model was run based on the odds 

associated with receiving the MMR vaccine ﬁone year earlier,ﬂ 

i.e. where the timing of the ˚rst MMR vaccine was treated as 

a continuous variable. Results for African-American males 

are shown in Table 6 and clearly demonstrate that statistical 

signi˚cance is achieved only for the sample taken after the 1990 

birth year cut-o˝ (OR = 1.720, 
p-value = 0.0325). These would 
include infants subjected to the three-shot hepatitis B vaccine 

series, with a total mercury exposure of 37.5 micrograms from 

thimerosal, and the four-shot Hib series, with a mercury exposure 

of 100 micrograms from thimerosal, in addition to the four-shot 
diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis (DTaP) series (which was 

recommended prior to 1990), with a mercury exposure of 100 

micrograms from thimerosal. Thus, infants compliant with the 

CDC recommended schedule, born in 1990 and thereafter, were 

exposed to an additional 137.5 micrograms mercury by age 

18 months. The results, which are preliminary, suggest some 

type of synergism between thimerosal exposure and MMR 

timing leading to a greater risk of autism. However, this more 

complex ﬁe˝ectﬂ requires additional study for con˚rmation, and 

to understand the role of thimerosal and the MMR in the onset 

and etiology of autism, especially given the limited nature of 

the MADDSP data set. 
Conclusion 
The data set used by DeStefano et al.
1 represents a huge lost 
opportunity to understand any role between the timing of the ˚rst 
MMR vaccine and autism. The re-analysis presented here elucidates 

e˝ects that should at least merit further investigation. Speci˚cally, 

increased risks of earlier vaccination are observed for African-

American males and among cases of autism without MR. Both 

phenomena deserve additional study that could yield important 

clues regarding the current enormous increase in autism. 
Brian Hooker, Ph.D., P.E., 
is assistant professor of biology at Simpson 
University in Redding, Calif., and principal consultant for Brian Hooker 
Consulting. Contact: drbrianhooker@gmail.com. 
Disclosures: 
Dr. Hooker has received funding from the Focus for Health 
Foundation and serves on Focus for Health™s board of directors. Dr. Hooker is 
also on the board of directors for the Children™s Health Defense (formerly the 

World Mercury Project).
REFERENCES1. DeStefano F, Bhasin TK, Thompson WW, Yeargin-Allsop M, Boyle C. Age 
at ˚rst measles-mumps-rubella vaccination in children with autism 

and school-matched control subjects: a population-based study in 

metropolitan Atlanta. 
Pediatrics
 2004;113:259-266.2. Geier DA, Hooker BS, Kern JK, et al. A two-phase study evaluating the 

relationship between thimerosal-containing vaccine administration and 

the risk for an autism spectrum disorder diagnosis in the United States. 

Transl Neurodegener
 2013;2:25-36.3. Gallagher CM, Goodman MS. Hepatitis B vaccination of male neonates 

and autism diagnosis, NHIS 1997-2002. 
J Toxicol Environ Health
 Part A 

2010;73:1665-1677.4. Bland JM, Altman DG. Multiple signi˚cance tests: the Bonferroni method. 

BMJ 1995;310(6973):170.5. Thompson WW. Autism and Childhood MMR VaccineŠDraft of Analysis 

Plan; Sep 5, 2001. Available at: http://media.wix.com/ugd/b3aa2b_680d4

22b34cf4940bedce4aa475de8b4.pdf. Accessed Nov 14, 2018.
6. Thompson WW. CDC whistleblower, Dr. William Thompson™s, public 

statement. 
The Greater Good
 movie; Sep 1, 2014. Available at: http://
www.greatergoodmovie.org/news-views/cdc-whistleblower-dr-william-

thompsons-public-statement/. Accessed Nov 14, 2018.
7. Durkin MS, Maenner MJ, Meaney FJ, et al. Socioeconomic inequality in 

the prevalence of autism spectrum disorder: evidence from a U.S. cross-

sectional study. 
PloS One
 2010;5:e11551.8. CDC Autism and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring Network 

Surveillance Year 2010 Principal Investigators. Prevalence of autism 

spectrum disorder among children aged 8 yearsŠAutism and 

Developmental Disabilities Monitoring Network, 11 sites, United States, 

2010. MMWR Surveillance Summaries
 2014;63(2):1-21. Available at: https://
www.cdc.gov/mmwr/pdf/ss/ss6302.pdf. Accessed Nov 14, 2018.
9. Elsabbagh M, Divan G, Koh YJ, et al. Global prevalence of autism and other 

pervasive developmental disorders. 
Autism Res
 2012; 5:160-179.10. Hooker BS. Scienti˚c Papers Showing a Link Between Thimerosal Exposure 

and Autism; Sep 10, 2015. Available at: https://www.focusforhealth.org/

wp-content/uploads/2015/03/2015_9_10-Scientific-Papers-Showing-

Linking-Thimerosal-Exposure-to-Autism.pdf. Accessed Nov 14, 2018.
109Journal of American Physicians and Surgeons
 Volume 23
 Number 4 Winter 2018
