Articles  Global research U.S. research Policy analysis Guttmacher Policy Review Op-eds &amp; external blogs    Fact Sheets  Global U.S. U.S. State Laws and Policies    Data &amp; Visualizations  Data center Infographics    Peer-Reviewed Journals  International Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health     Topics    Global  Abortion Contraception HIV &amp; STIs Pregnancy Teens    U.S.
 Abortion Contraception HIV &amp; STIs Pregnancy Teens     Regions    Our Work By Geography  Global Asia Latin America &amp; the Caribbean Sub-Saharan Africa United States Explore our partnerships     About    Who We Are  About us Staff Board Partnerships Job opportunities History Contact    Media  Media office News releases    Support Our Work  Make a gift today Monthly Giving Circle Guttmacher Guardians Donate stock or securites Guttmacher Legacy Circle Financials Annual Report    Awards and Scholarships  Darroch Award Richards Scholarship         Search form                Good reproductive health policy starts with credible research       Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Email                    Good reproductive health policy starts with credible research        Donate Now  Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Email        Our work     Highlights  COVID-19 impact Adding It Up Guttmacher-Lancet Commission U.S. policy resources State policy resources State legislation tracker        Reports  Global U.S.
 Articles  Global research U.S. research Policy analysis Guttmacher Policy Review Op-eds &amp; external blogs    Fact Sheets  Global U.S. U.S. State Laws and Policies    Data &amp; Visualizations  Data center Infographics    Peer-Reviewed Journals  International Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health        Topics    Global  Abortion Contraception HIV &amp; STIs Pregnancy Teens    U.S.
 Abortion Contraception HIV &amp; STIs Pregnancy Teens       Regions    Our Work By Geography  Global Asia Latin America &amp; the Caribbean Sub-Saharan Africa United States Explore our partnerships       About    Who We Are  About us Staff Board Partnerships Job opportunities History Contact    Media  Media office News releases    Support Our Work  Make a gift today Monthly Giving Circle Guttmacher Guardians Donate stock or securites Guttmacher Legacy Circle Financials Annual Report    Awards and Scholarships  Darroch Award Richards Scholarship          Search form                    As of November 1, 2020 State Laws and Policies  Parental Involvement in Minors’ Abortions     Background The majority of states require parental involvement in a minor’s decision to have an abortion.
 Most of these states require the consent or notification of only one parent, usually 24 or 48 hours before the procedure, but a handful of states require the involvement of both parents.
 Some states require the minor and a parent to provide government-issued identification to the abortion provider and/or as part of notarizing the parental consent form.
 In a small number of states, the parent must also provide proof of parenthood.
 Several states allow grandparents or other adult relatives to be involved in place of the minor’s parents, and many waive parental involvement requirements if there is a medical emergency or the minor is the victim of abuse or neglect.
 Because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that states may not give parents an absolute veto over their daughter’s decision to have an abortion, most state parental involvement requirements include a judicial bypass procedure that allows a minor to receive court approval for an abortion without her parents’ knowledge or consent.
 Some states require judges to use specific criteria when determining whether to grant a waiver of parental involvement.
 These criteria can include the minor’s intelligence, emotional stability and understanding of the possible consequences of obtaining an abortion.
 Many states require a judge to use the unusually strict legal standard of “clear and convincing evidence” to determine whether a minor is sufficiently mature and the abortion is in her best interest prior to waiving the parental involvement requirement.
 Highlights  37 states require parental involvement in a minor’s decision to have an abortion.
 21 states require only parental consent; 3 of these require both parents’ consent.
 6 states require both parental notification and consent.
 10 states require only parental notification; 1 of these requires that both parents be notified.
 7 states permit a minor to obtain an abortion if a grandparent or other adult relative is involved in the decision.
 11 states require identification for parental consent.
 4 states require proof of parenthood for parental consent.
 2 states require a minor’s identification to have an abortion.
 37 states that require parental involvement have an alternative process for minors seeking an abortion.
 36 states include a judicial bypass procedure, which allows a minor to obtain approval from a court.
 7 states require judges to use specific criteria, such as a minor’s intelligence or emotional stability, for deciding whether to waive parental involvement.
 15 states require judges to use the “clear and convincing evidence” standard to determine whether the minor is mature and the abortion is in her best interest when deciding whether to waive parental involvement.
 Most states that require parental involvement make exceptions under certain circumstances.
 34 states permit a minor to obtain an abortion in a medical emergency.
 15 states permit a minor to obtain an abortion in cases of abuse, assault, incest or neglect.
 Printer-friendly version     For more information     Public Policy Office 202 296-4012 [email protected]          TopicUnited StatesAbortion: State Policies on AbortionTeens: State Policies on Teens GeographyUnited States: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming   Related Content   Research Article  Abortion-Seeking Minors’ Views on the Illinois Parental Notification Law: A Qualitative Study  Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health     Research Article  Do Depression and Low Self-Esteem Follow Abortion Among Adolescents?
 Evidence from a National Study  Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health     Research Article  Parental Consent for Abortion and the Judicial Bypass Option in Arkansas: Effects and Correlates  Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health     Report  The Impact of Laws Requiring Parental Involvement for Abortion: A Literature Review    Research Article  Confidential Reproductive Health Services for Minors: The Potential Impact of Mandated Parental Involvement for Contraception  Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health      Monthly State Policy Updates  Get an overview of state legislative and policy activity in all topics of sexual and reproductive health.
 Learn More              Parental Involvement in Minors' Abortions     State   Parental involvement   Other relatives allowed to consent   Parent must provide:   Minor must provide identification         Consent only   Notification and consent   Notification only   Identification   Proof of parenthood     Alabama   X               X   X         Alaska           ▼                     Arizona   X               X*             Arkansas   X               X*             California   ▼                             Colorado           X                     Delaware‡​           X†​   X                 Florida        X           X             Georgia           X       X             Idaho   X                             Illinois           X   X                 Indiana   X               ▽​   ▽​         Iowa           X   X                 Kansas   Both parents               X*             Kentucky   X                             Louisiana   X               X*   X         Maryland           X†​                     Massachusetts   X                             Michigan   X                             Minnesota           Both parents                     Mississippi   Both parents                             Missouri    Xϴ​                             Montana   ▽       ▽​                     Nebraska   X               X*             Nevada           ▼                     New Hampshire           X                     New Jersey           ▼                     New Mexico   ▼                             North Carolina   X           X                 North Dakota   Both parents                             Ohio   X                             Oklahoma       X           X*   X   X     Pennsylvania   X                             Rhode Island   X                             South Carolina‡​   X†           X                 South Dakota           X                     Tennessee   X                   X         Texas       X           X*       X     Utah       X                         Virginia       X       X   X*             West Virginia           X                     Wisconsin   X†​           X                 Wyoming       X                         TOTAL   21   6   10   7   11   4   2     Note: Except where indicated, policies require the involvement of one parent.
 ▼ Permanently enjoined by court order; policy not in effect.
 ▽ Temporarily enjoined by court order; policy not in effect.
 * Parental consent documentation must be notarized, which requires the parent to provide government-issued identification.
 In Louisiana and Oklahoma, the parent must also provide identification to the abortion provider.
 †​  Allows specified health professionals to waive parental involvement in limited circumstances.
 ‡ In Delaware, applies to women younger than 16; in South Carolina, applies to those younger than 17.
 ϴ Missouri law requires the consenting parent or guardian to notify any other custodial parent or guardian that the minor is having an abortion.
 Parental Involvement in Minors' Abortions     State   Judicial bypass   Exceptions         Available   Specific criteria   "Clear and convincing evidence" standard   Medical emergency   Abuse, assault, incest or neglect     Alabama   X           X         Alaska   ▼           ▼   ▼     Arizona   X   X   X   X   X     Arkansas   X   X   X   X   X     California                         Colorado   X       X   X   X     Delaware‡​   X†​​            X         Florida   X   X   X   X         Georgia   X           X         Idaho   X       X   X   X     Illinois   X           X   X     Indiana   X           X         Iowa   X           X   X     Kansas   X   X   X   X         Kentucky   X   X       X         Louisiana   X       X   X         Maryland                   X†     Massachusetts   X           X         Michigan   X           X         Minnesota   X           X   X     Mississippi   X       X   X         Missouri   X                     Montana                         Nebraska   X       X   X   X     Nevada                         New Hampshire   X           X         New Jersey                         New Mexico                         North Carolina   X           X         North Dakota   X       X   X         Ohio   X   X   X             Oklahoma   X       X   X   X     Pennsylvania   X           X         Rhode Island   X           X         South Carolina‡​   X           X   X     South Dakota   X       X   X         Tennessee   X           X   X     Texas   X   X   X   X         Utah   XΩ​           X   Xξ​     Virginia   X           X   X     West Virginia   X*           X         Wisconsin   X*           X   X     Wyoming   X       X   X         TOTAL   36   7   15   34   15     ▼ Permanently enjoined by court order; policy not in effect.
 †​  Allows specified health professionals to waive parental involvement in limited circumstances.
 ‡  In Delaware, applies to women younger than 16; in South Carolina, applies to those younger than 17.
 Ω​  Applies to parental consent requirement only.
 ξ​  Applies to parental notice requirement only.
 Get updates on policy issues and more   E-mail Address                                Reproductive rights are under attack.
 Will you help us fight back with facts?
 Donate Now            Follow Guttmacher: Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn   Footer Menu  Privacy Policy         © 2020 Guttmacher Institute.
 The Guttmacher Institute is registered as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization under the tax identification number 13-2890727.
 Contributions are tax deductible to the fullest extent allowable.
