Publisher Gary Schwitzer and other contributors may post new articles periodically.
 But all of the 6,000+ articles we have published contain lessons to help you improve your critical thinking about health care interventions.
 And those will be still be alive on the site for a couple of years.
 Story Reviews News Release Review Blog Posts    6151 Posts 2616 Story Reviews 606 News Release Reviews 2929 Blog Posts   Home Story Reviews News Release Reviews Blog Podcasts About Us Editorial Team What We Review and How Review Criteria How Is the Star Score Determined?
 Our Comments Policy Accolades for HealthNewsReview.org Talks, Workshops &amp; Presentations Toolkit Tips for Analyzing Studies &amp; Health Care Claims Just for Journalists: Writing Tips Stories of Patient Harm from Misleading Media Pre-publication News Release Review Health News Watchdog podcasts News Sites &amp; Blogs We Like List of Industry-Independent Experts Links to Other Resources Contact    Menu               January 29, 2018 Read Original StoryThough it may reduce impact of a stroke, blood clot removal surgery is not without risks   Reviewed By Rating  Categories  New York Times Tags  stroke  New Findings Could Save Lives of More Stroke Patients   Our Review SummaryThis story discusses research findings that could improve the treatment options available to stroke patients.
 By extending the eligibility cutoff for blood clot removal from 6 to 16 hours post-stroke, researchers found that more lives could be saved and disability among stroke patients reduced.
 The story included some helpful details, such as how the study’s findings will likely change current stroke guidelines.
 But other core details were missing, such as the costs and harms of treatment.
 Also, no independent sources were tapped, just a news release.
 We also reviewed a related news release on a different study that had a similar intervention.
 Like this news story, that article skimped on cost, harms and study details.
 Why This MattersA study such as this is particularly newsworthy, since strokes are among the leading causes of death and disability in the U.S. Providing a thorough look at the study’s findings and limitations–as well as the costs and harms of the treatment used–helps readers make sense of the news.
 Criteria  Does the story adequately discuss the costs of the intervention?
 Not Satisfactory There’s no mention of how much the special imaging and surgical procedure will cost patients.
 Does the story adequately quantify the benefits of the treatment/test/product/procedure?
 Satisfactory The article describes the impact of blood clot removal on “functional independence” and death rates for stroke patients.
 Readers learn that 45 percent of patients who had blood clots removed became functionally independent compared to 17 percent who did not have their blood clots removed.
 Additionally, the death rate was 12 percentage points lower in the group who had their blood clots removed compared to patients who didn’t have them removed.
 However, since the story’s headline says that extending the time window for blood clot surgery will “save lives,” it would have been more informative if the article reported on the additional lives saved by expanding the treatment window to 16 hours, by including the sizes of the treatment and control group.
 All we know is that there were 182 patients involved in the study.
 Does the story adequately explain/quantify the harms of the intervention?
 Not Satisfactory Aside from acknowledging that not all stroke patients who fall in the extended time frame are eligible for this procedure, no harms were discussed.
 What are the harms of standard medical therapy for stroke, therapy plus thrombectomy surgery, and the special brain imaging?
 Does the story seem to grasp the quality of the evidence?
 Not Satisfactory The story provides some basic details about the study, but isn’t specific enough.
 We’re not told: Why only about half the patients who were screened were able to receive blood clot removal surgery What the average time was for having surgery after onset of symptoms What type of “special imaging” was used to determine eligibility What the control group received as a treatment What the study’s limitations were Does the story commit disease-mongering?
 Satisfactory There is no disease mongering in this story.
 Does the story use independent sources and identify conflicts of interest?
 Not Satisfactory The story includes a statement from an NIH doctor, taken from a news release.
 No independent sources were quoted.
 Does the story compare the new approach with existing alternatives?
 Not Satisfactory The story didn’t make it clear enough that patients in the non-surgery group still received standard medical treatment for stroke.
 What does that consist of, and how effective is it?
 We’re not told.
 Does the story establish the availability of the treatment/test/product/procedure?
 Satisfactory While it’s not clear when the new 16-hour guideline will take effect, the article makes it clear that this procedure is currently available.
 Does the story establish the true novelty of the approach?
 Satisfactory The novelty of this research is the extended time frame for treatment rather than the treatment itself.
 The story does a good job of making this distinction clear.
 Does the story appear to rely solely or largely on a news release?
 Satisfactory The story does not appear to rely on a news release.
 Total Score: 5 of 10 Satisfactory  You might also like   Strong on context, light on data: Reuters Health story on chondroitin for knee pain Bloomberg story provides clear-eyed view of trendy neurofeedback brain-training clinics Speculation overshadows caution in HealthDay's snake venom-derived blood thinner story  Comments Please note, comments are no longer published through this website.
 All previously made comments are still archived and available for viewing through select posts.
 × Our Comments Policy We welcome comments, which users can leave at the end of any of our systematic story reviews or at the end of any of our blog posts.
 But before leaving a comment, please review these notes about our policy.
 You are responsible for any comments you leave on this site.
 This site is primarily a forum for discussion about the quality (or lack thereof) in journalism or other media messages (advertising, marketing, public relations, medical journals, etc.)
 It is not intended to be a forum for definitive discussions about medicine or science.
 We will delete comments that include personal attacks, unfounded allegations, unverified claims, product pitches, profanity or any from anyone who does not list a full name and a functioning email address.
 We will also end any thread of repetitive comments.
 We don”t give medical advice so we won”t respond to questions asking for it.
 We don”t have sufficient staffing to contact each commenter who left such a message.
 If you have a question about why your comment was edited or removed, you can email us at feedback@healthnewsreview.org.
 There has been a recent burst of attention to troubles with many comments left on science and science news/communication websites.
 Read “Online science comments:  trolls, trash and treasure.” The authors of the Retraction Watch comments policy urge commenters: “Shed light, not just heat.
 Facts, challenges, disagreements, corrections — those are all fine.
 Attacking the person, instead of the idea or the interpretation, is neither acceptable nor helpful.” We”re also concerned about anonymous comments.
 We ask that all commenters leave their full name and provide an actual email address in case we feel we need to contact them.
 We may delete any comment left by someone who does not leave their name and a legitimate email address.
 And, as noted, product pitches of any sort – pushing treatments, tests, products, procedures, physicians, medical centers, books, websites – are likely to be deleted.
 We don”t accept advertising on this site and are not going to give it away free.
 The ability to leave comments expires after a certain period of time.
 So you may find that you’re unable to leave a comment on an article that is more than a few months old.
 Getty Images You might also like   Strong on context, light on data: Reuters Health story on chondroitin for knee pain Bloomberg story provides clear-eyed view of trendy neurofeedback brain-training clinics Speculation overshadows caution in HealthDay's snake venom-derived blood thinner story   	Story Reviews  Systematic, Criteria-Driven News Organizations’ Overall Grades  @HealthNewsRevu Retweet on TwitterHealthNewsReview.org RetweetedMighty #WearAMask Casey ☀️@MightyCasey·New ep of @hilarious_is with @garyschwitzer of @HealthNewsRevu - he's the Michael Corleone of myth-busting in health and medicine news!
 Just Press Play #podcast #journalism #FactCheck #science #medicine https://www.patreon.com/posts/42537673Reply on Twitter 1314332147826782209Retweet on Twitter 13143321478267822093Like on Twitter 13143321478267822097Twitter 1314332147826782209Retweet on TwitterHealthNewsReview.org RetweetedPaul John Scott@pauljohnscott·@garyschwitzer has been a trailblazer in protecting us from bamboozled health reporting.
 Thrilled to get his endorsement here for #Malcharist, which fictionalizes problems he first helped us see.
 https://twitter.com/garyschwitzer/status/1310190671555375109Reply on Twitter 1310210060212150273Retweet on Twitter 13102100602121502733Like on Twitter 13102100602121502733Twitter 1310210060212150273HealthNewsReview.org@HealthNewsRevu·How #COVID19 drug/vaccine decisions might be based on results in dozens of people, not the thousands we read about in the daily tsunami of news about the race in competing trials.
