SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexNew YorkToday’s PaperNew York|Businessman Is Accused Of Mob Tieshttps://nyti.ms/29h2uYUAdvertisementContinue reading the main storySupported byContinue reading the main storyBusinessman Is Accused Of Mob TiesBy Ronald Sullivan June 12, 1992Credit...The New York Times ArchivesSee the article in its original context from June 12, 1992, Section B, Page 1Buy ReprintsView on timesmachineTimesMachine is an exclusive benefit for home delivery and digital subscribers.About the ArchiveThis is a digitized version of an article from The Times’s print archive, before the start of online publication in 1996.
 To preserve these articles as they originally appeared, The Times does not alter, edit or update them.Occasionally the digitization process introduces transcription errors or other problems; we are continuing to work to improve these archived versions.In a glaring example of how hard it is to crack the Mafia's hold over New York City's concrete industry, a businessman given approval by a United States Attorney to buy two large mob-controlled concrete companies and keep them free of corruption was indicted yesterday on charges of making illegal payoffs to the mob and union officials.The United States Attorney in Manhattan, Otto G. Obermaier, said candidly yesterday that he had been wrong in approving the sale.
 He acknowledged "making a bet that did not turn out the way I wanted.
 ""Obviously I fell down," he said.
 "But there is no mechanism, no way I know of, that will stop someone who is intent on doing something wrong from doing it, no matter how hard we try.
 "The defendant, John Quadrozzi, the head of 10 concrete companies and president of the city's concrete association, was approved in 1989 by Mr. Obermaier, the city Board of Estimate and the Federal Court to buy the forfeited assets of the Certified and Big Apple concrete companies.
 The assets were forfeited to the city and Federal governments when the owners were convicted of racketeering.
 'Grave Reservations'Although the purchase was also approved by the Board of Estimate and Judge Mary Johnson Lowe of the Federal Court, it was Mr. Obermaier, as the United States Attorney and the chief law-enforcement official who was party to the agreement, who had the primary responsibility for vouching for Mr. Quadrozzi.At the time, State Attorney General Robert Abrams said he had "grave reservations" about the $12 million purchase by Mr. Quadrozzi and his partner, Michael DeBenedetto, because, Mr. Abrams said, Mr. Quadrozzi had told state investigators that he had previously associated with members of organized crime and had made payoffs to leaders of the Lucchese crime family.But Mr. Obermaier said he was confident that Mr. Quadrozzi would keep his word not to have anything to do with the mob or corrupt construction unions.
 "We are satisfied that there will be no recurrence of illegal conduct," he said then.A spokesman for Mr. Abrams, Edward Barbini, said yesterday, "We're tempted to say to Mr. Obermaier that we told you so.
 "But Mr. Obermaier in effect said it himself, although he added that if he allowed the fear of making a wrong decision "to stop me, I would be paralyzed and should not be in office.
 "Yesterday's indictments followed testimony last month from a former head of the Lucchese crime family.
 The witness, Alphonse D'Arco, testified in Federal Court in Brooklyn at the trial of Vittorio Amuso that Mr. Quadrozzi had made monthly payoffs of $10,000 to $20,000 to Lucchese family members.
 Mr. Amuso is accused of being the current head of the Lucchese family.Mr.
 D'Arco said that the payments extended through 1990 and 1991, after Mr. Quadrozzi's purchase of the two concrete companies.
 He called the payments "shakedowns for labor peace.
 "Federal law-enforcement officials have long said that the Mafia controls the city's concrete industry, driving up concrete costs by 10 to 20 percent.Yesterday, in a statement accompanying the two-count indictment against Mr. Quadrozzi, Mr. Obermaier said that Mr. Quadrozzi lied to Federal officials in September and October of 1989 "about his associations with organized crime" and that he failed "to disclose he had made a number of substantial cash payments to organized crime in connectiuon with the operation of his companies.
 "One of those lies, the statement said, concerned the illegal payments to Mr. D'Arco and two members of the Lucchese organization.From the very day of the purchase, the indictment says, Mr. Quadrozzi continued to make payoffs to the Lucchese family.
 He also made payments of more than $100,000 to labor union officials, the indictment says.
 Mr. Obermaier declined to name the union officials yesterday.Bart Schwartz, a lawyer, was appointed by Federal Judge Mary Johnson Lowe to monitor Mr. Quadrozzi's activities when he was given approval to buy the two companies on March 30, 1990.
 Mr. Schwartz said yesterday that he had uncovered evidence "of suspicious accounting practices" by Mr. Quadrozzi and submitted it to Mr. Obermaier's office.
 "But this is a clear example," Mr. Schwartz said, "of how hard it is to keep clean an industry with well-documented problems.
 "If convicted, Mr. Quadrozzi, who is 63 years old and lives in Hewlett Harbor, L.I., faces a maximum of 10 years in prison.
 He was freed on $500,000 bail yesterday.
 His lawyer said he would plead not guilty.If Mr. Quadrozzi is convicted, it could have profound effects on the concrete industry in New York City.
 Mr. Barbini said Mr. Abrams was concerned about the effect on the industry if Mr. Quadrozzi was forced to give up his companies.
 "Who's going to come in and do the job in such a sordid atmosphere?"
 The United States Attorney in Manhattan, Otto G. Obermaier, said candidly yesterday that he had been wrong in approving the sale.
 The assets were forfeited to the city and Federal governments when the owners were convicted of racketeering.
 Quadrozzi.
 The witness, Alphonse D'Arco, testified in Federal Court in Brooklyn at the trial of Vittorio Amuso that Mr. Quadrozzi had made monthly payoffs of $10,000 to $20,000 to Lucchese family members.
 D'Arco said that the payments extended through 1990 and 1991, after Mr. Quadrozzi's purchase of the two concrete companies.
 He also made payments of more than $100,000 to labor union officials, the indictment says.
 Mr. Obermaier declined to name the union officials yesterday.
 Mr. Schwartz said yesterday that he had uncovered evidence \"of suspicious accounting practices\" by Mr. Quadrozzi and submitted it to Mr. Obermaier's office.
 He was freed on $500,000 bail yesterday.
 His lawyer said he would plead not guilty.
 Mr. Barbini said Mr. Abrams was concerned about the effect on the industry if Mr. Quadrozzi was forced to give up his companies.
