Beruff supported Crist after he mounted an independent bid against Rubio six years ago, attending a 2010 fundraiser for the ex-governor’s campaign even though he had already severed membership with the GOP.
 Recent Stories in Politics   AOC Spews Gloom on Cover of Vanity Fair: America ‘Still in a Lot of Trouble' if Biden Wins   Eliana Johnson: Pence Got the Better of Harris on Court Packing   Harris: Biden Admin Will Repeal Tax Cuts ‘On Day One'   A reporter confronted Beruff about the appearance after an event Wednesday hosted by the Pasco Federated Republican Women’s Club.
 Beruff brushed the question aside.
 "I know that back in 2010 when Charlie Crist was running against Rubio for the Senate seat and Charlie was the Independent, Marco was the Republican, you attended one of Charlie’s fundraisers," the reporter said.
 "I have lots of friends that invite me to very nice houses and I went," Beruff intervened.
 Beruff gave two donations totaling $4,800 to Crist’s campaign in 2009, according to FEC filings.
 Nearly a year later, Crist announced he was abandoning the Republican party to run against Rubio as an independent candidate.
 Several Republicans demanded and received refunds for their donations after Crist switched parties, Beruff did neither.
 Instead, he attended the 2010 Crist fundraiser at the home of his friend Gary Kompothecras, a Florida chiropractor who came under scrutiny by the FBI and Florida’s Division of Insurance Fraud in 2011 over business practices.
 "If Dr. Gary invites me to something at his house, I go, unless I am out of town," Beruff told the reporter Wednesday.
 "He’s a good friend, even though we don’t share political roadways all the time."
 The reporter countered: "Even though, of course Marco was the Republican candidate at the time?"
 Beruff responded that he stopped donating to Crist after the former governor left the GOP, telling the reporter to "follow the money."
 Beruff will face off against Rubio in the Republican Senate primary Aug. 30.
 The former Republican presidential candidate is leading Beruff by more than 60 points—71 percent to seven percent, according to a new poll released Wednesday.
 Rubio, who entered the race last week after walking back an earlier pledge that he wouldn’t run for reelection, has already moved to point out Beruff’s support for Crist in the 2010 Senate race.
 "He’ll have to answer for that," Rubio told Politico the day of his announcement.
 Bookmark the permalink.
 Prior to joining the Free Beacon, she was a news reporter at the Daily Signal.
 Johnson’s work has been featured in outlets such as Newsweek, Fox News and Drudge Report.
 She graduated from James Madison University in 2015 with a B.A.
 in political science and journalism.
 She can be reached at johnson@freebeacon.com.
 Her twitter handle is @nataliejohnsonn.
 Register today!
 Please try again.
 ","ajax_error":"There was an error with the AJAX request: ","name_error":"Please enter a valid name.
 ","email_error":"Please enter a valid email address.
 ","bot_error":"Honeypot fields have been activated.
 Your submission is being flagged as potential spam.
 ","success":"Thanks for subscribing!
 Please check your email for further instructions.
