YOUR HOROSCOPE AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb. 18) You have an inventive mind and are inclined to be progressive.
 You lie a great deal.
 On the other hand you are inclined to be careless and impractical, causing you to make the same mistakes over and over again.
 People think you are stupid.
 PISCES (Feb. 19 - Mar 20) You have a vivid imagination and often think you are being followed by the CIA or FBI.
 You have minor influence over your associates and people resent you for flaunting your power.
 You lack confidence and are generally a coward.
 Pisces people do terrible things to small animals.
 ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19) You are the pioneer type and hold most people in contempt.
 You are quick tempered, impatient, and scornful of advice.
 You are not very nice.
 TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20) You are practical and persistent.
 You have a dogged determination and work like hell.
 Most people think you are a stubborn and bullheaded.
 Taurus people have B.O.
 and fart a lot.
 GEMINI (May 21 - June 20) You are a quick and intelligent thinker.
 People like you because you are bisexual.
 However, you are inclined to expect too much for too little.
 This means you are cheap.
 Gemini people are known for committing incest.
 CANCER (June 21 - July 22) You are sympathetic and understanding to other peoples problems.
 They think you are a sucker.
 You are always putting things off.
 That is why you will never make anything of yourself.
 Most welfare recipients are Cancer people.
 LEO (July 23 - Aug 22) You consider yourself a born leader.
 Others think you are pushy.
 Most Leo people are bullies.
 You are vain and dislike honest criticism.
 Your arrogance is disgusting.
 Leo people are thieves.
 VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sept 22) You are the logical type and hate disorder.
 This nit-picking is sickening to your friends.
 You are cold and unemotional and sometimes fall asleep while making love.
 Virgos make good bus drivers.
 LIBRA (Sept 23 - Oct 22) You are the artistic type and have a difficult time with reality.
 If you are a man, you are more than likely queer.
 Chances for employment and monetary gains are excellent.
 Most Libra women are good prostitutes.
 All Libras have venereal disease.
 SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21) You are shrewd in business and cannot be trusted.
 You will achieve the pinnacle of success because of your total lack of ethics.
 Most Scorpio people are murdered.
 SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21) You are optimistic and enthusiastic.
 You have a reckless tendency to rely on luck since you lack talent.
 The majority of Sagittarians are drunks or dope fiends.
 People laugh at you a great deal.
 CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19) You are conservative and afraid of taking risks.
 You don't do much of anything and are  lazy.
 There has never been a Capricorn of any importance.
 Capricorns should avoid  standing still too long as a dog might think you are a tree and piss on you.
