Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 David Mikkelson                       				smg.ads.load( 'post-featured-1' ); 			     Legend:   Asylum inmate saves the day for a motorist stranded with a flat tire.
 Example:   [Asimov, 1992]    Mr. Anderson’s automobile suddenly developed a flat tire one night, immediately outside the strong iron fence that walled off the local mental institution.
 Annoyed but resigned, Anderson jacked up the car and prepared to replace the wheel.
 He took off the hubcap, unscrewed the bolts, which he placed in the hubcap, which in turn was resting in the road, and placed the spare tire with its hub onto the axle.
 He was about to reach for the hubcap with its bolts when a speeding car raced by and, even as Mr. Anderson jumped back for dear life, it ran over the hubcap, sent it spinning for two blocks, and sent the bolts flying in all directions.
 There was no possibility of finding the bolts in the dark, and, helplessly, Anderson realized he was standing there with a wheel on the axle, unbolted and useless.
 While he wondered what to do, a man from the other side of the fence shouted, “Hey, mister.” Anderson looked up, surprised, and realized that he had attracted the attention of one of the mental inmates, who had been watching the procedures by the light of the street lamps.
 Anderson said cautiously, “Yes?
 Is there something you want?” “I just want to give you some advice.
 Look — just take off the other hubcaps and remove one bolt from each wheel and use them for that spare tire you have.
 The other wheels will be held by four bolts apiece and your spare by three.
 That will hold you till you get to the nearest repair shop, where you can get additional bolts and an additional hubcap.” “Great,” said Anderson.
 “You’re perfectly right.
 Now why didn’t I think of that?” Then, embarrassed, he said, “It’s really amazing that, under the circumstances — uh — you could —” “Because I’m in here?” said the inmate contemptuously.
 “That just means I’m crazy.
 It doesn’t mean I’m stupid.”    Variations:   Sometimes the hapless car repairer loses the tire nuts through his own carelessness: not paying attention to what he’s doing, he spills the fasteners in the ditch.
 The oldest print sighting we have so far collected comes from 1983, but turning to anecdotal resources, we find that one reader recalls being regaled with the tale in Flagstaff, Arizona in 1977,   where it was told of a breakdown outside the state mental hospital outside Phoenix.
 Another heard it in Red Bank, Tennessee, in 1969, when the pastor of a local church told it as a joke.
 A third heard it in New Zealand in the 1950s when it was said to have happened outside Lake Alice, the local mental institution.
 And a fourth heard it told in the 1950s about a State Psychiatric hospital located in Kings Park, New York.
 Rarely do urban legends carry as clear a moral as this particular one does.
 Even as they laugh over the mental patient’s priceless closing line, those who hear the story are receiving a little reminder not to presume additional handicaps when dealing with the disadvantaged.
 In other words, don’t raise your voice to the blind, presuming they must be hard of hearing, and don’t address yourself to the one behind the wheelchair under the foolish assumption that the one being pushed isn’t competent to speak for himself.
 Another anecdote uses the same closing:   [Olsen, 1960] By coincidence, four bridge players once were committed simultaneously to the neuropsychiatric ward of a New Orleans hospital.
 Naturally, they started a game.
 To the table wandered a chronic depressive, who hadn’t uttered a word in two years.
 He looked at the play, mused for a moment, and muttered to one of the players, “Second hand low, you dope.” Months later, well on the road to recovery, he was asked by another patient why he had made his comment.
 “I’m in here because I’m nuts,” came the answer, “not because I’m stupid.”   Barbara “handi crap” Mikkelson      				smg.ads.load( 'post-body-2' ); 			   Sightings:   Look for this legend in the 1983 Jeremy Leven novel, Satan: His Psychotherapy and Cure by the Unfortunate Dr. Kassler, J.S.P.S., and as a brain puzzle in Stewart Tubbs’ 1984 A Systems Approach to Small Group Interaction.
 Several readers have also mentioned having seen it in the 1984 Jackie Chan film, Wheels on Meals.
 Last updated:   31 December 2004        Sources:       Asimov, Isaac.
 Asimov Laughs Again.
 New York: Harper-Collins, 1992.
 ISBN 0-06-016826-9   (p. 256-257).
 Brunvand, Jan Harold.
 The Mexican Pet.
 New York: W. W. Norton, 1986.
 ISBN 0-393-30542-2   (pp.
 63-64).
 smg.ads.load( 'post-body-3' ); 			       Brunvand, Jan Harold.
 Too Good To Be True.
 New York: W. W. Norton, 1999.
 ISBN 0-393-04734-2   (pp.
 113-115).
 Eilbert, Henry.
 What Is a Jewish Joke?
 An Excursion Into Jewish Humor.
 New Jersey; Jason Aronson Inc., 1991.
 ISBN 0-87668-669-2   (p. 27).
 smg.ads.load( 'post-body-4' ); 			       Olsen, John Edward.
 The Mad World of Bridge.
 New York; Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1960.
 (p. 129).
 Also told in:       The Big Book of Urban Legends.
 New York: Paradox Press, 1994.
 ISBN 1-56389-165-4   (p. 14).
 Snopes.com   Since 1994     Help Supercharge Snopes For 2020  				We have big plans.
 We need your help.
 Become a member!
 By   David Mikkelson     Filed Under   ASP Article   Seeking Asylum               				smg.ads.load( 'post-footer-1' ); 			    Editors' Picks         Trump’s ‘Major Fraud’ Speech, Fact-Checked    															4 November 2020													  							News						   "This is an embarrassment to our country," Trump said, before falsely claiming he had already won the election.
 Live Updates: Snopes Coverage of 2020 U.S. Election Day    															3 November 2020													  							News						   If the campaign season is any indication, misinformation is likely to fill social media feeds Tuesday.
 Get the facts here.
 Did Armed Trump Supporters Harass a Biden Bus in Texas?
 2 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   The Alamo City Trump Train Facebook Group was used to organize the convoy's movements.
 Is America Really ‘Rounding the Turn’ on COVID-19?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   We fact-checked the claims of those who sought to downplay the seriousness of the pandemic in the weeks prior to the 2020 presidential election.
 No, Trump Did Not Call for Biden’s Assassination    															29 October 2020													  							Fact Check						   Critics of the president latched onto his use of the phrase "Joe's shot," in a speech in October 2020.
 What did he actually say?
 14 August 2020													  							Fact Check						   Harris long ago distanced herself from the relationship.
 Did DHS Secretly Watermark Ballots in an Election Fraud Sting Against Dems?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Discussing election mechanics is easier when you actually know how elections work.
 Does Your Food Contain Beaver Anal Secretions?
 5 February 2013													  							Fact Check						   Alarmist warnings about beaver-derived castoreum are overblown: its use is now exceedingly rare, and the typical consumer is unlikely to ever encounter castoreum in food.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 Was a Pornhub Logo Accidentally Displayed on CNN?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   This video has racked up more than 7 million views.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			     Snopes.com needs your help.Become a member today.
 Learn How          				smg.ads.load( 'side-3' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 See the whole collection.
 Support Us       					You rely on Snopes, and we rely on you.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
