PoliticsMedia &amp; NewsSocial TrendsReligionInternet &amp; TechScienceHispanicsGlobalMethods      Publications Topics Interactives Datasets Our Experts           May 7, 2013 Gun Homicide Rate Down 49% Since 1993 Peak; Public Unaware Pace of Decline Slows in Past DecadeBy D’Vera Cohn, Paul Taylor, Mark Hugo Lopez, Catherine A. Gallagher, Kim Parker and Kevin T. Maass Note Some trends shown in this report have been updated.
 Rates for overall gun deaths, firearm homicides and firearm suicides have been updated through 2013.
 The rate for non-fatal violent firearms victimizations has been updated through 2014.
 Updated charts and information can be found here.
 Chapter 1: Overview National rates of gun homicide and other violent gun crimes are strikingly lower now than during their peak in the mid-1990s, paralleling a general decline in violent crime, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of government data.
 Beneath the long-term trend, though, are big differences by decade: Violence plunged through the 1990s, but has declined less dramatically since 2000.
 Compared with 1993, the peak of U.S. gun homicides, the firearm homicide rate was 49% lower in 2010, and there were fewer deaths, even though the nation’s population grew.
 The victimization rate for other violent crimes with a firearm—assaults, robberies and sex crimes—was 75% lower in 2011 than in 1993.
 Violent non-fatal crime victimization overall (with or without a firearm) also is down markedly (72%) over two decades.
 Nearly all the decline in the firearm homicide rate took place in the 1990s; the downward trend stopped in 2001 and resumed slowly in 2007.
 The victimization rate for other gun crimes plunged in the 1990s, then declined more slowly from 2000 to 2008.
 The rate appears to be higher in 2011 compared with 2008, but the increase is not statistically significant.
 Violent non-fatal crime victimization overall also dropped in the 1990s before declining more slowly from 2000 to 2010, then ticked up in 2011.
 Despite national attention to the issue of firearm violence, most Americans are unaware that gun crime is lower today than it was two decades ago.
 According to a new Pew Research Center survey, today 56% of Americans believe gun crime is higher than 20 years ago and only 12% think it is lower.
 Looking back 50 years, the U.S. gun homicide rate began rising in the 1960s, surged in the 1970s, and hit peaks in 1980 and the early 1990s.
 (The number of homicides peaked in the early 1990s.)
 The plunge in homicides after that meant that firearm homicide rates in the late 2000s were equal to those not seen since the early 1960s.1 The sharp decline in the U.S. gun homicide rate, combined with a slower decrease in the gun suicide rate, means that gun suicides now account for six-in-ten firearms deaths, the highest share since at least 1981.
 Trends for robberies followed a similar long-term trajectory as homicides (National Research Council, 2004), hitting a peak in the early 1990s before declining.
 This report examines trends in firearm homicide, non-fatal violent gun crime victimization and non-fatal violent crime victimization overall since 1993.
 Its findings on firearm crime are based mainly on analysis of data from two federal agencies.
 Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, using information from death certificates, are the source of rates, counts and trends for all firearm deaths, homicide and suicide, unless otherwise specified.
 The Department of Justice’s National Crime Victimization Survey, a household survey conducted by the Census Bureau, supplies annual estimates of non-fatal crime victimization, including those where firearms are used, regardless of whether the crimes were reported to police.
 Where relevant, this report also quotes from the FBI’s Uniform Crime Reports (see text box at the end of this chapter and the Methodology appendix for more discussion about data sources).
 Researchers have studied the decline in firearm crime and violent crime for many years, and though there are theories to explain the decline, there is no consensus among those who study the issue as to why it happened.
 There also is debate about the extent of gun ownership in the U.S., although no disagreement that the U.S. has more civilian firearms, both total and per capita, than other nations.
 Compared with other developed nations, the U.S. has a higher homicide rate and higher rates of gun ownership, but not higher rates for all other crimes.
 (See Chapter 5 for more details.)
 In the months since the mass shooting at a Newtown, Conn., elementary school in December, the public is paying close attention to the topic of firearms; according to a recent Pew Research Center survey (Pew Research Center, April 2013) no story received more public attention from mid-March to early April than the debate over gun control.
 Reducing crime has moved up as a priority for the public in polling this year.
 Mass shootings are a matter of great public interest and concern.
 They also are a relatively small share of shootings overall.
 According to a Bureau of Justice Statistics review, homicides that claimed at least three lives accounted for less than 1% of all homicide deaths from 1980 to 2008.
 These homicides, most of which are shootings, increased as a share of all homicides from 0.5% in 1980 to 0.8% in 2008, according to the bureau’s data.
 A Congressional Research Service report, using a definition of four deaths or more, counted 547 deaths from mass shootings in the U.S. from 1983 to 2012.2 Looking at the larger topic of firearm deaths, there were 31,672 deaths from guns in the U.S. in 2010.
 Most (19,392) were suicides; the gun suicide rate has been higher than the gun homicide rate since at least 1981, and the gap is wider than it was in 1981.
 Knowledge About Crime Despite the attention to gun violence in recent months, most Americans are unaware that gun crime is markedly lower than it was two decades ago.
 A new Pew Research Center survey (March 14-17) found that 56% of Americans believe the number of crimes involving a gun is higher than it was 20 years ago; only 12% say it is lower and 26% say it stayed the same.
 (An additional 6% did not know or did not answer.)
 Men (46%) are less likely than women (65%) to say long-term gun crime is up.
 Young adults, ages 18 to 29, are markedly less likely than other adults to say long-term crime is up—44% do, compared with more than half of other adults.
 Minority adults are more likely than non-Hispanic whites to say that long-term gun crime is up, 62% compared with 53%.
 Asked about trends in the number of gun crimes “in recent years,” a plurality of 45% believe the number has gone up, 39% say it is about the same and 10% say it has gone down.
 (An additional 5% did not know or did not answer.)
 As with long-term crime, women (57%) are more likely than men (32%) to say that gun crime has increased in recent years.
 So are non-white adults (54%) compared with whites (41%).
 Adults ages 50 and older (51%) are more likely than those ages 18-49 (42%) to believe gun crime is up.
 What is Behind the Crime Decline?
 Researchers continue to debate the key factors behind changing crime rates, which is part of a larger discussion about the predictors of crime.3 There is consensus that demographics played some role: The outsized post-World War II baby boom, which produced a large number of people in the high-crime ages of 15 to 20 in the 1960s and 1970s, helped drive crime up in those years.
 A review by the National Academy of Sciences of factors driving recent crime trends (Blumstein and Rosenfeld, 2008) cited a decline in rates in the early 1980s as the young boomers got older, then a flare-up by mid-decade in conjunction with a rising street market for crack cocaine, especially in big cities.
 It noted recruitment of a younger cohort of drug seller with greater willingness to use guns.
 By the early 1990s, crack markets withered in part because of lessened demand, and the vibrant national economy made it easier for even low-skilled young people to find jobs rather than get involved in crime.
 At the same time, a rising number of people ages 30 and older were incarcerated, due in part to stricter laws, which helped restrain violence among this age group.
 It is less clear, researchers say, that innovative policing strategies and police crackdowns on use of guns by younger adults played a significant role in reducing crime.
 Some researchers have proposed additional explanations as to why crime levels plunged so suddenly, including increased access to abortion and lessened exposure to lead.
 According to one hypothesis, legalization of abortion after the 1973 Supreme Court Roe v. Wade decision resulted in fewer unwanted births, and unwanted children have an increased risk of growing up to become criminals.
 Another theory links reduced crime to 1970s-era reductions in lead in gasoline; children’s exposure to lead causes brain damage that could be associated with violent behavior.
 The National Academy of Sciences review said it was unlikely that either played a major role, but researchers continue to explore both factors.
 The plateau in national violent crime rates has raised interest in the topic of how local differences might influence crime levels and trends.
 Internationally, a decline in crime, especially property crime, has been documented in many countries since the mid-1990s.
 According to the authors of a 30-country study on criminal victimization (Van Dijk et al., 2007), there is no general agreement on all the reasons for this decline.
 They say there is a general consensus that demographic change—specifically, the shrinking proportion of adolescents across Europe—is a common factor causing decreases across Western countries.
 They also cite wider use of security measures in homes and businesses as a factor in reducing property crime.
 In 2010, CDC data counted 11,078 gun homicide deaths, compared with 18,253 in 1993.5 Men and boys make up the vast majority (84% in 2010) of gun homicide victims.
 The firearm homicide rate also is more than five times as high for males of all ages (6.2 deaths per 100,000 people) as it is for females (1.1 deaths per 100,000 people).
 By age group, 69% of gun homicide victims in 2010 were ages 18 to 40, an age range that was 31% of the population that year.
 Gun homicide rates also are highest for adults ages 18 to 24 and 25 to 40.
 A disproportionate share of gun homicide victims are black (55% in 2010, compared with the 13% black share of the population).
 Whites were 25% of victims but 65% of the population in 2010.
 Hispanics were 17% of victims and 16% of the population in 2010.
 The firearm suicide rate (6.3 per 100,000 people) is higher than the firearm homicide rate and has come down less sharply.
 The number of gun suicide deaths (19,392 in 2010) outnumbered gun homicides, as has been true since at least 1981.
 U.S. Firearm Crime Victimization  In 2011, the NCVS estimated there were 181.5 gun crime victimizations for non-fatal violent crime (aggravated assault, robbery and sex crimes) per 100,000 Americans ages 12 and older, compared with 725.3 in 1993.
 In terms of numbers, the NCVS estimated there were about 1.5 million non-fatal gun crime victimizations in 1993 among U.S. residents ages 12 and older, compared with 467,000 in 2011.
 U.S. Other Non-fatal Crime  The victimization rate for all non-fatal violent crime among those ages 12 and older—simple and aggravated assaults, robberies and sex crimes, with or without firearms—dropped 53% from 1993 to 2000, and 49% from 2000 to 2010.
 It rose 17% from 2010 to 2011.
 Although not the topic of this report, the rate of property crimes—burglary, motor vehicle theft and theft—also declined from 1993 to 2011, by 61%.
 The rate for these types of crimes was 351.8 per 100,000 people ages 12 and older in 1993, 190.4 in 2000 and 138.7 in 2011.
 Context  The number of firearms available for sale to or possessed by U.S. civilians (about 310 million in 2009, according to the Congressional Research Service) has grown in recent years, and the 2009 per capita rate of one person per gun had roughly doubled since 1968.
 It is not clear, though, how many U.S. households own guns or whether that share has changed over time.
 Crime stories accounted for 17% of the total time devoted to news on local television broadcasts in 2012, compared with 29% in 2005, according to Pew Research Center’s Project for Excellence in Journalism.
 Crime trails only traffic and weather as the most common type of story on these newscasts.
 About the Data Findings in this report are based on two main data sources: Data on homicides and other deaths are from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, based on information from death certificates filed in state vital statistics offices, which includes causes of death reported by attending physicians, medical examiners and coroners.
 Data also include demographic information about decedents reported by funeral directors, who obtain that information from family members and other informants.
 Population data, used in constructing rates, come from the Census Bureau.
 Most statistics were obtained via the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control’s Web-based Injury Statistics Query and Reporting System (WISQARS), available from URL: www.cdc.gov/ncipc/wisqars.
 Data are available beginning in 1981; suitable population data do not exist for prior years.
 For more details, see Appendix 4.
 Estimates of crime victimization are from the National Crime Victimization Survey, a sample survey conducted for the Bureau of Justice Statistics by the Census Bureau.
 Although the survey began in 1973, this report uses data since 1993, the first year employing an intensive methodological redesign.
 The survey collects information about crimes against people and households, but not businesses.
 It provides estimates of victimization for the population ages 12 and older living in households and non-institutional group quarters; therefore it does not include populations such as homeless people, visiting foreign tourists and business travelers, or those living in institutions such as military barracks or mental hospitals.
 The survey collects information about the crimes of rape, sexual assault, personal robbery, aggravated and simple assault, household burglary, theft, and motor vehicle theft.
 For more details, see Appendix 4.
 Roadmap to the Report The remainder of this report is organized as follows.
 Chapter 2 explores trends in firearm homicide and all firearm deaths, as well as patterns by gender, race and age.
 Chapter 3 analyzes trends in non-fatal violent gun crime victimizations, as well as patterns by gender, race and age.
 Chapter 4 looks at trends and subgroup patterns for non-fatal violent crime victimizations overall.
 Chapter 5 examines issues related to the topic of firearms: crime news, crime as a public priority, U.S. gun ownership data, and comparison of ownership and crime rates with those in other nations.
 Appendices 1-3 consist of detailed tables with annual data for firearm deaths, homicides and suicides, as well as non-fatal firearm and overall non-fatal violent crime victimization, for all groups and by subgroup.
 Appendix 4 explains the report’s methodology.
 Notes on Terminology All references to whites, blacks and others are to the non-Hispanic components of those populations.
 Hispanics can be of any race.
 “Aggravated assault,” as defined by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, is an attack or attempted attack with a weapon, regardless of whether an injury occurred, and an attack without a weapon when serious injury results.
 The terms “firearm” and “gun” are used interchangeably.
 “Homicides,” which come from Centers for Disease Control and Prevention data, are fatal injuries inflicted by another person with intent to injure or kill.
 Deaths due to legal intervention or operations of war are excluded.
 Justifiable homicide is not identified.
 “Robbery,” as defined by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, is a completed or attempted theft, directly from a person, of property or cash by force or threat of force, with or without a weapon, and with or without injury.
 “Sex crime,” as defined by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, includes attempted rape, rape and sexual assault.
 “Simple assault,” as defined by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, is an attack (or attempted assault) without a weapon resulting either in no injury, minor injury (for example, bruises, black eyes, cuts, scratches or swelling) or in undetermined injury requiring less than two days of hospitalization.
 “Victimization” is based on self-reporting in the National Crime Victimization Survey, which includes Americans ages 12 and older.
 For personal crimes (which in this report include assault, robbery and sex crime), it is expressed as a rate based on the number of victimizations per 100,000 U.S. residents ages 12 and older.
 See the Methodology appendix for more details.
 Acknowledgments Many researchers and scholars contributed to this report.
 Senior writer D’Vera Cohn wrote the body of the report.
 Paul Taylor, senior vice president of the Pew Research Center, provided editorial guidance.
 Mark Hugo Lopez, senior researcher and associate director of the Pew Hispanic Center, managed the report’s data analysis and wrote the report’s methodology appendix.
 Catherine A. Gallagher, director of the Cochrane Collaboration of the College for Policy at George Mason University, provided guidance on the report’s data analysis and comments on earlier drafts of the report.
 Lopez and Kim Parker, associate director of the Center’s Social &amp; Demographic Trends project, managed the report’s development and production.
 Kevin T. Maass, research associate at the Cochrane Collaboration at George Mason University’s College for Policy, provided analysis of the FBI’s Uniform Crime Reports.
 Research Assistants Eileen Patten and Anna Brown number-checked the report and prepared charts and tables.
 Patten also conducted background research on trends in crime internationally.
 The report was copy-edited by Marcia Kramer of Kramer Editing Services.
 The report also benefited from a review by Professor Richard Felson of Pennsylvania State University.
 The authors also thank Andrew Kohut and Scott Keeter for their comments on an earlier draft of the report.
 In addition, the authors thank Kohut, Michael Dimock, Keeter and Alec Tyson, our colleagues at the Pew Research Center, for guidance on the crime knowledge public opinion survey questionnaire.
 Jeffrey Passel, senior demographer at the Pew Research Center, provided computational assistance for the report’s analysis of homicide rates by race and ethnicity.
 Finally, Michael Planty and Jennifer Truman of the Bureau of Justice Statistics at the U.S. Department of Justice provided data, invaluable guidance and advice on the report’s analysis of the National Crime Victimization Survey.
 See Cooper and Smith, 2011.
 The rate declined through at least 2010.
 ↩A USA Today analysis in 2013 found that 934 people died since 2006 in mass shootings, defined as claiming at least four victims, and that most were killed by people they knew: http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2013/02/21/mass-shootings-domestic-violence-nra/1937041/ ↩Much of this section draws from Blumstein and Rosenfeld, 2008.
 ↩The diversity of homicide trend by city was the topic of a recent forum, “Putting Homicide Rates in Their Place,” sponsored by the Urban Institute.
 ↩There were 11,101 gun homicide deaths in 2011 and the gun homicide rate remained 3.6 per 100,000 people, according to preliminary CDC data.
 Firearm DeathsU.S.
 Firearm Crime VictimizationU.S.
 Other Non-fatal CrimeContextRoadmap to the Report  Chapter 2: Firearm Deaths Chapter 3: Non-Fatal Violent Firearm Crimes Chapter 4: All Non-Fatal Violent Crimes Chapter 5: Context References Appendix 1: Additional Tables on Firearm Deaths Appendix 2: Additional Tables on Non-Fatal Violent Firearm Crimes Appendix 3: Additional Tables on All Non-Fatal Violent Crimes Appendix 4: Methodology     RelatedReportsOct 21, 2015Gun homicides steady after decline in ’90s; suicide rate edges upReportsMay 7, 2013Gun Homicide and Violent CrimeReportsMay 7, 2013Gun Homicide and Violent CrimeInteractivesFeb 18, 2017Video: How police view their jobsReportsJan 11, 2017Behind the Badge TopicsCriminal JusticeViolence and SocietyPopular On Pew ResearchU.S.
 Politics10/26/2020What the 2020 electorate looks like by party, race and ethnicity, age, education and religionU.S.
 Politics10/09/2020The Trump-Biden presidential contestU.S.
 Politics08/09/2018An examination of the 2016 electorate, based on validated votersU.S.
 Politics10/22/2020Election night marks the end of one phase of campaign 2020 – and the start of anotherU.S.
 Politics09/23/2020The Changing Racial and Ethnic Composition of the U.S. Electorate     Get Pew Research Center data by email         1615 L St. NW, Suite 800 Washington, DC 20036 USA  (+1) 202-419-4300 | Main  (+1) 202-419-4349 | Fax  (+1) 202-419-4372 | Media Inquiries     Research Areas  U.S.
 Politics &amp; Policy Journalism &amp; Media Internet &amp; Technology Science &amp; Society Religion &amp; Public Life Hispanic Trends Global Attitudes &amp; Trends Social &amp; Demographic Trends    Follow Us  Email Newsletters Facebook Twitter Tumblr YouTube RSS    About Pew Research Center Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan fact tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends shaping the world.
 It conducts public opinion polling, demographic research, media content analysis and other empirical social science research.
 Pew Research Center does not take policy positions.
 It is a subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts.
 By downloading the American Trends Panel survey data made available on this web site (\u201cData\u201d) you are agreeing to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
 If you do not agree to be bound by these terms, do not download or use the Data.\n\n\tI.\tLicense.\n\tA.\t The Center hereby grants User a non-exclusive, revocable, limited, non-sublicensable, non-transferable, worldwide, royalty-free license to use the Data solely for (1) research, scholarly or academic purposes, or (2) User\u2019s own personal, non-commercial use.
 The foregoing license is personal to User, and you may not share (or otherwise permit access to) the Data to any other individual or entity, including those within your business or organization.
 Further, you may not reproduce, sell, rent, lease, loan, distribute or sublicense, or otherwise transfer any Data, in whole or in part, to any other party, or use the Data to create any derivative work or product for resale, lease or license.
 Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may incorporate limited portions of the Data in scholarly, research or academic publications or for the purposes of news reporting provided that you:\n\t1.\t acknowledge the source of the Data with express reference to the Center in accordance with the following citation:\n\n\t\u201cPew Research Center\u2019s American Trends Panel\u201d\n\n\t2.\tdo not use the Data in any manner that implies, suggests, or could otherwise be perceived as attributing a particular policy or lobbying objective or opinion to the Center, and\n\t3.\tinclude the following disclaimer: \u201cThe opinions expressed herein, including any implications for policy, are those of the author and not of Pew Research Center.\u201d\n\tB.\tUser acknowledges that, as between the parties, the Center is the sole and exclusive owner of all right, title and interest in the Data.
 Except for the limited license granted herein, this Agreement does not give User any right, title or interest in the Data.\n\n\tII.\tDisclaimers and Limitations of Liability.
 THE DATA IS PROVIDED \u201cAS IS\u201d WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARISING BY LAW OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF COMPLETENESS, NON-INFRINGEMENT, ACCURACY, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 THE CENTER EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS, AND SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR, ANY ERRORS, OMISSIONS, INACCURACIES, OR INTERRUPTIONS IN THE DATA.
 USER ASSUMES ALL RISK ASSOCIATED WITH USE OF THE DATA AND AGREES THAT IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CENTER OR ITS AFFILIATES BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, DAMAGES FOR THE INABILITY TO USE EQUIPMENT OR ACCESS DATA, LOSS OF BUSINESS, LOSS OF REVENUE OR PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS, LOSS OF INFORMATION OR DATA, OR OTHER FINANCIAL LOSS, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF, OR INABILITY TO USE, THE DATA BASED ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, BREACH OF CONTRACT, BREACH OF WARRANTY, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF USER HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\n\n\tIII.\tPrivacy, Confidentiality and Security.\n\tA.\tThe Center respects the privacy of individuals.
 The Center has taken measures to ensure that the Data is devoid of information that could be used to identify individuals (including, but not limited to, names, telephone numbers and email addresses) who participated in or who were the subject of any research surveys or studies used to collect the Data (\u201cPersonally Identifying Information\u201d).
 However, in the event that you discover any such Personally Identifying Information in the Data, you shall immediately notify the Center and refrain from using any such Personally Identifying Information.
 User further agrees not to (and will not allow other to) attempt to ascertain the identity of or derive information about individual survey respondents nor link the individual survey records contained in the Data with other data sets for the purpose of identifying individuals.\n\tB.\tUser shall maintain the Data as confidential, and will not use it, in any way nor disclose it to any third party, except as expressly permitted under this Agreement.
 User agrees, at its sole expense, to take reasonable precautions to protect the confidentiality of Data, at least as stringent as User takes to protect User\u2019s own confidential information, but in no case less than reasonable care.
 The foregoing confidentiality obligations shall not apply to any information which: (a) is known to User prior to receipt from the Center other than as a result of User\u2019s breach of any legal obligation; (b) becomes known (independently of disclosure by the Center) to User directly or indirectly from a source having the legal right to disclose such information; (c) is or becomes publicly known, except through a breach of this Agreement by User; or (d) is required to be disclosed by User to comply with applicable laws or governmental regulations, provided that User gives the Center, to the extent practicable, reasonable prior written notice of such disclosure sufficient to permit the Center to contest such disclosure and User takes reasonable and lawful actions to avoid and\/or minimize the extent of such disclosure.
 The parties agree that any breach of the confidentiality obligations of this Agreement by User will result in irreparable damage to the Center for which it will have no adequate remedy at law.
 Therefore, it is agreed that the Center shall be entitled to equitable relief, including an injunction enjoining any such breach by any court of competent jurisdiction.
 Such injunction shall be without prejudice to any other right or remedy to which the Center may be entitled, including but not limited to any damages resulting from User\u2019s breach of the confidentiality obligations under this Agreement.
 Any failure or delay in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall not operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder.\n\tC.\tUser will immediately notify the Center and cooperate with investigations, and provide any information reasonably requested by the Center if User knows of or suspects any breach of security or potential vulnerability of the Data and will promptly remedy such breach.\n\n\tIV.\tIndemnification.
 User shall indemnify and hold harmless the Center, its affiliates and related organizations, and each of their respective officers, directors, employees, legal representatives, agents, successors and assigns, from and against any damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys\u2019 and professionals\u2019 fees and court costs arising out of any third-party claims based on (a) User\u2019s access or use of the Data; (b) any changes made by User to the Data in accordance with this Agreement; or (c) any breach by User of any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.\n\n\tV.\tTermination.
 This license will terminate (1) automatically without notice from the Center if you fail to comply with the provisions of this Agreement or (2) immediately upon written notice (by e-mail or otherwise) from the Center.
 Upon termination of this Agreement, you agree to destroy all copies of any Data, in whole or in part and in any and all media, in your custody and control.\n\n\tVI.\tGoverning law.
 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the District of Columbia.
 You further agree to submit to the jurisdiction and venue of the courts of the District of Columbia for any dispute relating to this Agreement.
