Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 ","image":"https:\/\/www.snopes.com\/content\/themes\/snopes\/dist\/images\/default-thumb.png","description":"Was the Enterovirus (D68) outbreak caused by an influx of immigrant children?
 Are Immigrant Kids Spreading Enterovirus (EV-D68)?
 Was the Enterovirus (D68) outbreak caused by an influx of immigrant children?
 David Mikkelson                       				smg.ads.load( 'post-featured-1' ); 			      Claim:   An ongoing outbreak of Enterovirus D68 originated with an influx of immigrant children from Central America.
 The CDC does not mention this disease as a ‘border flu’… and if it were a border problem, I would expect more border states to have higher illness rates, like California and Texas!
 What are your thoughts?
 I have read recently about cases of Enterovirus D-68 (EV-D68) occurring in immigrant children … sometimes with fatal results.
 Origins:   An outbreak of Enterovirus D68  first tracked by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in mid-August 2014 began in the Midwest and rapidly spread to nearly every state.
 By October 2014 nearly 700 confirmed cases had been cited by the CDC, and at least one young child is believed to have died of the virus on 10 October 2014 in New Jersey.
 smg.ads.load( 'post-body-2' ); 			   The sudden appearance of Enterovirus D68 prompted much speculation as to the means with which the aggressive strain had entered the public health sphere.
 After cases were first confirmed in Chicago and Kansas City, Missouri, the virus moved east and popped up in New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and New York.
 Like the majority of viruses, Enterovirus has no known treatment or cure and must simply run its course while symptoms of the virus are treated individually.
 As the number of EV-D68 cases rose, rumors began to circulate suggesting that the outbreak was connected to a particular event: an influx of minor children crossing the United States border unaccompanied by parents or guardians that peaked in 2014.
 The proximity of the wave of minor immigrants and the resurgence of Enterovirus led many to conclude the children brought the strain from their home countries and caused the outbreak.
 Some pundits placed blame for the outbreak of EV-D68 and a recent case of Ebola in Dallas at the feet of President Obama.
 Phyllis Schlafly said:    There are all kinds of diseases in the rest of the world, and we don’t want them in this country.
 And it’s Obama’s job to keep them out.
 Out of all the things he’s done, I think this thing of letting these diseased people into this country to infect our own people is just the most outrageous of all.
 That was the purpose of Ellis Island — to have a waiting place where it was decided whether people were healthy enough or responsible enough to come into our country.
 The idea that anybody can just walk in and carry this disease with them is just an outrage, and it is Obama’s fault because he’s responsible for doing it.
 Obama doesn’t want America to believe that we’re exceptional.
 He wants us to be just like everybody else, and if Africa is suffering from Ebola, we ought to join the group and be suffering from it, too.
 That’s his attitude.
 Fueling speculation in part was a research article published in 2013 in Virology Journal titled “Human rhinoviruses and enteroviruses in influenza-like illness in Latin America.” That study was often referenced in such rumors despite the fact it did not specifically address a higher prevalence of such illnesses in the Central/Latin America region.
 Many readers mistakenly conflated the location of the study’s participants with the location of an epidemic or geographic predilection for contracting and transmitting the virus, when in actuality Latin America was simply the place from which data was collected for the research.
 The rumor was addressed by MLive after the claim spread heavily in Michigan.
 Experts explained that Enterovirus strains have been in the United States for more than 50 years, with EV-D68 first being detected in 1987:   Enterovirus was first detected in the United States in 1962, according to the CDC.
 The specific EV-D68 strain was first detected in 1987, said Eden Wells, Clinical Associate Professor of Epidemiology at the University of Michigan School of Public Health.
 “I think that this really sort of argues against the fact that this is a new virus introduced by anybody,” Wells said.
 Dr. Matthew Davis, the state’s Chief Medical Executive with the Michigan Department of Community Health, said that “While it’s theoretically possible that someone from any part of the world can bring an infection to another part of the world, it seems unlikely that children from Central America have brought this particular enterovirus strain into the United States.”   Media figures such as Schlafly and Pat Robertson have speculated that the EV-D68 outbreak started with immigrant children, with Robertson blaming minor migrants who have carried “with them viruses that we were not familiar with in the United States and haven’t built up immunity to.” Given that the particular strain of the virus now affecting Americans was recorded in the U.S. as far back as 1987, the claim that the current outbreak of Enterovirus D68 is due solely or primarily to that strain’s being carried to the U.S. by immigrant children is a problematic one.
 smg.ads.load( 'post-body-3' ); 			   Last updated:   13 October 2014   Sources:        Bremmer, Paul.
 “Mystery Virus Found Where Illegal Alien Kids Sent.”      WND.
 8 October 2014.
 Hananoki, Eric.
 “Conservatives Falsely Blame Undocumented Children for Deadly Enterovirus.”      Media Matters for America.
 8 October 2014.
 Lawler, Emily.
 “Enterovirus Outbreak Likely Not Coming from Undocumented Children, Experts Say.”      MLive.
 6 October 2014.
 Garcia, Josefina et al.
 “Human Rhinoviruses and Enteroviruses in Influenza-Like Illness in Latin America.”      Virology Journal.
 11 October 2013.
 Snopes.com   Since 1994     Help Supercharge Snopes For 2020  				We have big plans.
 We need your help.
 Become a member!
 By   David Mikkelson     Filed Under   ASP Article               				smg.ads.load( 'post-footer-1' ); 			    Editors' Picks         Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 Did DHS Secretly Watermark Ballots in an Election Fraud Sting Against Dems?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Discussing election mechanics is easier when you actually know how elections work.
 Can State Legislatures Override the Choice of Presidential Electors?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   The electoral college is a unique system for indirectly electing the president of the United States.
 Has Starbucks Sold a ‘Christmas Blend’ Since 1984?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Since at least 2015, the popular coffee chain has faced accusations of being "anti-Christmas."
 Snopes Fact-Checks the 2020 US Election, Live    															5 November 2020													  							Collections						   Lies don't wait — and neither does Snopes.
 Did a Fox 2 Detroit Report Expose Voter Fraud in the 2020 Election?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   An image graphic detailing an assortment of potential election crimes was shared on social media the day after the 2020 presidential election.
 Was the 2020 U.S. Presidential Election Winner Announced Yet?
 7 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   For days, the world waited to see who American voters want to serve as the 46th president of the United States — Donald Trump or Joe Biden.
 Were Trump Ballots Marked with Sharpies Disqualified in Arizona?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Arizona was one of several states apparently won by Joe Biden in 2020 that were targeted by election-related conspiracy theories.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			     Snopes.com needs your help.Become a member today.
 Learn How          				smg.ads.load( 'side-3' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 See the whole collection.
 Support Us       					You rely on Snopes, and we rely on you.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
