2010 Jan 1;81(1):29-30.Clinical QuestionIs acupuncture effective in preventing migraine headaches?Evidence-Based AnswerAcupuncture appears to be effective for prophylaxis of migraine headaches, and may be slightly better than pharmacotherapy.
 Sham acupuncture is just as effective as real acupuncture.
 Most patients with migraine headaches successfully abort acute headaches with medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or selective 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor agonists (e.g., sumatriptan [Imitrex]).
 However, some patients with frequent migraines require prophylactic interventions in addition to acute treatments.
 Beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, tricyclic antidepressants, and some antiepileptic medications (topiramate [Topamax] and valproic acid [Depakene]) have been shown to be effective preventive medications.
 Alternative therapies, such as acupuncture, cognitive behavior therapy (CBT), relaxation, and biofeedback have also been suggested for migraine treatment.In this meta-analysis, the authors examined 22 trials with a total of 4,419 patients to address the effectiveness of acupuncture as a migraine prophylactic intervention.
 Pooled analysis of six heterogeneous trials indicated that headache frequency, headache days, and headache scores three to four months after randomization were more favorable in patients receiving acupuncture compared with patients receiving routine treatment or no prophylactic treatment.
 Because the studies were so heterogeneous, reporting effect size may be misleading.
 Log in &gt;&gt;                Purchase Access:See My OptionscloseAlready a member or subscriber?
 Log in Best Value!Get Full AccessFrom $140SubscribeIncludes:Immediate, unlimited access to all AFP contentMore than 130 CME credits per yearAccess to the AFP appPrint delivery option Access This Issue$39.95 Includes:Immediate access to this issue  CME credits in this issue                            To see the full article, log in or purchase access.JANELLE GUIRGUIS-BLAKE, MDAuthor disclosure: Nothing to disclose.SOURCELinde K,   Allais G,   Brinkhaus B,   Manheimer E,   Vickers A,   White AR.
 Acupuncture for migraine prophylaxis.
 Cochrane Database Syst Rev.
 2009;(1):CD001218.REFERENCESshow all references1.
 Kaniecki R, Lucas S. Treatment of primary headache: preventive treatment of migraine.
 In: Standards of Care for Headache Diagnosis and Treatment.
 Chicago, Ill.: National Headache Foundation; 2004:40–52....2.
 Mauskop A, Graff-Radford S. Special treatment situations: alternative headache treatments.
 In: Standards of Care for Headache Diagnosis and Treatment.
 Chicago, Ill.: National Headache Foundation; 2004:115–122.3.
 Silberstein SD.
 Practice parameter: evidence-based guidelines for migraine headache (an evidence-based review): report of the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology [published correction appears in Neurology.
 2000;56(1):142].
 Neurology.
 2000;55(6):754–762.4.
 Campbell JK, Penzien DB, Wall EM, for the U.S. Headache Consortium.
 Evidence-based guidelines for migraine headache: behavioral and physical treatments.
 http://www.aan.com/professionals/practice/pdfs/gl0089.pdf.
 This content is owned by the AAFP.
 A person viewing it online may make one printout of the material and may use that printout only for his or her personal, non-commercial reference.
 This material may not otherwise be downloaded, copied, printed, stored, transmitted or reproduced in any medium, whether now known or later invented, except as authorized in writing by the AAFP.
 Contact      afpserv@aafp.org for copyright questions and/or permission requests.
 Sign up for the free AFP email table of contents.
 81/No.
 1(January 1, 2010) / 
  
   Cochrane for Clinicians: Effectiveness of Acupuncture for Migraine Prophylaxis
  
           AFP Home       Issues       AFP By Topic       Collections       CME Quiz       Blog       Multimedia         Authors       Reviewers       Subscribers       Advertisers         Subscribe/Renew       Manage Subscription       AFP By Email       Contact AFP       Careers       Using AAFP Content       Back Issues         About AFP       Publication Ethics in AFP       AFP Podcast       AFP Digital       EBM Toolkit       FAQs       Copyright © 2020 American Academy of Family Physicians.
 All rights Reserved.
