Jump to main content   Jump to navigation                       This is historical material “frozen in time”.
 The website is no longer updated and links to external websites and some internal pages may not work.
 Home Briefing RoomFrom the News RoomLatest NewsRead the latest blog posts from 1600 Pennsylvania Ave Share-WorthyCheck out the most popular infographics and videos PhotosView the photo of the day and other galleries Video GalleryWatch behind-the-scenes videos and more Live EventsTune in to White House events and statements as they happen Music &amp; Arts PerformancesSee the lineup of artists and performers at the White House  From the Press OfficeYour Weekly Address Speeches &amp; Remarks Press Briefings Statements &amp; Releases White House Schedule Presidential Actions Legislation Nominations &amp; Appointments Disclosures   IssuesPopular TopicsThe Record Cabinet Exit Memos Criminal Justice Reform Cuba See All  Top IssuesCivil Rights Climate Change Economy Education Foreign Policy Health Care Iran Deal Immigration Action  MoreDefense Disabilities Ethics Equal Pay Homeland Security Reducing Gun Violence Rural Service  MoreSeniors &amp; Social Security Taxes Technology Trade Urban and Economic Mobility Veterans Women   The AdministrationPeoplePresident Barack Obama Vice President Joe Biden First Lady Michelle Obama Dr. Jill Biden The Cabinet Executive Office of the President Senior White House Leadership Other Advisory Boards  Executive OfficesOffice of Management and Budget Office of Science and Technology Policy Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council See All  InitiativesLets Move Joining Forces Reach Higher My Brother's Keeper Precision Medicine  Special EventsState of the Union Inauguration Medal of Freedom   ParticipateDigitalFollow Us on Social Media We the Geeks Hangouts Mobile Apps Developer Tools Tools You Can Use  Join UsTours &amp; Events Jobs with the Administration Internships White House Fellows Presidential Innovation Fellows United States Digital Service Leadership Development Program  Speak OutWe the People Petitions Contact the White House Citizens Medal Champions of Change   1600 PennInside the White HouseWest Wing Tour Eisenhower Executive Office Building Tour Video Series Décor and Art Holidays See All  History &amp; GroundsPresidents First Ladies The Vice President's Residence &amp; Office Eisenhower Executive Office Building Camp David Air Force One  Our GovernmentThe Executive Branch The Legislative Branch The Judicial Branch The Constitution Federal Agencies &amp; Commissions Elections &amp; Voting State &amp; Local Government Resources        Search form  Search                  You are hereHomeBlog      One More Step Towards Health Insurance Reform           March 21, 2010 at 4:16 PM ET by Dan Pfeiffer   Twitter Facebook Email      Summary: Today, the President announced that he will be issuing an executive order after the passage of the health insurance reform law that will reaffirm its consistency with longstanding restrictions on the use of federal funds for abortion.
 Today, the President announced that he will be issuing an executive order after the passage of the health insurance reform law that will reaffirm its consistency with longstanding restrictions on the use of federal funds for abortion.
 While the legislation as written maintains current law, the executive order provides additional safeguards to ensure that the status quo is upheld and enforced, and that the health care legislation’s restrictions against the public funding of abortions cannot be circumvented.
 The President has said from the start that this health insurance reform should not be the forum to upset longstanding precedent.
 The health care legislation and this executive order are consistent with this principle.
 The President is grateful for the tireless efforts of leaders on both sides of this issue to craft a consensus approach that allows the bill to move forward.
 A text of the pending executive order follows:  EXECUTIVE ORDER - - - - - - - ENSURING ENFORCEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF ABORTION RESTRICTIONS IN THE PATIENT PROTECTION AND AFFORDABLE CARE ACT By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the “Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act” (approved March __, 2010), I hereby order as follows: Section 1.
 Policy.
 Following the recent passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“the Act”), it is necessary to establish an adequate enforcement mechanism to ensure that Federal funds are not used for abortion services (except in cases of rape or incest, or when the life of the woman would be endangered), consistent with a longstanding Federal statutory restriction that is commonly known as the Hyde Amendment.
 The purpose of this Executive Order is to establish a comprehensive, government-wide set of policies and procedures to achieve this goal and to make certain that all relevant actors—Federal officials, state officials (including insurance regulators) and health care providers—are aware of their responsibilities, new and old.
 The Act maintains current Hyde Amendment restrictions governing abortion policy and extends those restrictions to the newly-created health insurance exchanges.
 Under the Act, longstanding Federal laws to protect conscience (such as the Church Amendment, 42 U.S.C.
 §300a-7, and the Weldon Amendment, Pub.
 L. No.
 111-8, §508(d)(1) (2009)) remain intact and new protections prohibit discrimination against health care facilities and health care providers because of an unwillingness to provide, pay for, provide coverage of, or refer for abortions.
 Numerous executive agencies have a role in ensuring that these restrictions are enforced, including the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).
 Section 2.
 Strict Compliance with Prohibitions on Abortion Funding in Health Insurance Exchanges.
 The Act specifically prohibits the use of tax credits and cost-sharing reduction payments to pay for abortion services (except in cases of rape or incest, or when the life of the woman would be endangered) in the health insurance exchanges that will be operational in 2014.
 The Act also imposes strict payment and accounting requirements to ensure that Federal funds are not used for abortion services in exchange plans (except in cases of rape or incest, or when the life of the woman would be endangered) and requires state health insurance commissioners to ensure that exchange plan funds are segregated by insurance companies in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, OMB funds management circulars, and accounting guidance provided by the Government Accountability Office.
 I hereby direct the Director of OMB and the Secretary of HHS to develop, within 180 days of the date of this Executive Order, a model set of segregation guidelines for state health insurance commissioners to use when determining whether exchange plans are complying with the Act’s segregation requirements, established in Section 1303 of the Act, for enrollees receiving Federal financial assistance.
 The guidelines shall also offer technical information that states should follow to conduct independent regular audits of insurance companies that participate in the health insurance exchanges.
 In developing these model guidelines, the Director of OMB and the Secretary of HHS shall consult with executive agencies and offices that have relevant expertise in accounting principles, including, but not limited to, the Department of the Treasury, and with the Government Accountability Office.
 Upon completion of those model guidelines, the Secretary of HHS should promptly initiate a rulemaking to issue regulations, which will have the force of law, to interpret the Act’s segregation requirements, and shall provide guidance to state health insurance commissioners on how to comply with the model guidelines.
 Section 3.
 Community Health Center Program.
 The Act establishes a new Community Health Center (CHC) Fund within HHS, which provides additional Federal funds for the community health center program.
 Existing law prohibits these centers from using federal funds to provide abortion services (except in cases of rape or incest, or when the life of the woman would be endangered), as a result of both the Hyde Amendment and longstanding regulations containing the Hyde language.
 Under the Act, the Hyde language shall apply to the authorization and appropriations of funds for Community Health Centers under section 10503 and all other relevant provisions.
 I hereby direct the Secretary of HHS to ensure that program administrators and recipients of Federal funds are aware of and comply with the limitations on abortion services imposed on CHCs by existing law.
 Such actions should include, but are not limited to, updating Grant Policy Statements that accompany CHC grants and issuing new interpretive rules.
 Section 4.
 General Provisions.
 (a) Nothing in this Executive Order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:  (i) authority granted by law or presidential directive to an agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
 (b) This Executive Order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
 (c) This Executive Order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity against the United States, its departments, agencies, entities, officers, employees or agents, or any other person.
 THE WHITE HOUSE,             Dan Pfeiffer Former Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor            The Final State of the Union Watch President Obama's final State of the Union address.
 The Supreme Court Read what the President is looking for in his next Supreme Court nominee.
 Find Your Park Take a look at America's three newest national monuments.
