Skip to main content Skip to "About government"     Language selection            Français                        Government of Canada      Search   Search Canada.ca             Search       Menu Main Menu   Jobs and the workplace Immigration and citizenship Travel and tourism Business and industry Benefits Health Taxes Environment and natural resources National security and defence Culture, history and sport Policing, justice and emergencies Transport and infrastructure Canada and the world Money and finances Science and innovation   You are here: Home Health Diseases and conditions Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) Coronavirus disease (COVID-19): Canada’s response Canada’s COVID-19 Economic Response Plan         Support for Individuals    Back to list of measures Support for Businesses     Support for individuals and families Increasing the Canada Child Benefit We are providing an extra $300 per child through the Canada Child Benefit (CCB) for 2019-20.
 This will mean approximately $550 more for the average family.
 This benefit will be delivered as part of the scheduled CCB payment in May.
 Those who already receive the Canada Child Benefit do not need to re-apply.
 Apply for the Canada Child Benefit  Special Goods and Services Tax credit payment  We are providing a one-time special payment by early May through the Goods and Services Tax credit for low- and modest-income families.
 The average additional benefit will be close to $400 for single individuals and close to $600 for couples.
 There is no need to apply for this payment.
 If you are eligible, you will get it automatically.
 Extra time to file income tax returns We are deferring the filing due date for the 2019 tax returns of individuals.
 For individuals (other than trusts), the return filing due date will be deferred until June 1, 2020.
 We will also allow any new income tax balances due, or instalments, to be deferred until after August 31, 2020 without incurring interest or penalties.
 Learn more   Note: If you expect to receive benefits under the Goods and Services Tax credit or the Canada Child Benefit, we encourage you to not delay your 2019 return filing to ensure that your entitlements are properly determined.
 Mortgage support Canadian banks have committed to work with their customers on a case-by-case basis to find solutions to help them manage hardships caused by COVID-19.
 Canadians who are impacted by COVID-19 and experiencing financial hardship as a result should contact their financial institution regarding flexibility for a mortgage deferral.
 This allows flexibility to be available − when needed − to those who need it the most.
 Learn more Contact your financial institution for further mortgage assistance.
 The Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation and other mortgage insurers offer tools to lenders that can assist homeowners who may be experiencing financial difficulty.
 These include payment deferral, loan re-amortization, capitalization of outstanding interest arrears and other eligible expenses, and special payment arrangements.
 Canada’s mortgage insurers are committed to providing homeowners with solutions to mitigate temporary financial hardship related to COVID-19.
 This includes permitting lenders to defer up to six monthly mortgage payments (interest and principal) for impacted borrowers.
 Deferred payments are added to the outstanding principal balance and subsequently repaid throughout the life of the mortgage.
 Learn more: Financial Consumer Agency of Canada (FCAC)      Support for people facing unemployment The new Canada Emergency Response Benefit We will provide a taxable benefit of $2,000 a month for up to 4 months to:  workers who must stop working due to COVID19 and do not have access to paid leave or other income support.
 workers who are sick, quarantined, or taking care of someone who is sick with COVID-19.
 working parents who must stay home without pay to care for children that are sick or need additional care because of school and daycare closures.
 workers who still have their employment but are not being paid because there is currently not sufficient work and their employer has asked them not to come to work.
 wage earners and self-employed individuals, including contract workers, who would not otherwise be eligible for Employment Insurance.
 Application details will be available through My CRA and My Service Canada, early April.
 Learn more   This benefit replaces the previously announced Emergency Care Benefit and the Emergency Support Benefit.
 Apply for Employment Insurance If you were recently laid off or have reduced hours and qualify for Employment Insurance benefits, you can submit your request today.
 Apply for Employment Insurance benefits      Support for people who are sick, quarantined, or in directed self-isolation The new Canada Emergency Response Benefit We will provide a taxable benefit of $2,000 a month for up to 4 months to:  workers who must stop working due to COVID-19 and do not have access to paid leave or other income support.
 workers who are sick, quarantined, or taking care of someone who is sick with COVID-19.
 working parents who must stay home without pay to care for children that are sick or need additional care because of school and daycare closures.
 workers who still have their employment but are not being paid because there is currently not sufficient work and their employer has asked them not to come to work.
 wage earners and self-employed individuals, including contract workers, who would not otherwise be eligible for Employment Insurance.
 Application details will be available through My CRA and My Service Canada, early April.
 Learn more    This benefit replaces the previously announced Emergency Care Benefit and the Emergency Support Benefit.
 Improved access to Employment Insurance sickness benefits If you are sick, quarantined or have been directed to self-isolate, we will waive the requirement to provide a medical certificate to access EI sickness benefits.
 Apply for Employment Insurance sickness benefits     Support for people who are unable to work The new Canada Emergency Response Benefit We will provide a taxable benefit of $2,000 a month for up to 4 months to:  workers who must stop working due to COVID-19 and do not have access to paid leave or other income support.
 workers who are sick, quarantined, or taking care of someone who is sick with COVID-19.
 working parents who must stay home without pay to care for children that are sick or need additional care because of school and daycare closures.
 workers who still have their employment but are not being paid because there is currently not sufficient work and their employer has asked them not to come to work.
 wage earners and self-employed individuals, including contract workers, who would not otherwise be eligible for Employment Insurance.
 Application details will be available through My CRA and My Service Canada, early April.
 Learn more   This benefit replaces the previously announced Emergency Care Benefit and the Emergency Support Benefit.
 Support for people who need it most A new Indigenous Community Support Fund We will provide $305 million for a new distinctions-based Indigenous Community Support Fund to address immediate needs in First Nations, Inuit, and Métis Nation communities.
 Contact Indigenous Services Canada  Enhancing the Reaching Home initiative We continue to support people experiencing homelessness during the COVID-19 outbreak by providing $157.5 million to the Reaching Home initiative.
 The funding could be used for a range of needs such as purchasing beds and physical barriers for social distancing and securing accommodation to reduce overcrowding in shelters.
 Learn more about the Reaching Home initiative  Support for women’s shelters and sexual assault centres We are supporting women and children fleeing violence, by providing up to $50 million to women’s shelters and sexual assault centres to help with their capacity to manage or prevent an outbreak in their facilities.
 Support for seniors Reduced minimum withdrawals for Registered Retirement Income Funds  We are reducing the required minimum withdrawals from Registered Retirement Income Funds (RRIFs) by 25% for 2020.
 Learn more about Registered Retirement Income Funds     Support for students and recent graduates A moratorium on the repayment of Canada Student Loans Effective March 30, we are placing a six-month interest-free moratorium on the repayment of Canada Student Loans for all student loan borrowers.
 No payment will be required and interest will not accrue during this time.
 Students do not need to apply for the repayment pause.
 Learn more about the moratorium on the repayment       Report a problem or mistake on this page                 Please select all that apply:  A link, button or video is not working    It has a spelling mistake    Information is missing    Information is outdated or wrong    Login error when trying to access an account (e.g.
 My Service Canada Account)     GC Key access    SecureKey Concierge (Banking Credential) access     Personal Access Code (PAC) problems or EI Access Code (AC) problems    Social Insurance Number (SIN) validation problems    Other login error not in this list     I can't find what I'm looking for    Other issue not in this list    Submit    Thank you for your help!
 You will not receive a reply.
 For enquiries, contact us.
 Date modified: 2020-03-25           About government  Contact us Departments and agencies Public service and military News Treaties, laws and regulations Government-wide reporting Prime Minister About government Open government        About this site  Social media Mobile applications About Canada.ca Terms and conditions Privacy    Top of page            _satellite.pageBottom();
