TODAY  Watch TODAY All Day Live  NBC News  MSNBC       On The Show Food Shop Health &amp; Wellness Parents Home Style Pop Culture TMRW      Share this —               Search   Sections  Food  Style  Health &amp; Wellness  Parenting  Home  Pop Culture  Shop  Videos  Show  TODAY  3rd Hour of TODAY  TODAY with Hoda &amp; Jenna  Weekend TODAY  Sunday TODAY with Willie Geist TODAY All Day Watch Full Episodes  More News Pets &amp; Animals Trending Citi Music Series Recipes Newsletters Parenting Team One Small Thing Careers Money Food Club TODAY Original Videos TODAY Classes Coupons TMRW  Follow today           Search    Facebook  Twitter  Email  SMS  Print  Whatsapp  Reddit  Pocket  Flipboard  Pinterest  Linkedin  Health &amp; WellnessDr.
 Fauci on coronavirus fears: No need to change lifestyle yet03:53Share this -copiedDr.
 Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, joins Weekend TODAY to discuss the threat of coronavirus and the possibility of the disease’s “community spread.”Feb.
 With Thanksgiving three weeks away, doctors are warning against large gatherings to slow the spread of the virus.
 NBC’s Meagan Fitzgerald reports for Weekend TODAY.
 Meadows has often traveled with Trump on the campaign trail and was at the election party held at the White House earlier this week.
 NBC’s Kelly O’Donnell reports for Weekend TODAY.
 “Because I have a great support system, I’m a little ahead of the game,” he said.
 Following a visit to his doctor, where an elevated PSA level was detected in his bloodwork, he had an MRI and a biopsy, and the diagnosis was confirmed.
 Al is due to have surgery to have his prostate removed next week.
 Cases are on the rise in 43 states.
 NBC national correspondent Miguel Almaguer reports for TODAY.
 They recommend using breath to calm anxiety and keeping a “worry journal” as a way to set your stress aside before bed.
 NBC national correspondent Miguel Almaguer reports for TODAY.
 They also share that they will be taking time for themselves during the day to do a workout together.
 Among his tips: remember what you’re grateful for, make a list of the things that are stressing you, and talk to others about them.
 He also leads the TODAY anchors and viewers through a calming breathing exercise.
 80%.” His oncologist, Dr. Mark Pomerantz, also discusses the prevalence of prostate cancer in men and symptoms to look for.
 She also shares tips for reducing stress brought on by Election Day uncertainty.
 NBC investigative and consumer correspondent Vicky Nguyen joins TODAY with tips on how to stay safe while casting your ballot.
 But he says that could be avoided if people wear masks, avoid gatherings and observe social distancing.
 He also says he thinks “in-person voting is very safe” if people follow basic precautions and plan their vote ahead.
 Meanwhile, extreme new lockdowns are beginning in England and across Europe as COVID cases surge there.
 TODAY senior international correspondent Keir Simmons reports from London.
 NBC's Gabe Gutierrez reports for TODAY from Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
 NBC News contributor Dr. Nahid Bhadelia joins Sunday TODAY’s Willie Geist to share words of caution about the coming winter months.
 With Thanksgiving three weeks away, doctors are warning against large gatherings to slow the spread of the virus.
 NBC’s Meagan Fitzgerald reports for Weekend TODAY.
 Meadows has often traveled with Trump on the campaign trail and was at the election party held at the White House earlier this week.
 NBC’s Kelly O’Donnell reports for Weekend TODAY.
 “Because I have a great support system, I’m a little ahead of the game,” he said.
 Following a visit to his doctor, where an elevated PSA level was detected in his bloodwork, he had an MRI and a biopsy, and the diagnosis was confirmed.
 Al is due to have surgery to have his prostate removed next week.
 Cases are on the rise in 43 states.
 NBC national correspondent Miguel Almaguer reports for TODAY.
 They recommend using breath to calm anxiety and keeping a “worry journal” as a way to set your stress aside before bed.
 NBC national correspondent Miguel Almaguer reports for TODAY.
 They also share that they will be taking time for themselves during the day to do a workout together.
 Among his tips: remember what you’re grateful for, make a list of the things that are stressing you, and talk to others about them.
 He also leads the TODAY anchors and viewers through a calming breathing exercise.
 80%.” His oncologist, Dr. Mark Pomerantz, also discusses the prevalence of prostate cancer in men and symptoms to look for.
 She also shares tips for reducing stress brought on by Election Day uncertainty.
 NBC investigative and consumer correspondent Vicky Nguyen joins TODAY with tips on how to stay safe while casting your ballot.
 But he says that could be avoided if people wear masks, avoid gatherings and observe social distancing.
 He also says he thinks “in-person voting is very safe” if people follow basic precautions and plan their vote ahead.
 Meanwhile, extreme new lockdowns are beginning in England and across Europe as COVID cases surge there.
 TODAY senior international correspondent Keir Simmons reports from London.
 NBC's Gabe Gutierrez reports for TODAY from Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
 NBC News contributor Dr. Nahid Bhadelia joins Sunday TODAY’s Willie Geist to share words of caution about the coming winter months.
 Read stories about extraordinary people, heroes, royals and TODAY show guests.
 Weekend TODAY looks back at the key moments of the historic week.
 ","tease":"Why does the 2020 election feel similar to the 2000 election?
 ","social":"Why does the 2020 election feel similar to the 2000 election?
 Reporting for Weekend TODAY, NBC’s Kerry Sanders takes a look back and highlights the similarities and differences between the two elections.
 ","tease":"Will we know who becomes the next US president on Saturday?
 ","social":"Will we know who becomes the next US president on Saturday?
 Meet the Press moderator Chuck Todd joins Weekend TODAY with a look at the numbers, what it would take to make an official call and why it seems to be taking so long.
 With Thanksgiving three weeks away, doctors are warning against large gatherings to slow the spread of the virus.
 NBC’s Meagan Fitzgerald reports for Weekend TODAY.
 As of early Saturday morning, there’s a gap of over 29,800 votes between Biden and Trump, with Biden leading.
 Trump would need about 60% of the 70,000 ballots to close or surpass the gap.
 While some have criticized the state on the speed of ballot counting, the Clark County registrar office says there’s no way to make the process go faster.
 NBC’s Jo Ling Kent reports for Weekend TODAY from Las Vegas.
 ","tease":"Why are there so many provisional ballots in Pennsylvania?
 ","social":"Why are there so many provisional ballots in Pennsylvania?
 Reporting for Weekend TODAY, NBC’s Dasha Burns explains why there are so many during the 2020 election.
 If Democrats win those two seats in the runoffs, the upper chamber will be split 50/50, and Kamala Harris would be the tiebreaker if she and Joe Biden win the presidential election.
 NBC’s Garrett Haake reports for Weekend TODAY.
 The secretary of state had earlier ordered all the counties to keep those ballots separate, because of pending lawsuits over the deadline.
 Late Friday, Justice Samuel Alito did order election officials to keep the ballots separate, but he did not block the state from counting them.
 NBC justice correspondent Pete Williams reports for Weekend TODAY.
 If Biden gains a lead of more than .5%, he’d likely avoid a recount in the state.
 ","tease":"What would a vote recount in Georgia look like?
 ","social":"What would a vote recount in Georgia look like?
 The state’s Republican secretary of state already says there will be a recount and we may not know who wins the state until Thanksgiving or later.
 NBC’s Blayne Alexander reports for Weekend TODAY from Atlanta on what a recount would entail.
 Uncounted ballots are a mix of mail-in and provisional ballots.
 NBC’s Stephanie Gosk reports for Weekend TODAY from Philadelphia.
 Meadows has often traveled with Trump on the campaign trail and was at the election party held at the White House earlier this week.
 NBC’s Kelly O’Donnell reports for Weekend TODAY.
 “I had such a big lead in all of these states late into election night, only to see the leads miraculously disappear as the days went by.
 Perhaps these leads will return as our legal proceedings move forward,” he tweeted.
 NBC’s Kelly O’Donnell reports for Weekend TODAY from the White House.
 If Biden does win 270 electoral votes, his campaign says it doesn’t matter whether Trump concedes or not because “the United States government is perfectly capable of escorting trespassers out of the White House.” NBC’s Geoff Bennett reports for Weekend TODAY from Wilmington, Delaware.
 Rich Lowry, editor of the conservative National Review, says Joe Biden should not “engage Trump” and McCaskill adds that there will be a lot of pressure on Republicans in Congress and former presidents to push Trump to “do the right thing.
 Joe Biden’s “sizable lead” there is getting smaller, but there’s still 300,000 ballots left to count.
 Plus, NBC’s Jacob Soboroff reports live from Las Vegas on the latest in Nevada.
 Chuck Todd explains","tease":"How does a voting recount work?
 Chuck Todd explains","social":"How does a voting recount work?
 Watch as he jumps into a brief explainer about how exactly the recount process works.
 ","tease":"Could yet-uncounted votes in Pennsylvania’s Allegheny County be pivotal?
 ","social":"Could yet-uncounted votes in Pennsylvania’s Allegheny County be pivotal?
 When those votes are counted, they could be important, she says.
 “There is no talk of a concession,” one official told him, Alexander says.
 He warns against internet rumors and stresses that “there is no evidence of anything happen fraudulently” as the vote counts continue; in fact, officials report that the counts are going remarkably smoothly.
 “We are confident we will find votes improperly harvested,” the Trump campaign’s release says, while also alleging irregularities in Nevada and anticipating victory in Arizona.
 He says the remaining Pennsylvania ballots are more difficult to count because they may have problems such as incorrect signatures.
 The biggest share is from Gwinnett County, where Joe Biden is currently leading, but adds that President Trump is leading in three other counties those votes are coming from.
 Also still to come: overseas votes.
 Biden has a very narrow lead, but the close race will almost certainly trigger a recount in the state.
 “Math doesn’t care what your feelings are,” he says, predicting that Joe Biden’s lead in the state will expand.
 In Wilmington, Delaware, NBC’s Kristen Welker reports that Biden campaign staff are said to be elated and delighted by the latest developments, and that we may hear from Biden himself on Friday.
 More absentee ballots are still to be counted and the Pennsylvania race is still considered too close to call, as is Georgia’s.
 Savannah Guthrie and NBC Capitol Hill correspondent Kasie Hunt discuss President Trump’s legal options to challenge the Pennsylvania count.
 More votes are still to be counted and the race is still too close to call.
 Representing New Orleans: Chef Nina Compton and her Caribbean hot dogs with New Orleans-style Creole potato salad.
 For Tampa Bay: Chef Kenny Neal, making jerk chicken sliders with mango slaw.
 Following a visit to his doctor, where an elevated PSA level was detected in his bloodwork, he had an MRI and a biopsy, and the diagnosis was confirmed.
 Al is due to have surgery to have his prostate removed next week.
 NBC’s Joe Fryer reports for TODAY.
 Cases are on the rise in 43 states.
 NBC national correspondent Miguel Almaguer reports for TODAY.
 Todd says that we could know the outcome of the election by the end of the day, and Mitchell expresses doubts there will be a recount in Pennsylvania.
 ","tease":"Could ballots that arrived after Election Day change outcome in Pennsylvania?
 ","social":"Could ballots that arrived after Election Day change outcome in Pennsylvania?
 Savannah Guthrie discusses the ramifications on TODAY, joined by Meet the Press moderator Chuck Todd and NBC Capitol Hill correspondent Kasie Hunt.
 He says there was “a massive quantity of mail-in ballots,” but election officials were not allowed to start counting them until the polls closed Tuesday.
 He says President Trump’s baseless claims of fraud Thursday night were “hard to watch” and that he has seen no evidence of fraud.
 Despite baseless claims from President Trump, there is no evidence of widespread voter fraud.
 NBC’s Kristen Welker reports for TODAY from Biden headquarters in Wilmington, Delaware.
 NBC’s Peter Alexander reports for TODAY from the White House on the president’s speech and the reaction to it.
 If Biden prevails, he would be the first Democratic presidential candidate to win the state since 1992.
 NBC’s Blayne Alexander reports for TODAY from Atlanta.
 President Trump still has a slender lead, votes still to be counted could give Joe Biden victory.
 NBC’s Stephanie Gosk reports for TODAY from a vote-counting facility in Philadelphia.
 Joe Biden has taken the lead in Georgia and is closing the gap in Pennsylvania, while President Trump, who made baseless claims of fraud, is gaining ground in Arizona.
 Meet the Press moderator Chuck Todd and NBC News Capitol Hill correspondent Kasie Hunt join TODAY to analyze the latest results.
 They recommend a charging station for all of your devices, a back and neck massager and cocktail gift set.
 That’s when superstar Ciara and her husband, Seattle Seahawks player Russell Wilson, stepped in to help get their home back in order.
 Watch as they join Hoda and Jenna to discuss.
 TODAY senior international correspondent Keir Simmons reports for TODAY.
 “The process is working, it’s transparent,” and you can be sure that your vote counts, Harry Smith tells TODAY.
 Michael Curry, presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church, joins TODAY to remind us that the Great Seal of the United States bears the motto “E pluribus unum”: “From many, one.” “We all came here on different ships, but we’re all in the same boat now,” he says.
 NBC’s Sam Brock reports for TODAY from Miami.
 NBC national correspondent Miguel Almaguer reports for TODAY.
 NBC’s Morgan Radford reports for TODAY from Charlotte.
 NBC’s Garrett Haake reports for TODAY from Detroit.
 She says she doesn’t understand the motives of Trump-supporting protesters outside the Maricopa County recorder’s office: “Of course we’re going to count all the votes.” She also says there is no validity to a “conspiracy theory” about vote-marking pens in Arizona.
 Rich Lowry, editor of the conservative National Review, says “litigation is unlikely to sway things.” Former Democratic Sen. Claire McCaskill says that Pennsylvania now “may be the quickest way to 270” electoral votes for Biden.
 NBC’s Tom Costello reports for TODAY.
 But the margin is slim, and the Trump campaign immediately requested a recount.
 NBC’s Gabe Gutierrez reports for TODAY from Madison.
 Vote margins in the state are razor-thin.
 NBC’s Blayne Alexander reports for TODAY from Atlanta.
 President Trump’s lead there is dwindling.
 NBC’s Stephanie Gosk reports for TODAY from Philadelphia.
 Todd points to five states he says are still on a “knife’s edge” in vote counts: Nevada, Arizona, Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Georgia.
 “Georgia is one state I am really keeping my eye on,” Hunt says.
 One reason for the delay: This is the first year the state has allowed mail-in ballots.
 NBC’s Jacob Soboroff reports for TODAY from Las Vegas.
 NBC’s Gadi Schwartz reports for TODAY from Phoenix.
 “We have to stop treating our opponents as enemies,” he said.
 NBC’s Kristen Welker reports for TODAY from Biden campaign headquarters in Wilmington, Delaware.
 President Trump’s campaign has filed a flurry of lawsuits to pause or challenge vote counts.
 NBC’s Peter Alexander reports for TODAY from the White House.
 He predicts that those votes will not change the trends currently in evidence, which show President Trump in the lead.
 “There is no basis, standing here today, for anybody to be in court,” Bash says.
 He and Chuck Todd also discuss Todd’s five-part podcast series on the turmoil of the 2000 election between former President George W. Bush and Al Gore.
 She says they are now focused on “triple checking the results.
 A federal hearing is set to get to address the issue.
 She urges patience and promises that every vote will be counted.
 If Biden hangs onto his current lead, it could be suburban voters who make the difference NBC’s Vaughn Hillyard reports for TODAY from Scottsdale.
 The Senate race in Michigan between Republican John James and Democrat Gary Peters is also tightening.
 Meet the Press moderator Chuck Todd analyzes those results and others on TODAY, predicting several recounts.
 He also says that the heavy voting turnout is a sign that “our democracy is flourishing.
 TODAY senior international correspondent Keir Simmons reports for TODAY from London.
 TODAY’s Craig Melvin reports.
 NBC News has confirmed that American security experts went on the offensive against Russian and Iranian targets in advance of voting.
 There is also calm in American cities.
 NBC’s Tom Costello reports for TODAY.
 He calls for calm and patience, saying, “Democracies depend on empathy.
 But the president prevailed with much of the credit going to Miami-Dade County’s large Latino community.
 NBC’s Kerry Sanders reports for TODAY from St.
 Petersburg.
 McInturff says not to blame pollsters for the surprisingly close race: “Blame the Founding Fathers” who created the Electoral College.
 Horwitt agrees that it’s “a humbling experience for all of us” and points to the 2018 election, when outcomes changed as votes were counted.
 He says “Pennsylvania is new to the vote-by-mail game” and says volunteers are working as quickly as they can.
 She also questions the future of the Democratic party, saying “our politics are not reaching the discontent” of half the American people.
 Former Sen. Claire McCaskill says the race still comes down to Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.
 ","tease":"Could the Supreme Court decide the election?
 ","social":"Could the Supreme Court decide the election?
 NBC justice correspondent Pete Williams tells TODAY that an appealed lawsuit in Pennsylvania would be likeliest to end up before the Supreme Court.
 NBC News analyst Jeremy Bash, a veteran of the Florida recount battle in 2000, calls Trump’s threat “outrageous” and calls for calm.
 For example, there are many votes still to be counted in Pennsylvania; there were some pauses in counts overnight in Georgia; ballots in Arizona will be counted until Nov. 10, and there will be no final tabulation until Thursday in Nevada, officials there said.
 NBC’s Gadi Schwartz reports for TODAY from Phoenix.
 NBC’s Gabe Gutierrez reports for TODAY from Milwaukee.
 Gov.
 Tom Wolf called for patience.
 NBC’s Stephanie Gosk reports for TODAY from Philadelphia.
 Todd looks at still-tight races in Wisconsin and Michigan and says there are still millions of votes to be counted in Pennsylvania.
 But President Trump falsely and prematurely claimed victory, decrying “a fraud on the American people.” He threatened a fight in the Supreme Court.
 NBC’s Peter Alexander reports for TODAY from the White House.
 Former Sen. Claire McCaskill says “the polling was clearly off, badly” because Democrats did much worse than expected.
 ","tease":"What will happen in crucial swing states like Wisconsin and Pennsylvania?
 ","social":"What will happen in crucial swing states like Wisconsin and Pennsylvania?
 In Wisconsin, the absentee count could be pivotal.
 NBC’s Gabe Gutierrez reports for TODAY from Milwaukee.
 The American people decide.\" Biden's team also says they are prepared for any legal challenges.
 NBC's Kristen Welker reports for TODAY from Wilmington, Delaware.
 He is also vowing to mount a legal challenge.
 NBC's Peter Alexander reports for TODAY from the White House.
 Please check your URL or return to","default":"We appreciate the gravity of this situation.
 Please check your URL or return to","globalcitizen":"Something doesn’t look right.
 Please check your URL or return to","knowyourvalue":"Juggling a few things right now!
 Please check your URL or return to","leftfield":"That shot just doesn’t look right.
 Please check your URL or return to","think":"Looks like you got twisted and turned around.
 Please check your URL or return to","today":"We’re having a ’ruff’ time finding this page.
 ":"How can we improve this page?
 ","Images":"Images","Interests":"Interests","Invalid email":"Invalid email","Jan.":"Jan.","July":"July","June":"June","Just now":"Just now","Key Updates":"Key Updates","LIVE COVERAGE":"LIVE COVERAGE","LIVE NOW":"LIVE NOW","Latest":"Latest","Latest Video":"Latest Video","Less":"Less","Live":"Live","Live Blog":"Live Blog","Load More Posts":"Load More Posts","Loading":"Loading","Loading ...":"Loading ...","Local news around you":"Local news around you","MORE":"MORE","March":"March","May":"May","More":"More","NEW":"NEW","Next":"Next","No":"No","Non Broadcast Live Video":"Non Broadcast Live Video","Nope":"Nope","Nov.":"Nov.","Now Playing":"Now Playing","Oct.":"Oct.","Off":"Off","On the show":"On the show","Opinion":"Opinion","Options":"Options","PAID CONTENT":"PAID CONTENT","PHOTOS":"PHOTOS","POST":"POST","POSTS":"POSTS","Paid Content":"Paid Content","Pinned":"Pinned","Play All":"Play All","Prev":"Prev","Price":"Price","Privacy Policy":"Privacy Policy","READ LESS":"READ LESS","READ MORE":"READ MORE","Rate your overall experience":"Rate your overall experience","Read":"Read","Recommended":"Recommended","Result":"Result","SEE":"SEE","SEE ALL":"SEE ALL","SEE NEW":"SEE NEW","SHOP":"SHOP","SHOPPING CONTENT BY STACKCOMMERCE":"SHOPPING CONTENT BY STACKCOMMERCE","SPONSORED":"SPONSORED","SUBSCRIBE":"SUBSCRIBE","Search":"Search","See All":"See All","See All From The Show":"See All From The Show","See local affiliates":"See local affiliates","See story":"See story","Sept.":"Sept.","Share this":"Share this","Sign Up":"Sign Up","Sign Up For Updates":"Sign Up For Updates","Slideshow":"Slideshow","Source":"Source","Spanish":"Spanish","Sponsored By":"Sponsored By","Submit":"Submit","Tap to Unmute":"Tap to Unmute","Terms of Service":"Terms of Service","The page design helps me find other stories I’m interested in":"The page design helps me find other stories I’m interested in","The page design helps me find other videos I’m interested in":"The page design helps me find other videos I’m interested in","The page design helps me find the content I’m interested in":"The page design helps me find the content I’m interested in","The page design helps me understand the news":"The page design helps me understand the news","The page design makes the article easy to read":"The page design makes the article easy to read","The page design makes the video easy to watch":"The page design makes the video easy to watch","This content was paid for by an advertiser and created by the NBC News Brand Studio.
 The NBC News editorial organization was not involved in its creation or production.
 This content represents the views and opinions of the advertiser, who is responsible for all of the material contained therein.
 Links are not endorsements by NBC News.
 ":"This content was paid for by an advertiser and created by the NBC News Brand Studio.
 The NBC News editorial organization was not involved in its creation or production.
 This content represents the views and opinions of the advertiser, who is responsible for all of the material contained therein.
 Links are not endorsements by NBC News.
 ","This site is protected by recaptcha":"This site is protected by recaptcha","Top Moments":"Top Moments","Top Stories":"Top Stories","Trending":"Trending","Trending Gift Guides":"Trending Gift Guides","UP NEXT":"UP NEXT","Updated":"Updated","VIEW":"VIEW","Videos":"Videos","View the story on Storify":"View the story on Storify","View this graphic on":"View this graphic on","Want a response?
 ":"Want a response?
 ","Watch":"Watch","Watch More":"Watch More","We apologize, this video has expired.
 ":"We apologize, this video has expired.
 ","We apologize, we were unable to find your local news.
 Please try another location.
 ":"We apologize, we were unable to find your local news.
 Please try another location.
 ","What\u0026apos;s this?
 ":"What\u0026apos;s this?
 ","What's this?
 ":"What's this?
 ","Who":"Who","Yea":"Yea","Yes":"Yes","You have been successfully added to our newsletter":"You have been successfully added to our newsletter","Your Email Address":"Your Email Address","Your Video Begins in":"Your Video Begins in","Zip code here":"Zip code here","copied!
