202.11: Continuing Temporary Suspension and Modification of Laws Relating to the Disaster Emergency Executive Order    TOP        No.
 202.11: Continuing Temporary Suspension and...        Share                           EO_202_11.pdf     Download                  WYSIWYGNo.
 IN ADDITION, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 29-a of Article 2-B of the ExecutiveLaw to issue any directive during a disaster emergency necessary to cope with the disaster, I hereby issuethe following directives for the period from the date of this Executive Order through April 26, 2020: The directive contained in Executive Order 202.4 related to the closure of schools statewide shall hereafter be modified to provide that all schools shall remain closed until April 15, 2020, at which time the continued closure shall be re-evaluated.
 No school shall be subject to a diminution in school aid due to failure to meet the 180 day in session requirement as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak, provided their closure does not extend beyond the term set forth herein.
 School districts must continue plans for alternative instructional options, distribution and availability of meals, and child care, with an emphasis on serving children of essential workers, and continue to first use any vacation or snow days remaining.
 The directive contained in Executive Order 202.10 related to restrictions on dispensing hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine for prophylactic purposes is amended as follows: No pharmacist shall dispense hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine except when written: as prescribed for an FDA-approved indication; for an indication supported by one or more citations included or approved for inclusion in the compendia specified in 42 U.S.C.
 1396r–8(g)(1)(B)(i); for patients in inpatient settings and acute settings; for residents in a subacute part of a skilled nursing facility; or as part of an study approved by an Institutional Review Board.
 Any person authorized to prescribe such medications shall denote on the prescription the condition for which the prescription has been issued.
 During the period when an Executive Order limiting operation of a type of facility or limiting the number of persons who may occupy any space is in effect, any operation of such a facility or occupancy of any such space by more than the number of persons allowed by said Executive Order shall be deemed to be a violation of law and in particular, but not by way of limitation, shall be deemed to be a violation of the Uniform Code or other local building code in effect in the jurisdiction in which the facility or space is located.
 In the event of any such violation, any state, county, or local police officer authorized to enforce laws within the jurisdiction in which the space or facility is located is authorized to remove persons from such space or facility.
 In addition, in the event of such violation, any state, county, or local code enforcement official or fire marshal authorized to enforce the Uniform Code or other local building code within the jurisdiction in which the facility or space is located is authorized to issue an appearance ticket, a Notice of Violation, an Order to Remedy such violation, which shall require immediate compliance, and/or a Do Not Occupy Order to any owner, operator, or occupant of any such facility or space.
 Nothing in this provision shall limit the authority of any governmental unit or agency to take such other and/or additional enforcement actions to the extent necessary to ensure compliance with such occupancy-related directives or facility operation-related directives.
 Any guidance issued by the New York State Department of Health related to prevention and infection control of COVID-19 shall be effective immediately and shall supersede any prior conflicting guidance issued by the New York State Department of Health and any guidance issued by any local board of health, any local department of health, or any other political subdivision of the State related to the same subject.
 G I V E N   under my hand and the Privy Seal of the State in the City of Albany this twenty-seventh day of March in the year two thousand twenty.
 BY THE GOVERNOR          Secretary to the Governor0          Next Section Continue  Translations       Translations        Translations    Bengali Translationবাংলা অনুবাদDownloadChinese Translation中文翻譯DownloadHaitian-Creole TranslationTradiksyon kreyòl ayisyenDownloadKorean Translation한국어 번역DownloadRussian TranslationПеревод на русский языкDownloadSpanish TranslationTraducción al españolDownload                          Governor Andrew M. Cuomo  About Accessibility Contact Disclaimer Executive Orders Freedom of Information Law (FOIL) Judicial Screening Language Access Legislation Pressroom Privacy Policy Schedule Site Map     CONNECT WITH US  Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Instagram RSS feed                       You are leaving the official State of New York website.
 The State of New York does not imply approval of the listed destinations, warrant the accuracy of any information set out in those destinations, or endorse any opinions expressed therein.
 External web sites operate at the direction of their respective owners who should be contacted directly with questions regarding the content of these sites.
 Visit Site    /* */
