By Roy Rowan REPORTER ASSOCIATE Julia Lieblich          June 6, 1988           (FORTUNE Magazine) – A CONCRETE-POURING job like Manhattan's new $486 million Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, completed two years ago, should have drawn a flock of bids.
 Not     in New York City.
 Only two came in for the mammoth structure designed by I. M. Pei.
 The contract was awarded to S&amp;A Concrete Co., a concern partly owned by Anthony Salerno, first     among the nation's organized crime bosses, who is now serving a 100-year prison sentence for being part of the Mafia's ruling Commission.
 S&amp;A thought the job could be done for a     shade over $30 million.
 The only other bid was a suspiciously high $41 million.
 A Connecticut contractor spent three months working up a bid that would have been under S&amp;A's, then     dropped out at the last minute after a visit and a couple of phone calls from a Salerno lackey.
 Says Thomas Galvin, former chief executive of the convention center and now president     of Xerox Realty Corp.: ''It was an open secret that concrete was Mafia-controlled.''
 During the past decade, 17 federal, state, and city investigative agencies have been probing New     York's crime-ridden construction industry.
 This scrutiny has resulted in scores of indictments and convictions.
 Just two weeks ago, Salerno and Vincent DiNapoli, another partner in     S&amp;A Concrete, were convicted of racketeering in federal district court in Manhattan, along with three other mobsters and four of their business associates.
 After a 13-month trial     prosecuted by Assistant U.S.
 Attorneys Alan M. Cohen and Mark Hellerer, they were found guilty of rigging bids for building the concrete superstructures of 16 major projects in     Manhattan, among them the Javits Center.
 The jury stripped Salerno and DiNapoli of their interests in S&amp;A.
 Crime is so deep rooted that New York Governor Mario Cuomo this year     ordered the formation of a special Construction Industry Strike Force, consisting of about 100 prosecutors, investigators, accountants, and analysts.
 It is the first law enforcement     group in the country to concentrate exclusively on the building industry.
 Eventually Cuomo hopes to add a second agency to monitor and regulate the business.
 Says the governor: ''We     must begin the enormous task of cleaning up a vital industry that has failed utterly to rid itself of corruption.''
 The way the system works illustrates how criminal elements can take     advantage of bureaucratic complexity, politics, and leave-well-enough-alon e businessmen to penetrate an industry vital to a great city's well-being.
 Manhattan developer William     Zeckendorf Jr. describes how the costs flow from .
 mobster to builder to buyer to renter.
 ''There's too much money floating around,'' he says.
 ''So if you overpay by $5 or $10 a     square foot, it gets passed on to the customer anyway.''
 Construction costs in Manhattan may have been inflated over the years by as much as 20% because of the mob, according to a     contractor who testified behind a screen at hearings held by the President's Organized Crime Commission in Washington.
 Whatever the surcharge, it affects the cost of doing business     for any company in New York City.
 Ready-mix, the wet concrete that is delivered to building sites in lumbering 50-ton trucks with rotating drums, is the mob's main extortion weapon in     Manhattan.
 But the Mafia has also infiltrated other building trades, including blasting, carpentry, and drywall.
 Several corrupt Teamster locals have pitched in by slowing or blocking     delivery of building materials on command.
 While a few of the best-known Mafia bosses like Salerno are now in jail and some of their businesses dormant, law enforcement officials fear     that mob penetration of New York City's $5-billion-a-year construction industry will worsen.
 A new state report titled Corruption and Racketeering in the New York City Construction     Industry warns, ''Participants in the industry must be awakened from their complacency.''
 Manhattan's megabuilders are not greeting that prospect with the enthusiasm you might expect.
 If anything, the industry seems alarmed that the governor just might succeed and end up hurting business.
 ''If people have a problem, they shouldn't build here,'' says Lewis Rudin,     61, chairman of Rudin Management Co. ''Arrest us if we're corrupt.
 If there's something wrong with what I'm doing, put me in jail.''
 Rudin is also a member of the Citizens Crime     Commission in New York City, a private watchdog group that has executives from six FORTUNE 500 companies on its board.
 He fears that the governor's plan will do to the construction     industry what the gang-busting Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor did on the docks.
 ''Now,'' he says, ''we've got a clean shipping industry with no business.''
 ONE OF THE FEW     builders to endorse the need for a cleanup is Samuel LeFrak, who at 70 still rolls up his shirt-sleeves combatively and calls himself ''the Lone Ranger of my industry.''
 The voluble     chairman of the Lefrak Organization (the company uses a lower-case f) argues that featherbedding, bid rigging, and other corrupt labor practices raise the cost of building in New York     astronomically, and he isn't afraid to say so.
 ''I'm not worried about any of these mob guys,'' he says.
 ''What are they going to do, put a bullet in me?
 Look, I'm a survivor.
 I'm     here for the duration.''
 Prompting Cuomo's call to clean up the construction industry is the scathing 130-page Corruption and Racketeering report, prepared by Ronald Goldstock,     director of the New York State Organized Crime Task Force.
 It was to have been made public last July, but was withheld by the governor until there was a verdict at the construction     racketeering trial just ended.
 The language Goldstock uses for his accusations is harsh.
 The document's most disturbing charge is that the construction industry is alarmingly     comfortable with the Mafia.
 The report bluntly concludes that many developers, builders, and contractors ''believe that the monetary costs of corruption are more than offset by the     money saved or earned through corruption.''
 As a result, the report contends, the industry has ''become dependent upon'' the crime brotherhood.
 Mafia muscle, it states, assures     ''contractors that they will only have to pay off once, that the amount will be reasonable, and that the services paid for will be delivered.''
 Services include the strong- arm     tactics needed to keep building materials flowing to job sites and to avoid labor disruptions.
 The developers' trade association responds to these charges with indignation.
 ''We     resent being pictured as the enemy,'' says Joseph Newman, 63, chairman of the New York Building Congress and president of Tishman Research Corp. ''We're the victims.''
 Newman's boss,     John L. Tishman, 62, chairman of the 90-year-old Tishman Realty &amp; Construction Co., which has built some 75 Manhattan skyscrapers, also denies knowledge of contractor complicity     but concedes that ''there are some abuses in labor.''
 Does Tishman mean the Teamsters, notorious for mob connections?
 Tishman, who is a student of psychic phenomena, glares at his     questioner and snaps, ''Look, you said Teamsters.
 I didn't.
 I may believe in the afterlife, but I want to stay here awhile.''
 The Goldstock report reveals that Harry Gross, a Teamster     racketeer, and Philip Doran, a Teamster business agent convicted of attempted grand larceny and bribe-taking, were on Tishman's payroll up to 1985.
 The company says the two men were     assigned to their jobs by the union.
 Tishman believes, as do others in his business, that the biggest impediment to building in New York is not corruption but the exasperating     logistics.
 He has a point, but the problems also encourage the proliferation of fixers.
 Narrow city streets do not provide much storage space for building materials, so steel beams,     concrete, brick, and glass must be trucked to the job on a precise schedule geared to when they will be used.
 Construction sites in New York are enclosed by wooden fences, and     Teamster foremen are posted at the gates to check the union membership of all drivers delivering materials.
 These foremen can withhold labor and disrupt deliveries.
 That power gives     mob-run unions a lot of leverage over an industry that employs 100,000 workers in New York City alone.
 EIGHT YEARS AGO, during the ground-breaking ceremony for the $250 million     Gateway Plaza apartment complex at the southern tip of Manhattan, the builder, Sam LeFrak, told John Cody, then president of Teamster Local 282, that he was planning to use     labor-saving precast concrete instead of ready-mix.
 Cody, who has since done a little time for labor racketeering and lost his Teamster post, made it clear that his boys who drove the     ready-mix trucks wouldn't like LeFrak's idea.
 What he didn't mention was that Paul ''Big Paul'' Castellano, godfather of the Gambino crime family until he was gunned down on a midtown     sidewalk in 1985, wouldn't like it either.
 Cody, the Goldstock report revealed, was a captive of the Gambinos and was paying Castellano $200,000 a year as his share of the labor     shakedowns.
 Today LeFrak says that the precast suppliers reached some sort of compromise with Cody.
 Tom Galvin, who spent six years as chief operating officer of the Battery Park City     Authority, the agency that oversaw Gateway Plaza, before becoming CEO of the Javits Center, disputes that: ''LeFrak didn't get around John Cody.
 Nobody did.''
 And the New York Times     reported that the Teamster boss's strong-arm tactics added $10 million to Gateway Plaza's costs.
 By deploying captive unions such as Teamster Local 282 as their enforcement arm, the     Mafia chiefs have intimidated the developers and extracted immense plunder from them.
 Much of the booty comes from contractors and subcontractors who are hired by developers to do the     work and who pass along the costs to the developers.
 Irving Fischer, president of HRH Construction Corp., prime contractor for the Javits Center, was one of the few builders who dared     testify at Salerno and DiNapoli's trial.
 He described how ''a bunch of labor goons once stormed into our office and held the switchboard operator at knife point.''
 Fischer says they     demanded no-show jobs when he was building Trump Tower.
 But it is not the fear of violence that has kept the building industry from rooting out corruption.
 As Governor Cuomo told     FORTUNE, ''It's the fear of upset, the fear of delay, the fear of impediment to construction, and then it's the ease with which the builders can put those added costs into the price     of the job.
 If the industry had been eager to cleanse itself, builders would be walking into the D.A.
 's office and saying, 'Hey, this guy's putting the arm on us.'
 ''           NEW YORK CITY'S maze of statutes and byzantine building codes makes the construction industry highly susceptible to Mafia infiltration.
 Tortuous permit requirements for demolition,     excavation, hoisting, and other on-site operations, as well as the endless approvals needed from myriad municipal departments such as the Department of Buildings, City Planning     Commission, Department of Environmental Protection, Department of Transportation, Fire Department, and Landmark Preservation Commission, plague the whole construction process with     seemingly infinite bureaucratic obstacles.
 A racketeer with control over suppliers, union officials, and city inspectors can vastly improve the speed and efficiency with which     buildings rise in Manhattan.
 Last November, New York Mayor Edward Koch summoned two dozen developers to a closed meeting at City Hall.
 He challenged them to hang tough and take a     strike if necessary to curb the illegal labor practices.
 Later Koch complained that the group seemed defensive and ''conveyed the impression that there was no corruption.
 I must say,     I saw a lot of slender reeds in that room.''
 Lewis Rudin, one of the developers pressent, says, ''The mayor accused us of pussyfooting around about corruption.
 But to me, the need to     get so many city approvals causes more of an increase in construction costs than all this nonsense about mob collusion.''
 Rudin describes how the Department of Buildings ordered a     four-day halt to the steel work on a 35-story office tower that he is cantilevering over the Broadway Theater, where Les Miserables is playing.
 ''It was an improper decision,'' Rudin     says.
 ''But it cost me hundreds of thousands of dollars in lost time, and there was no gangster putting a gun to my head.''
 The buildings commissioner says the stoppage was for safety     reasons.
 Cuomo thinks Rudin may have a point.
 ''Sometimes I think the building codes were written to allow for chicanery,'' says the governor.
 He is now asking Thomas Reppetto,     president of the Citizens Crime Commission, to gather all the industry's recommendations for streamlining work practices and abolishing outmoded regulations that invite extortion.
 For     decades mobsters have proved skillful at seizing labor organizations by terror to loot their treasuries and pension funds.
 In the last dozen years or so, Mafia leaders like the     bulging, 300-pound DiNapoli have demonstrated considerable flair for organizing corrupt union locals to shake down the developers.
 DiNapoli achieved underworld status as the protege     of Salerno, 77, the head of the Genovese crime family.
 But the shabby storefront social clubs in East Harlem where ''Fat Tony'' and the other Mafia chiefs conducted their business     were not to Vinnie's taste.
 He maintained a penthouse on Manhattan's East Side, from which to dabble in the usual loan sharking and gambling while devoting most of his energies to     racketeering in the construction industry.
 Early on DiNapoli, 51, revealed a remarkable ability to roll with the reprisals of law enforcement.
 Convicted in a sports bribery case in     1978, he was sentenced to three years in federal prison.
 Serving time was not onerous.
 Locked up only on weekends, he was free to go about his business on working days, and after just     three months of that convenient incarceration, Vinnie was released on probation.
 THE JUSTICE Department's Brooklyn-based Organized Crime Strike Force says that DiNapoli continued to     dominate the city's drywall business while he was on probation.
 Drywall construction uses Sheetrock instead of plaster for interior walls and ceilings.
 DiNapoli reportedly owned two     drywall companies and held sway over eight others in collusion with other gangsters, setting the price of a good part of this work in Manhattan.
 His contribution to the science of     criminal control was to guarantee builders against delays.
 Astride both labor and management, DiNapoli exacted $1,000-a-week payments from drywall contractors he didn't own in return     for labor peace.
 After arranging for a union slowdown, he would offer the hapless contractor an unconditional warranty against further interruptions -- but for a price.
