He represents portions of DeKalb, Fulton, and Gwinnett counties.
 Sen. Millar serves as chair to the Retirement committee, and secretary to the Health and Human Services committee.
 He is the also a member of the Rules, Education and Youth, and Marta Oversight Committees.
 Sen. Millar brings a wealth of government experience to his Senate position.
 He served his first terms in the State legislature in 1998-2010 with the House of Representatives.
 He was recognized as Policymaker of the Year in 2008 by the Georgia Association for Career and Technical Education.
 He was also awarded the 2010 Advocacy Award by All About Developmental Disabilities.
 He was first elected to the State Senate in 2010.
 He holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics and works as an insurance broker with Wells Fargo Insurance Services.
 Sen. Millar is a native of New London, Connecticut.
 He serves as an ex-officio member of the Dunwoody Homeowners Board of Directors.
 He and his wife, Mary, have three children and seven grandchildren.
 They are active members of the Dunwoody United Methodist Church.Favourite QuotesNo favourite quotes to showFavouritesBooksI AM ALEXOtherSplinter, Ross Cavitt - Roving Ex-Reporter, Simone Chérie, Mr. Shawn James, Shweta Dhawan Productions, Terry Hobbs Sr, Congressman Buddy Carter, First Lady Sandra Deal, Southern States Energy Board, St. Vincent de Paul Georgia, DSB - Dunwoody Senior Baseball, Organization by James, Richmond County School System, Andrea Johnson for House, Brian Hudson, Charlice Byrd, Garry for GA Senate District 40, Jeff Mullis, Jeff Jones Page, Matthew Gambill for House, Camden County Georgia News and Life Magazine, Re-elect Mary Kay Murphy, Mary Margaret Oliver for House District 82, Jason Shaw, State Rep. Pedro "Pete" Marin, Donna Pittman, State Representative Ginny Ehrhart, Stacey for Dunwoody, Renee Unterman, Derek Norton - Mayor, City of Smyrna, Committee to Elect Lorri Christopher, Peachtree Corners Post 5, Senator Ed Harbison, 15th District, Sharon Cooper, Georgia Council on Substance Abuse, Beth Moore for GA House 95, U.S. Embassy Luxembourg, Meredith Hilton Law, Governor Brian Kemp, Gerald Greene for State Representative, Katie Dempsey for State Representative, DCA Management Consulting Services, Tamara Shealey, Kindred Women II, Brian Benninghoff Realtor, Gary Linda Ledford, Thomas Hogan Mortgage Banker, Thomas Hogan, Chamblee City Council, Third District - 2008-2019, David Clark, Jan Jones, Buzz Brockway For Georgia, Nasermd, State Rep. Ed Setzler, Heath Clark, Chuck Eaton, Congressman Jody Hice, Rep. Howard Mosby, Friends of the Dunwoody Library, DUMC Youth, Liz Erikson Photography, Dennis Caniglia, Meagan Hanson, ACCG Georgia Counties, Scott Hilton for Georgia, Mayor Eric Clarkson - Chamblee, GA, P.K.
 You can review your cookie controls at any time.
 You have a number of choices using the tools described below.
 Some cookies are required in order to use Facebook.
 One of the ways Audience Network shows relevant ads is by using your ad preferences to determine which ads you may be interested in seeing.
 This helps us do things such as give you a more personalised experience on Facebook.
 As of 5 October 2020, you may find additional information about the controls offered by popular browsers at the links below.
 Certain parts of Facebook Products may not work properly if you have disabled browser cookies.
