212-879-0800        COVID-19 Practice Update We are closely monitoring the COVID-19 situation and following the latest recommendations provided by our local and state departments of health.
 Dr. Harry Fisch  Locations Clinical &amp; Research Papers Blog Dr. Fisch Videos   Vasectomy Reversal  Success Rates Is a Vasectomy Reversal Right for Me?
 Vasectomy Reversal Surgery After Surgery Conception After Vasectomy Reversal Vasectomy Reversal Cost FAQ The Patients Guide to Vasectomy Reversal   Varicocele  Varicocele Diagnosis Varicocele Treatment &amp; Surgery Varicocele Case Studies The Patient’s Guide to Varicocele Varicocelectomy FAQ   Vasectomy  No-Needle, No-Scalpel Vasectomy Is a Vasectomy Right for Me?
 How Effective Is a Vasectomy?
 Can a Vasectomy Be Reversed?
 Vasectomy Procedure – What to Expect?
 Vasectomy Costs and FAQS Current Management of Vasectomy The Patient’s Guide to Vasectomy   Mens Health  Male Infertility  The Male Biological Clock Male Fertility Evaluation Sperm Disorders Varicocele Azoospermia Erection and Ejaculation Disorders   Testosterone and Replacement  Low Testosterone Testosterone Facts Testosterone Replacement Therapy An Alternative Solution for Low-T OTC Products for Low Testosterone   Erectile Dysfunction Premature Ejaculation Prostate Health Testicular Pain   Contact  Request a Consultation      212-879-0800                  Home » Male Infertility » The Male Biological Clock                   The Male Biological Clock      A man’s chronological age is actually a poor indicator of the status of his sexual biological clock.
 Some 80-year-old men have sexual and reproductive parameters similar to men 50 years their junior.
 And some 30-year-olds, though they appear fit and healthy, have sexual biological clocks that have been ticking along furiously and have reached a stage more typically seen in men in their 70s.
 Four Key Physical Factors So how can a man tell where his biological clock stands?
 Fortunately, it’s relatively simple: A man’s biological clock relates to the health status of four key physical factors:  Semen Sperm Testosterone Erections  Semen Semen is the milky-colored, somewhat gel-like liquid that spurts out of the penis during orgasm.
 It is produced by the walnut-sized prostate gland that sits just below the bladder, and by the seminal vesicles, two pinky-sized glands that feed into the prostate.
 More Information Semen is a complex substance that contains nutrients to keep sperm alive after ejaculation.
 Semen is designed to protect sperm from the chemical environment of the vagina and special enzymes to make it liquefy about 15 minutes after ejaculation.
 The average volume of semen expelled by a healthy man in one ejaculation is about a teaspoon.
 Semen should spurt or shoot out of the penis, not dribble.
 Less Information
