Skip to main content            COVID-19 is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation.
 Get the latest information from CDC (coronavirus.gov) | NIH Resources | NIDA Resources    National Institutes of Health   Order Publications En español                        Search Component              Home     Drug Topics    Drug Topics    Alcohol     Club Drugs     Cocaine     Fentanyl     Hallucinogens     Heroin     Inhalants     Kratom     Marijuana     MDMA (Ecstasy/Molly)     Methamphetamine     Opioids     Over-the-Counter Medicines     Prescription Medicines     Steroids (Anabolic)     Synthetic Cannabinoids (K2/Spice)     Synthetic Cathinones (Bath Salts)     Tobacco/Nicotine and Vaping      More Drug Topics      Quick Links COVID-19 Opioid Crisis Commonly Used Drugs Chart Emerging Trends Fentanyl NIDA Publications        Research &amp; Training    Research &amp; Training    NIDA Research Programs &amp; Activities     Clinical Research     NIH Policies &amp; Guidance     Research Data, Measures, &amp; Resources     Research Training &amp; Career Development     Resources for Grants &amp; Contracts         Quick Links HEAL Initiative NIDA Drug Supply Program Clinical Trials Stewardship Fellowships &amp; Grants NIDA Notice of Special Interest (NOSI)        Clinical Resources    NIDAMED: Clinical Resources    For Your Discipline     Health Professions Education     Marijuana and Other Drugs     Opioid Crisis and Pain Management     Screening Tools &amp; Prevention     Treatment         Quick Links COVID-19 Resources        Grants &amp; Funding    Grants &amp; Funding    Contracts and Small Businesses     NIDA Funding Opportunities     Trans-NIH Funding Opportunities         Quick Links Grants Address OUD in Criminal Justice Settings Peer Review Grant Application Forms Grants &amp; Contract Application Process NIDA Notice of Special Interest (NOSI)        News &amp; Events    News    News Releases     Nora's Blog     NIDA Notes     Research Highlights     Public Education Projects     NIDA in the News     Subject Area Experts         Quick Links NIDA TV NIDA Media Guide Contact the Press Office Meetings &amp; Events        About NIDA    About NIDA    Advisory Boards and Review Groups     Director's Page     Legislative Activities     Organization     Working at NIDA         Quick Links NIDA Strategic Plan FY 2021 Budget Information Clinical Trials Network Contact Us             Breadcrumb   Home   Drug Topics        Emerging Trends                    Emerging Trends                  Drug use and its resulting health effects can change as new trends and drug formulations emerge and become more widely used.
 NIDA’s National Drug Early Warning System (NDEWS) reports on emerging trends and patterns in many metropolitan areas and states.
 A selection of additional emerging trends with potential broad implications are captured below.
 NDEWS Reports                        Emerging Trend  COVID-19 is an Emerging, Rapidly Evolving Situation     March 18, 2020  |     Links to the latest resources on COVID-19            Emerging Trend  CDC and FDA Issue Updates on Vaping-Related Health Issues     September 12, 2019  |     The CDC and FDA have posted important information for consumers related to recent deaths and illnesses that could be linked to vaping.
 Emerging Trend  U.S.
 Surgeon General Warning on Marijuana Use in Adolescence and During Pregnancy     August 30, 2019  |     The U.S.
 Surgeon General has issued a warning about the potential health risks of marijuana use in adolescence and during pregnancy.
 Emerging Trend  FDA Special Announcement: Reports of Seizures After Using Nicotine Vaping Devices     April 4, 2019  |     The FDA has become aware that some people who use e-cigarettes have experienced seizures, with most reports involving youth or young adult users.
 For older content, visit the Archived Emerging Trends.
 Receive Emerging Trends and Alerts articles in your email!
 This external link provides additional information that is consistent with the intended purpose of federal site.
 The National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) or the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal site.
 Linking to a non-federal site does not constitute an endorsement by NIDA, HHS, or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the site.
 You will be subject to the destination site\u2019s privacy policy when you follow the link.
