View the collection | Find AAP resources here.
 Racism and Its Effects on Pediatric Health The American Academy of Pediatrics recognizes the harm racism causes to infants, children, adolescents, and their families.
 View the collection.
 Article  Underimmunization in Ohio's Amish: Parental Fears Are a Greater Obstacle Than Access to Care Olivia K. Wenger, Mark D. McManus, John R. Bower and Diane L. Langkamp Pediatrics July 2011, 128 (1) 79-85; DOI: https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.2009-2599   Olivia K. Wenger Find this author on Google ScholarFind this author on PubMedSearch for this author on this siteMark D. McManus Find this author on Google ScholarFind this author on PubMedSearch for this author on this siteJohn R. Bower Find this author on Google ScholarFind this author on PubMedSearch for this author on this siteDiane L. Langkamp Find this author on Google ScholarFind this author on PubMedSearch for this author on this site             ArticleFigures &amp; DataInfo &amp; MetricsComments          Download PDF     Abstract OBJECTIVE: Holmes County, Ohio, one of the largest Amish communities in the world, has persistently low immunization rates.
 Studies of other Amish communities have revealed that parents do not immunize their children because of lack of access to immunizations.
 Our study explored reasons that Amish parents in the previously uninvestigated Holmes County population exempt themselves from immunizations.
 METHODS: In January 2007, questionnaires for assessing attitudes regarding immunizations were mailed to a random sampling of 1000 Amish parents in Holmes County.
 RESULTS: Thirty-seven percent of the parents responded.
 Among the 359 respondents, 68% stated that all of their children had received at least 1 immunization, and 17% reported that some of their children had received at least 1 immunization.
 Only 14% of the parents reported that none of their children had received immunizations.
 Eighty-six percent of the parents who completely exempted their children from vaccines stated that the main reason they do not vaccinate their children is concern over adverse effects.
 Many parents indicated that they allow their children to receive only some vaccines because of concern about the way certain vaccines are produced.
 CONCLUSIONS: The reasons that Amish parents resist immunizations mirror reasons that non-Amish parents resist immunizations.
 Even in America's closed religious communities, the major barrier to vaccination is concern over adverse effects of vaccinations.
 If 85% of Amish parents surveyed accept some immunizations, they are a dynamic group that may be influenced to accept preventative care.
 Underimmunization in the Amish population must be approached with emphasis on changing parental perceptions of vaccines in addition to ensuring access to vaccines.
 Amishimmunizationsimmunization safetyattitudesexemption WHAT'S KNOWN ON THIS SUBJECT:Underimmunized communities are reservoirs of preventable childhood diseases in the United States.
 Many Amish communities have low immunization rates.
 Previous research among the Amish has revealed that the major barrier to immunization is lack of access to health care.
 WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS:Among the Amish in Holmes County, Ohio, the major barrier to immunization is parental concerns over adverse effects of vaccines.
 Decision-making about vaccination among Amish parents is complex; many Amish parents accept some vaccines for their children but refuse others.
 Despite the efforts of pediatric providers nationwide to advocate for immunizations, some parents choose not to vaccinate their children.1,2 Children who live in closed communities with high vaccine-exemption rates are particularly vulnerable to vaccine-preventable diseases.3,4 The Amish, a separatist Christian sect, have had persistently low immunization rates.
 Multiple outbreaks of vaccine-preventable infections including pertussis, rubella, measles, and Haemophilus influenzae type b have been described in underimmunized Amish communities.5,–,9Although vaccination is not specifically prohibited by Amish religious doctrine, the reasons for the low immunization rates have not been clearly identified.
 Authors of a previous study cited limited access to health care as a barrier to immunization among the Amish.10 Among the Amish in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, investigators found that only 16% of children aged 6 months to 5 years were fully immunized.
 A survey of Amish families in Lancaster County found that 75% reported that they would immunize their children if vaccinations were offered locally.9 The generalizability of the Lancaster County findings to other Amish communities has not been determined.
 Holmes County, Ohio, is one of the largest settlements of Amish in the world, yet this population's attitudes regarding immunizations have not been researched.11 In 2006, 45% of the Holmes County population was reported to be fully immunized, compared with a statewide Ohio immunization rate of 80% and a national rate of 85% (based on children aged 19–35 months who received the 4:3:1:3:3 [≥4 doses of diphtheria, tetanus toxoid, and any acellular pertussis vaccine, ≥3 doses of poliovirus vaccine, ≥1 dose of measles, mumps, rubella vaccine, ≥3 doses of H influenzae type b vaccine and ≥3 doses of hepatitis B vaccine] series) (Sally Hofsetter, director, personal health services, Holmes County Department of Health, Millersburg, OH, personal communication, July 14, 2006).12 The Holmes County Department of Health (DoH) has increased the availability of vaccinations by holding immunization clinics near community gatherings such as livestock auctions and by offering to administer vaccines at parochial schools.
 Also, most physicians provide vaccines through government-supplemented programs at minimal cost.
 However, low immunizations rates persist, which suggests that the barriers to immunization among the Holmes County Amish differ from those described among the Amish in Lancaster County.MATERIALS AND METHODSSample and InstrumentThis study consisted of a mailed 25-question survey to Amish parents in Holmes County.
 Survey questions were designed with input from Amish community leaders, physicians who serve Amish families, the Holmes County DoH staff, and previous studies of parental attitudes toward immunization (Nancy E. Rosenstein, personal communication, July 14, 2006).13 The questions explored basic demographic information, family-specific immunization status, parental attitudes toward immunization, religious ideas regarding immunization, and exposure to potential adverse effects of immunizations.
 Most questions offered multiple-choice answers with an option to write in comments.
 A few questions were open-ended.
 The survey was reviewed by a small group of Amish parents to ensure clarity.
 The study was approved by the institutional review board at Akron Children's Hospital.
 The mailing addresses of Amish parents were obtained from the 2005 Ohio Amish Directory, which is a comprehensive directory of Amish families living in Holmes County and its vicinity in 2005.14 The directory lists the names and birth dates of children in each household.
 Although addresses were selected at random, only addresses of families with children born after 1980 were used.
 Such purposeful sampling from a random component of a specific population has been used in other exploratory studies of barriers to immunization.15 A list of 1000 families (5% of the population) was generated.
 The survey was sent with a cover letter and a self-addressed, stamped reply envelope.
 No incentive was offered for survey completion.
 All surveys were anonymous.Statistical AnalysisThe data were analyzed by performing cross-tabulations, and significant differences were established by χ2 statistics using SPSS 15.0.16 Some respondents did not select answers to all 25 questions.
 The end result of this exploration was to provide pertinent themes and specific quotes to illustrate the key findings.18,19RESULTSDemographicsOf 1000 surveys distributed, 360 completed surveys were returned and 33 were returned as undeliverable, which resulted in a response rate of 37%.
 One survey was completed by a Mennonite and, thus, was excluded from analysis.
 Demographic characteristics obtained from the respondents included gender (67% female), age (range: 24–69 years; mean: 39.1 years), religious affiliation (85% Old Order Amish, 12% New Order Amish, 3% other Amish church), and insurance coverage (95% uninsured).Immunization TrendsThe parents were asked to state whether all, some, or none of their children had received immunizations.
 They were not asked to clarify how many or which immunizations their children had received.
 Of the 359 respondents, 68% stated that all of their children had received immunizations, 17% stated that some of their children had been immunized, and 14% stated that none of their children had been immunized.A majority of the Amish in Holmes County classify themselves as Old Order (more traditional) or New Order (less traditional).20 All New Order Amish respondents stated that they had their children immunized.
 Of the 243 parents who responded that all of their children had received vaccinations, 40% immunized their animals.
 Of the 49 parents who replied that none of their children had received vaccinations, only 18% immunized their animals (P
