Skip to content    Mental Health &amp; Addiction Advocacy Coalition changing minds, changing lives   Menu Home About  Mission &amp; History State Board &amp; Steering Committees Meet the Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us   Local Work  Northeast Ohio Hub Southwest Ohio Hub   State-Level Work  State Budget Legislation   Members  Meet Our Members Join Us Membership Dues   Resources  Suicide in Ohio Behavioral Health Resources for Minority Populations By The Numbers Older Adults Video Training Series Media and Achievements   Donate          Oops!
 That page can’t be found.
 It looks like nothing was found at this location.
 Maybe try a search?
 Search for:            Search for:      Testimonials        "Being a member of the MHAC has been a great resource for our nonprofit that provides prevention education theatre.
 I have made connections to schools, treatment centers and government officials who are supportive of our mission.
 The meetings are a wealth of knowledge about state legislation as well as programs and practices of organizations.
 "-Karen Snyder, OH Regional Director, Improbable Players   "I have found the MHAC as a wonderful platform to advocate for mental health and recovery.
 I also love meeting with and discussing issues in our communities.
 Thank you for all that you do.”-Christine Rowles, Marketing and Business Development, Signature Health, Inc   “The MHAC provides a unique and collaborative advocacy platform, uniting traditional and nontraditional stakeholders resulting in great strides for behavioral health reform.”-Christina Kalnicki, Behavioral Health Initiative Lead-Criminal Justice-Ohio Medicaid, CareSource   “The MHAC is a tireless advocate for people with mental health and addiction issues.
 The coalition has strong working relationships with leaders in the State and a solid understanding of what is needed for client success.
 Most importantly they listen to an ever-changing and passionate community, to hear their concerns, prioritizing the top objectives to reduce stigma, so more people seek treatment.”-Jason Joyce, Senior Director of Clinical Services, Recovery Resources   “The MHAC has always been wonderful with informative communication as well as valuing member feedback.Our agency benefits from our membership with the MHAC through advocacy events, committee meetings and thorough email updates.”-Ann Robson, Vice President of Clinical Services, Red Oak Behavioral Health   “The MHAC has helped our organization by way of advocacy and collaboration.The advocacy has helped us regionally and in engaging with different partners.
 It is always helpful to have a bigger base in ways of networking with different agencies.
 In addition, the legislative knowledge of the MHAC staff fosters advocacy with a united recognized voice.”-Margo Spence, President &amp; CEO, First Step Home, Inc.   “The Children’s Home of Cincinnati values our membership with the MHAC.
 The MHAC is a great resource for connections with other organizations in our community that have similar interests in supporting children with behavioral health issues and their families.
 The MHAC provides opportunities to engage with public officials on important issues at both the state and local level that impact us all.
 The return on investment is immeasurable.”-John Banchy, President &amp; CEO, The Children’s Home of Cincinnati   "The Lindner Center of HOPE considers the MHAC a key partner in helping us fulfill our mission of education, awareness and advocacy of mental health in the community.
 The opportunities the MHAC provides to unify this effort with other mental healthcare leaders in the region and the state of Ohio is invaluable.
 In this ever changing world, the MHAC does a great job keeping our organization informed of the latest efforts in legislation and policy changes which can have a big impact on our organization.
 Thanks MHAC for all you do to save lives and reduce suffering!
 "-Mike Glen, Vice President of Business Development/Innovation, Lindner Center for HOPE   "The MHAC leads the charge in local and state advocacy to raise awareness AND resources for mental health and addictions services.
 Child Focus has benefited greatly from membership by staying in the loop on legislative agenda, providing congressional testimony and learning about capital grants.
 "- Tara Keith, Director of Marketing &amp; Development, Child Focus, Inc.
 The Mental Health &amp; Addiction Advocacy Coalition advocates for adequate support of mental health and addiction treatment and supportive services and for systemic change to improve access to behavioral health services.
 More About the MHACNortheast Ohio HubSouthwest Ohio Hub     Join Us           Donate            About the MHACAbout Mission &amp; History State Board &amp; Steering Committees Funders Meet the Staff Contact Us    Local Work &amp; MembersLocal Work Northeast Ohio Hub Southwest Ohio Hub Meet Our Members Join Us Donate    Resources &amp; State-Level WorkBy The Numbers Older Adults Video Training Series Media and Achievements State-Level Work State Budget Legislation      Proudly powered by WordPress  |  	Theme: Dara by Automattic.
