Why Are My Eyes Changing Color?
 Facts About Tears   All About Emotional Tears   Why Do Humans Have Eyebrows and Eyelashes?
 Facts About Tears
        
    Leer en Español:
     Datos Sobre las Lágrimas      
    Written By: Reena Mukamal  
    Reviewed By: Devin A Harrison MD    
    Dec. 21, 2016
      A happy ending to a story, a sad break-up, an onion chopped into pieces—they all can trigger your tears.
 Tears serve many purposes, and your eyes produce them all the time.
 In fact, you make 15 to 30 gallons of tears each year.
 You Have More Than One Type of Tear Tears are essential to help you see clearly and maintain the health of your eyes.
 They can also help communicate your emotions.
 Your body makes three types of tears.
 Basal tears are in your eyes all the time to lubricate, nourish and protect your cornea.
 Basal tears act as a constant shield between the eye and the rest of the world, keeping dirt and debris away.
 Reflex tears are formed when your eyes need to wash away harmful irritants, such as smoke, foreign bodies or onion fumes.
 Your eyes release them in larger amounts than basal tears, and they may contain more antibodies to help fight bacteria.
 Emotional tears are produced in response to joy, sadness, fear and other emotional states.
 Some scientists have proposed that emotional tears contain additional hormones and proteins not present in basal or reflex tears.
 Tears Have Layers Tears are not just saline.
 They have a similar structure to saliva and contain enzymes, lipids, metabolites and electrolytes.
 Each tear has three layers:  An inner mucus layer that keeps the whole tear fastened to the eye.
 A watery middle layer (the thickest layer) to keep the eye hydrated, repel bacteria and protect the cornea.
 An outer oily layer to keep the surface of the tear smooth for the eye to see through, and to prevent the other layers from evaporating.
 How Your Body Makes Tears Lacrimal glands above each eye produce your tears.
 As you blink, tears spread across the surface of the eye.
 Then the tears drain into puncta, tiny holes in the corners of your upper and lower eyelids.
 Your tears then travel through small canals in the lids and down a duct before emptying into your nose.
 There, tears will either evaporate or be reabsorbed.
 Sometimes babies are born with a blocked tear duct, a condition that usually resolves on its own.
 An eye infection, swelling, injury or a tumor can cause a blocked tear duct in adults.
 When a lot of emotional or reflex tears are made, they overwhelm the lacrimal drainage system.
 That’s why these tears can spill out of your eyes, run down your cheeks and sometimes dribble out of your nose.
 You’ll Make Fewer Tears as You Get Older Basal tear production slows with age, and this can lead to the development of dry eye.
 Dry eye is a common problem for people undergoing hormonal changes, especially women during pregnancy and menopause.
 Contact lenses and certain medications can also cause dry eye.
 If you have dry eye, you may also be prone to blepharitis, a common cause of irritation or swelling of the eyelids.
 In addition to seeing an ophthalmologist, there are many simple things you can do at home to keep your eyes moist.
 PreviousWhy Are My Eyes Changing Color?NextAll About Emotional Tears         Related         Pinguecula and Pterygium (Surfer's Eye) Treatment Oct 29, 2020         What Is a Pinguecula and a Pterygium (Surfer's Eye)?
 Oct 29, 2020         The Benefits of Fish Oil for Dry Eye Oct 15, 2020         What Is Dry Eye?
 Sep 22, 2020         How To Cope When Smoke Gets in Your Eyes Sep 15, 2020                     
    Find an Ophthalmologist       Search     Advanced Search          Ask an Ophthalmologist            Browse Answers           Free Newsletter Get ophthalmologist-reviewed tips and information about eye health and preserving your vision.
