Media & Programming
Martí programming decisions are informed by regularly scheduled 
focus groups with recently arrived Cuban immigrants. Broadcasts 
cover a wide range of topics, including news, sports and 
entertainment, with a focus on topics that are generally censored or 
slanted by the government in Havana. The Martís also partner with 
Major League Baseball to broadcast regular games in addition to 
the All Star Game, the Play-Offs and the World Series. 
A partnership 
with the NBA allowed for live coverage of the playoffs, including the 
˜nals, to be broadcast in Cuba for the ˜rst time in 2013.
TV and Radio Martí
Three-time Emmy nominated TV Martí provides outstanding original 
programming to Cuba including:
 Estado de SATS, the ˜rst program in the history of Radio and TV 
Martí to be produced entirely in Cuba.   
 Antena Live, a half-hour newscast providing a dynamic, quick-
paced rundown of the day™s most important events
 Hacia La Democracia (Toward Democracy) a how-to guide, 
produced in partnership with the Albert Einstein Institute, on 
transitioning from a dictatorship to democracy
 Avanza Cuba (Cuba Forward), produced by Radio and TV Martí, 
an open forum offering Cubans around the world the opportunity 
to communicate, learn and share experiences in a united effort
Online & Mobile
 Martinoticias.com offers in-depth analysis of top Cuban and 
international news and a section dedicated to highlighting Cuban 
bloggers.  It also provides 24/7 streaming of TV and Radio Martí 
broadcasts.
 The Martís are active on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter, and 
use these platforms to push out information as well as engage 
listeners. In 2012 OhMyGov, Inc. dubbed the Martí audience as 
the most engaged on Twitter.
 A twice weekly email newsletter, El Pitirre, is sent to over 300,000 
email addresses throughout Cuba.
 SMS text messaging and emails are also used to provide news 
and updates and circumvent government censors.
ﬁ I™ve experienced very touching moments 
while visiting different provinces, and 
people know me not for my blog nor 
for my Twitter account but because 
 of my presence and my voice on 
 Radio Martí
 ﬂŒ 
Yoani Sánchez, Cuban blogger 
 and human rights activist
8/2013
