Skip to content     Facebook Twitter               Pluralist  Counter.
 Narrative.
 Primary Menu   Latest Politics Culture Military/Guns About             Search for:                  HomePoliticsNYC Say It’s Illegal to Call Someone an ‘Illegal Alien’Page 47,777                Politics  NYC Say It’s Illegal to Call Someone an ‘Illegal Alien’   By      Pluralist     /     September 30, 2019         New York City declared on Thursday that using the term “illegal alien” in a derogatory way is illegal in certain contexts and punishable by a fine of up to $250,000.
 The city’s Commission on Human Rights issued new legal enforcement guidance stating that “the use of the term ‘illegal alien,’ among others, when used with the intent to demean, humiliate, or harass a person, is illegal under the law.” The guidelines apply to public accommodations, employment, and housing, according to a statement by the commission.
 Also outlawed are “harassing and discriminating against someone for their use of another language or their limited English proficiency, and threatening to call ICE on a person based on a discriminatory motive.” MORE: NYT Columnist: Either Trump Goes to Jail or ‘Thousands of Journalists’ Will End Up in Prison Camps New York City tweeted the commission’s statement, adding that it is illegal to tell someone to “go back to your country.” “Hate has no place here,” the city said.
 BREAKING:New York City has made it illegal to threaten to call ICE based on a discriminatory motive or to tell someone "go back to your country."
 Hate has no place here.
 pic.twitter.com/8PaIozjQty — City of New York (@nycgov) September 26, 2019  Mayor Bill De Blasio, who earlier this month aborted his 2020 Democratic presidential campaign, retweeted the city’s post.
 He added: “If you want to come into the ultimate city of immigrants and try to spread hate, you WILL face the consequences.”  If you want to come into the ultimate city of immigrants and try to spread hate, you WILL face the consequences.
 https://t.co/QWy54wADZ1 — Mayor Bill de Blasio (@NYCMayor) September 27, 2019  NYC stands up for illegal immigrants Conservative commentators slammed the guidelines as an absurd infringement on free speech.
 The Daily Wire’s Jeremy Frankel tweeted that the policy was clearly unconstitutional.
 How is this even remotely constitutional https://t.co/xLS9xpazOB — Jeremy Frankel (@FrankelJeremy) September 29, 2019   Tom Fitton, the president of Judicial Watch, called it simply “Communism.”  Communism… https://t.co/ZCdNfZiO0O — Tom Fitton (@TomFitton) September 28, 2019  Even immigration lawyer Matthew Kolken disapproved, saying: “The unconstitutional criminalization and restriction of unpopular speech is something that should scare us all.”  I've dedicated my career fighting to prevent the deportation of immigrants, and this scares me.
 The unconstitutional criminalization and restriction of unpopular speech is something that should scare us all.
 https://t.co/wrff3VZIoB — Matthew Kolken (@mkolken) September 29, 2019      MORE: Ex-Top Gear Star Calls Greta Thunberg a ‘Spoilt Brat’ — Gives Her a Lesson Her Parents Won’t    New York has challenged a number of the Trump administration’s attempts to restrict immigration.
 Last week, state and local officials sued to prevent U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement from arresting undocumented immigrants at courthouses.
 “This lawsuit challenges the federal government’s recent unlawful and unconstitutional policy authorizing civil immigration arrests in and around New York State courthouses — a policy that disrupts the effective functioning of our courts, deters victims and witnesses from assisting law enforcement and vindicating their rights, hinders criminal prosecution, and undermines public safety,” the complaint reads.
 ICE spokeswoman Rachel Yong Yow told the New York Post in a statement that the agency’s activities at and around courthouses “are consistent with longstanding law enforcement practices nationwide.” EDITOR’S NOTE: This article has been updated to note that the New York City Commission on Human Rights’ Sept. 26 legal enforcement guidance applies only to public accommodations, employment and housing.
 Some language has been changed, including in the headline, to better reflect that context.
 Cover image:  New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio.
 (Screen grab)     Tags: free speech, immigration, New York City          You may also like     Sharing Is Caring (or Not): The Pros and Cons of Timeshares    By      Pluralist     /     November 4, 2020      Domestic Violence Prevention: Next Steps After a Loved One Hurts You    By      Pluralist     /     October 19, 2020      The Truth Behind Three Personal Finance Myths    By      Pluralist     /     September 24, 2020      The Power of Voting    By      Pluralist Team     /     September 11, 2020      How to Remain Respectful During the Election    By      Pluralist Team     /     September 11, 2020        Post navigation Robert De Niro Explodes on Live TV in Vulgar Anti-Trump Rant — CNN Host Cuts to CommercialTexas Gun Owner Fatally Shot Burglar and Went Back to Bed Before Calling Police             Recent Posts   Advantages Of Internships   How to Become an Expert Pure Romance Consultant   7 Tips For Growing A Translation Agency   Representing Talent in the Music Industry   Sharing Is Caring (or Not): The Pros and Cons of Timeshares         Home Latest Politics Culture Crime About Daily Briefing Follow Us    Facebook Twitter             LINKSPrivacy Policy About Daily Briefing                 Pluralist  Counter.
 Narrative.
 Facebook Twitter                           Copyright © All rights reserved.
 |       Theme: Elegant Magazine by AF themes.
