His company’s Marconi radios ended the isolation of ocean travel and saved hundreds of lives, including all of the surviving passengers from the sinking Titanic.
 In 1909 he shared the Nobel Prize in Physics for his radio work.Guglielmo Marconi’s Early Years  Guglielmo Marconi was born in 1874 in Bologna, Italy.
 His father was a wealthy landowner and his mother was a member of Ireland’s Jameson family of distillers.
 Marconi was educated by tutors and at the Livorno Technical Institute and the University of Bologna.Did you know?
 In his Nobel Prize acceptance speech, radio pioneer Guglielmo Marconi—who was much more a tinkering engineer than a scientist—freely admitted he didn&apos;t really understand how his invention worked.In 1894 Marconi became fascinated with the discovery by German physicist Heinrich Rudolf Hertz of “invisible waves” generated by electromagnetic interactions.
 Marconi built his own wave-generating equipment at his family’s estate and was soon sending signals to locations a mile away.
 After failing to interest the Italian government in his work, Marconi decided to try his luck in London.Guglielmo Marconi in England  The 22-year-old Marconi and his mother arrived in England in 1896 and quickly found interested backers, including the British Post Office.
 Within a year Marconi was broadcasting up to 12 miles and had applied for his first patents.
 A year later, he set up a wireless station on the Isle of Wight that allowed Queen Victoria to send messages to her son Prince Edward aboard the royal yacht.By 1899 Marconi’s signals had crossed the English Channel.
 The same year, Marconi traveled to the United States, where he gained publicity offering wireless coverage of the America’s Cup yacht race from off the coast of New Jersey.Guglielmo Marconi and the Transatlantic “S”  Marconi began to work on improving his wireless for a transatlantic broadcast.
 Many physicists argued that radio waves traveled in straight lines, making it impossible for signals to be broadcast beyond the horizon, but Marconi believed they would follow the planet’s curvature.
 (In fact, the waves do travel in straight lines but bounce off the ionosphere, approximating a curve.)
 After failed attempts to receive a signal from England on Cape Cod, Massachusetts, Marconi decided to try a shorter distance, from Cornwall to Newfoundland.The radio signal broadcast from Poldhu, Cornwall, was as powerful as Marconi’s team could make it—at full power, the equipment sent out sparks a foot long.
 Some 2,100 miles away, atop Signal Hill in St. John’s, Marconi attached an antenna first to a balloon, which blew away, and then to a kite on a 500-foot tether.
 On December 12, 1901, he picked up a faint three-dot sequence—the Morse Code letter “s.”Guglielmo Marconi, the Nobel Prize and Titanic  In 1909 Marconi shared the Nobel Prize in Physics with the German physicist Karl F. Braun, the inventor of the cathode ray tube.
 Marconi’s accolades were not without controversy: many other men had claims (some dubious, some not) to the “Father of Radio” title.
 As early as 1895, the Russian physicist Alexander Popov was broadcasting between buildings, while in India Jagdish Chandra Bose was using radio waves to ring bells and trigger explosions.
 In 1901 the Serbian-American electrical pioneer Nikola Tesla said he had developed a wireless telegraph in 1893; in 1943 the U.S. Supreme Court invalidated four Marconi radio patents, citing Tesla’s prior work.As shipping companies realized the radio telegraph’s usefulness for passenger communication, navigation reports and distress signals, Marconi Company radios—operated by trained cadres of “Marconi Men”—became standard equipment.
 When RMS Titanic struck an iceberg on April 14, 1912, its Marconi operator was able to summon RMS Carpathia to the scene to pick up 700 survivors.Guglielmo Marconi’s Later Years and Legacy  For the next two decades, Marconi continued refining his inventions, experimenting with shortwave broadcasts and testing transmission distances aboard his 700-ton yacht, Elettra.
 He returned to Italy, became a supporter of Benito Mussolini and annulled his first marriage—to an Irish artist with whom he had four children—to wed an Italian noblewoman.
 In 1935 he toured Brazil and Europe defending Mussolini’s invasion of Abyssinia.
 He died two years later of a heart attack in Rome.
 But if you see something that doesn't look right, click here to contact us!VIDEOSEinstein: Einstein's Nobel PrizeEinstein: RegretCotton Gin and Eli WhitneyAlexander Graham BellSubscribe for fascinating stories connecting the past to the present.SIGN UPRELATED CONTENTNikola TeslaSerbian-American engineer and physicist Nikola Tesla (1856-1943) made dozens of breakthroughs in the production, transmission and application of electric power.
 He invented the first alternating current (AC) motor and developed AC generation and transmission technology.
 Though ...read moreThomas EdisonIn his 84 years, Thomas Edison acquired a record number of 1,093 patents (singly or jointly) and was the driving force behind such innovations as the phonograph, the incandescent light bulb and one of the earliest motion picture cameras.
 He also created the world’s first ...read moreMorse Code &amp; the TelegraphDeveloped in the 1830s and 1840s by Samuel Morse (1791-1872) and other inventors, the telegraph revolutionized long-distance communication.
 It worked by transmitting electrical signals over a wire laid between stations.
 In addition to helping invent the telegraph, Samuel Morse ...read moreSamuel ColtIn 1836, Connecticut-born gun manufacturer Samuel Colt (1814-62) received a U.S. patent for a revolver mechanism that enabled a gun to be fired multiple times without reloading.
 Colt founded a company to manufacture his revolving-cylinder pistol; however, sales were slow and the ...read moreAlexander Graham BellAlexander Graham Bell, best known for his invention of the telephone, revolutionized communication as we know it.
 His interest in sound technology was deep-rooted and personal, as both his wife and mother were deaf.
 While there’s some controversy over whether Bell was the true ...read moreWright BrothersWilbur and Orville Wright were American inventors and pioneers of aviation.
 In 1903 the Wright brothers achieved the first powered, sustained and controlled airplane flight; they surpassed their own milestone two years later when they built and flew the first fully practical ...read moreThe Invention of the InternetUnlike technologies such as the light bulb or the telephone, the internet has no single “inventor.” Instead, it has evolved over time.
 The internet got its start in the United States more than 50 years ago as a government weapon in the Cold War.
 For years, scientists and ...read moreAutomobile HistoryThe automobile was first invented and perfected in Germany and France in the late 1800s, though Americans quickly came to dominate the automotive industry in the first half of the twentieth century.
 Henry Ford innovated mass-production techniques that became standard, and Ford, ...read moreAlbert Einstein: Fact or Fiction?Was Albert Einstein really a poor student, did he almost become the president of Israel and what, if anything, did he have to do with the development of the atomic bomb?
 Separate Einstein myth from reality and explore some of the most startling chapters from the life story of ...read moreLoading…See MoreAd ChoicesAdvertiseClosed CaptioningCopyright PolicyCorporate InformationEmployment OpportunitiesFAQ/Contact UsPrivacy NoticeTerms of UseTV Parental GuidelinesRSS FeedsAccessibility Support© 2020 A&E; Television Networks, LLC.
 All Rights Reserved.
