Drug &amp; Alcohol Addiction						    									What is Addiction?
 Withdrawal Symptoms								    									Facts About Quitting								    									Cravings &amp; Relapse								    									Overdose Signs								    									Drug &amp; Alcohol Facts								      							Recovery						    									Alcoholism Recovery								    									Drug Abuse Recovery								    									12 Step Programs								    									Non-12 Step Programs								    									Alcoholics Anonymous								    									Narcotics Anonymous								    									Life After Rehab								      							Treatment Information						    									Cost of Rehab								    									Types of Programs								    									Choosing a Program								    									What Happens in Rehab?
 Rehab &amp; Recovery Myths								      						Helplines					    						About AAC					               						More					         				Stages of Recovery			    				Pro Corner			    				Forums			    				Blog			    				Drug &amp; Alcohol Addiction			    						What is Addiction?
 Withdrawal Symptoms					    						Facts About Quitting					    						Cravings &amp; Relapse					    						Overdose Signs					    						Drug &amp; Alcohol Facts					      				Recovery			    						Alcoholism Recovery					    						Drug Abuse Recovery					    						12 Step Programs					    						Non-12 Step Programs					    						Alcoholics Anonymous					    						Narcotics Anonymous					    						Life After Rehab					      				Treatment Information			    						Cost of Rehab					    						Types of Programs					    						Choosing a Program					    						What Happens in Rehab?
 Rehab &amp; Recovery Myths					      				About AAC			    				Crisis			    				Helplines			    				Learn			          			Finding good treatment could 			 				Save Your Life 			    				Treatment is just one quick search away 			       						Zip Code: 					    							Search 						           Recovery.org, take control of your addiction.
 At Recovery.org, we strive to support the full recovery lifestyle and understand that it is a journey and not a destination.
 By offering reliable information and resources, we connect people facing a common struggle with the tools they need to maintain lifelong recovery.
 Addiction Recovery Helplines  Addiction Recovery Programs  Find Inpatient Treatment Facilities  Does Your Insurance Cover Treatment?
 Am I Addicted?
 Recovery.org supports and provides resources for the recovery lifestyle, including pre-treatment, treatment, aftercare, and potential relapse.
 Recovery from a substance use disorder is not a short-term goal—it is a life-long process.
 Addiction Treatment The path to addiction treatment isn’t a straight line, and the process for each person is as unique as the people we’re helping.
 As you move down the path for recovery, there can be confusion, struggle, and even steps backward.
 Recovery.org is an American Addiction Centers resource and aims to help each person find the information and support that they need as they work their way toward healing.For more information, give our team a call at  1-888-319-2606  	Who Answers?
 Find Local Addiction Recovery Centers 				   						When you opt for the increased success rates common to some of the top residential recovery centers, you give yourself or your loved one the best chance of achieving and maintaining sobriety.
 However, you'll still need to consider whether to seek addiction treatment locally or take it out-of-state, putting distance between you and any abuse triggers.
 If you know someone who has gone through an alcoholic recovery program or has received drug treatment, ask them their opinion on the program they attended!
 For everyone else, calling a toll-free recovery hotline - whether it’s ours or another reputable service's - is an excellent way to start.
 You can discuss your local drug and alcohol recovery program options and have any questions answered that you might have about substance abuse insurance coverage.
 Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming      Recovery In The Press                            					The Process of Recovery from Addiction 				   						The path to getting sober and drug-free is never exactly the same for any two people.
 However, anyone looking to find out more about rehab and recovery - either for themselves or their loved ones - will recognize some common steps, particularly when it comes to inpatient residential treatment programs.
 These steps are usually similar whether you’re looking for private alcoholism treatment or a drug addiction recovery center.
 To start with, getting sober and drug-free requires the desire and determination to get clean, and having both of these is crucial.
 If you’re looking for help for a loved one or a friend, know that they’ll need to be “on board" with the idea of recovery if they are going to have a solid chance of getting clean.
 If they have not yet recognized their own problem, an addiction intervention may be necessary.
 During the beginning phases of recovery, an alcohol and drug detox is always necessary to remove any unwanted chemicals from the body, followed by intensive addiction recovery therapy.
 The latter may take 28-90 days (sometimes more), but completing the program provides all the tools needed to stay substance-free.
 It is highly beneficial for those leaving rehab to join a recovery support group and even consider spending time in a recovery home.
 What a person learns during rehab and any extended recovery program is how to steer clear of drugs and alcohol through relapse prevention, and developing positive, healthy methods of coping to continue living a happy, drug-free life.
 Recovery Programs and Support Groups 				   						For every addiction, there are recovery programs and support groups to help those looking to kick their habits.
 Generally speaking, these programs can be grouped into one of two big buckets: those following a 12-step approach, and those that do not.
 Which you choose will be a matter of personal preference and – to some – whether you believe in a higher power, which 12-step programs typically promote.
 Either way, these resources can help you stay happy, healthy and social after your course of recovery from drug addiction or alcoholism treatment.
 12-Step Substance Abuse 							    								12-Step Behavioral 							    								Non 12-Step 							    								Relapse Prevention 							     					Exploring Alcohol and Drug Rehab and Other Treatment Options 				   						You have a wealth of choices when it comes to alcohol and drug addiction treatment.
 Depending on your situation, the severity and type of addiction and your resources, you may opt for a residential recovery program, an outpatient one, support groups, or a combination of them.
 It really comes down to the person and their needs.
 If you or your loved one need help but are still feeling a bit lost or overwhelmed by the choices in front of you, our helpline advisors work 24/7 via our toll-free number to connect you with the best treatment.
 Call when you’re ready to get clean and sober – 1-888-319-2606  	Who Answers?
 .
 Popular Topics 							     											Alcohol Recovery 										    											Cocaine Programs 										    											Crystal Meth 										    											Heroin Recovery 										    											Marijuana Programs 										         								Recent Pro Corner Posts 							         														Enhance Your Wellbeing: Find Purpose													        Nadia Ghaffari             														Enhance Your Wellbeing: Write &amp; Reflect													        Nadia Ghaffari             														The Power of Social Connection During COVID-19													        Nadia Ghaffari             														Approaches to Self-Care As We Gradually Emerge Out of Shelter-in-Place													        Nadia Ghaffari                 			Seeking Addiction Treatment?
 If you or someone you love is trying to make a complete drug or alcohol recovery, you'll want to make sure you choose well.
 Whether you require a luxury residential addiction program, executive substance abuse treatment or just an outpatient program, we provide toll-free help.
 1-888-319-2606   	Who Answers?
 Select State by Letter 		     						A					    						B					    						C					    						D					    						E					    						F					    						G					    						H					    						I					    						J					    						K					    						L					    						M					    						N					    						O					    						P					    						Q					    						R					    						S					    						T					    						U					    						V					    						W					    						X					    						Y					    						Z					     			Results 		    					Alabama				    					Alaska				    					Arizona				    					Arkansas				    					California				    					Colorado				    					Connecticut				    					Delaware				    					District Of Columbia				    					Florida				    					Georgia				    					Hawaii				    					Idaho				    					Illinois				    					Indiana				    					Iowa				    					Kansas				    					Kentucky				    					Louisiana				    					Maine				    					Maryland				    					Massachusetts				    					Michigan				    					Minnesota				    					Mississippi				    					Missouri				    					Montana				    					Nebraska				    					Nevada				    					New Hampshire				    					New Jersey				    					New Mexico				    					New York				    					North Carolina				    					North Dakota				    					Ohio				    					Oklahoma				    					Oregon				    					Pennsylvania				    					Rhode Island				    					South Carolina				    					South Dakota				    					Tennessee				    					Texas				    					Utah				    					Vermont				    					Virginia				    					Washington				    					West Virginia				    					Wisconsin				    					Wyoming				       GENERAL DISCLAIMER Recovery.org is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in providing medical or health advice.
 The information provided through Recovery.org is not to be used for diagnosing or treating any health problem or disease.
 It is not meant to be a substitute for professional care.
 If you have or suspect you may have a health problem you should consult your health care provider.
 All Recovery.org authors, editors, producers, and contributors shall have no liability, obligation, or responsibility to any person or entity for any loss, damage, or adverse consequence alleged to have happened directly or indirectly as a consequence of material on this website or any linked to content or providers referred to.
 Recovery.org is operated by Recovery Brands LLC, a subsidiary of American Addiction Centers, Inc.
 Learn more about what this means here.
 © Recovery.org 2020 All Rights Reserved  	   					Terms of Use				    					Privacy Policy
