Skip to main content              Menu       Search    Search the NHS website       Search      Close search        Menu     Close menu        Home           Health A-Z          Live Well          Care and support          Health news          Services near you              Home   Health A to Z    Back to Health A to Z        Acute respiratory distress syndrome       Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a life-threatening condition where the lungs cannot provide the body's vital organs with enough oxygen.It's usually a complication of a serious existing health condition.
 This means most people are already in hospital by the time they develop ARDS.
 Symptoms of ARDS Symptoms of ARDS can include:severe shortness of breathrapid, shallow breathingtiredness, drowsiness or confusionfeeling faintWhen to get urgent medical helpAlthough most people get ARDS when they're already in hospital, this is not always the case.
 It can start quickly as a result of an infection, such as pneumonia, or if someone accidentally inhales their vomit.Call 999 immediately to ask for an ambulance if a child or adult is having breathing problems.
 What causes ARDS?
 ARDS happens when the lungs become severely inflamed from an infection or injury.
 The inflammation causes fluid from nearby blood vessels to leak into the tiny air sacs in your lungs, making breathing increasingly difficult.The lungs can become inflamed after:pneumonia or severe flusepsisa severe chest injuryaccidentally inhaling vomit, smoke or toxic chemicalsnear drowningacute pancreatitis – a serious condition where the pancreas becomes inflamed over a short timean adverse reaction to a blood transfusion   Diagnosing ARDS There's no specific test to diagnose ARDS.
 A full assessment is needed to identify the underlying cause and rule out other conditions.The assessment is likely to include:a physical examinationblood tests to measure the amount of oxygen in the blood and check for an infectiona pulse oximetry test, where a sensor attached to your fingertip, ear or toe is used to measure how much oxygen your blood is absorbinga chest X-ray and a CT scan to look for evidence of ARDSan echocardiogram – a type of ultrasound scan that's used to look at your heart and nearby blood vessels   Treating ARDS If you develop ARDS, you'll probably be admitted to an intensive care unit (ICU) and use a breathing machine (ventilator) to help your breathing.You breathe through a mask attached to the machine.
 If your breathing is severely affected, a breathing tube may be inserted down your throat and into your lungs.Fluids and nutrients will be supplied through a feeding tube (nasogastric tube) that's passed through your nose and into your stomach.The underlying cause of ARDS should also be treated.
 For example, if it's caused by a bacterial infection, you may need antibiotics.How long you'll need to stay in hospital depends on your individual circumstances and the cause of ARDS.
 Most people respond well to treatment, but it may be several weeks or months before you're well enough to leave hospital.
 Complications of ARDS Because ARDS is often caused by a serious health condition, about 1 in 3 people who get it will die.
 But most deaths are the result of the underlying illness, rather than ARDS itself.For those who survive, the main complications are linked with nerve and muscle damage, which causes pain and weakness.Some people also develop psychological problems, such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression.The lungs usually recover and long-term lung failure after ARDS is rare.
 Page last reviewed: 12 March 2020   Next review due: 12 March 2023            Support links  NHS sites About us Contact us Profile editor login Sitemap Accessibility statement Our policies Cookies  © Crown copyright
