Skip to sub-navigation   U.S. Energy Information Administration - EIA - Independent Statistics and Analysis   Search         Menu     + Sources &amp; Uses    + Topics    + Geography      + Tools    + Learn About Energy    + News        Sources &amp; Uses   Topics   Geography   Tools   Learn About Energy   News          Petroleum &amp; Other Liquids  Crude oil, gasoline, heating oil, diesel, propane, and other liquids including biofuels and natural gas liquids.
 This Week in Petroleum   Weekly Petroleum Status Report       Natural Gas  Exploration and reserves, storage, imports and exports, production, prices, sales.
 Weekly Natural Gas Storage Report   Natural Gas Weekly Update       Electricity  Sales, revenue and prices, power plants, fuel use, stocks, generation, trade, demand &amp; emissions.
 Electric Power Monthly   Electricity Data Browser       Consumption &amp; Efficiency  Energy use in homes, commercial buildings, manufacturing, and transportation.
 Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS)   Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS)         Coal  Reserves, production, prices, employment and productivity, distribution, stocks, imports and exports.
 Quarterly Coal Report   Coal Data Browser       Renewable &amp; Alternative Fuels  Includes hydropower, solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and ethanol.
 Alternative Fuel Vehicle Browser       Nuclear &amp; Uranium  Uranium fuel, nuclear reactors, generation, spent fuel.
 Daily Status of Nuclear Outages       Total Energy  Comprehensive data summaries, comparisons, analysis, and projections integrated across all energy sources.
 Monthly Energy Review   Annual Energy Review            Analysis &amp; Projections  Monthly and yearly energy forecasts, analysis of energy topics, financial analysis, congressional reports.
 Short-Term Energy Outlook   Annual Energy Outlook   International Energy Outlook       Markets &amp; Finance  Financial market analysis and financial data for major energy companies.
 Market Prices and Uncertainty Report   Energy &amp; Financial Markets: What Drives Crude Oil Prices?
 Environment  Greenhouse gas data, voluntary reporting, electric power plant emissions.
 U.S.
 Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions at the State Level, 2005-2016 Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions at the State Level, through 2017      Energy Disruptions  Maps, tools, and resources related to energy disruptions and infrastructure.
 Energy Disruptions           U.S. States  State energy information, including overviews, rankings, data, and analyses.
 State Energy Data System (SEDS)       Maps  Maps by energy source and topic, includes forecast maps.
 U.S. Energy Mapping System   Gulf of Mexico         International  International energy information, including overviews, rankings, data, and analyses.
 International Energy Statistics       Regional Dashboards &amp; Data  Regional energy information including dashboards, maps, data, and analyses.
 New England Dashboard   Southern California Daily Energy Report   Energy Disruptions            Glossary            Data Tools, Apps, &amp; Maps  Tools to customize searches, view specific data sets, study detailed documentation, and access time-series data.
 Open Data  EIA's free and open data available as API, Excel add-in, bulk files, and widgets     EIA Beta  Come test out some of the products still in development and let us know what you think!
 Follow us.
 .
 .
 All Reports &amp; Publications               EIA Survey Forms  Forms EIA uses to collect energy data including descriptions, links to survey instructions, and additional information.
 Email Updates  Sign up for email subcriptions to receive messages about specific EIA products     RSS Feeds  Subscribe to feeds for updates on EIA products including Today in Energy and What's New.
 Today in Energy  Short, timely articles with graphics on energy, facts, issues, and trends.
 Energy Explained    What is Energy?
 Units &amp; Calculators   U.S. Energy Facts   Use of Energy   Energy &amp; Environment   Petroleum   Hydrocarbon Gas Liquids   Natural Gas     Coal   Nuclear   Electricity   Hydropower   Biofuels: Ethanol &amp; Biomass-based Diesel   Wind   Geothermal   Solar       For Teachers  Lesson plans, science fair experiments, field trips, teacher guide, and career corner.
 Glossary            FAQs    Coal   Conversion &amp; Equivalents   Oil/Petroleum   Diesel   Electricity   Environment     Gasoline   General Energy   Natural Gas   Nuclear   Prices   Renewables                             What's New?
 State Electricity Profiles updated with 2019 dataNov 02, 2020Petroleum Marketing MonthlyNov 02, 2020Natural Gas MonthlyOct 30, 2020 See what's new      Press Room    Press Releases   Congressional Testimony   Presentations   Events   Radio Spots         Coming Up   Coming Up Monthly Energy Review › Natural Gas Monthly › Monthly Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production › More ›      Featured Reports  Reports requested by congress or otherwise deemed important.
 Midwest and Rocky Mountain Transportation Fuels Markets   East Coast and Gulf Coast Transportation Fuels Markets   West Coast Transportation Fuels Markets   Southern California Daily Energy Report   Effects of the Clean Power Plan          A-Z Index   A |
 							B |
 							C |
 							D |
 							E |
 							F |
 							G |
 							H |
 							I |
 							J |
 							K |
 							L |
 							M |
 							N |
 							O |
 							P |
 							Q |
 							R |
 							S |
 							T |
 							U |
 							V |
 							W |
 							XYZ           Enter Search Term(s):     
 					// 
 				            Wind explained
 			Electricity generation from wind       Basics +Menu        What is energy?
 Units and calculators    U.S. energy facts    Use of energy    Energy and the environment   Close   Also in What is energy?
 What is energy?
 Forms of energy Sources of energy Laws of energy     Close   Also in Units and calculators explained Units and calculators Energy conversion calculators British thermal units (Btu) Degree days     Close   Also in U.S. energy facts explained U.S. energy facts State and U.S. territory data     Close   Also in Use of energy explained Use of energy Energy use in industry Energy use for transportation Energy use in homes Energy use in commercial buildings Energy efficiency and conservation     Close   Also in Energy and the environment explained Energy and the environment Greenhouse gases Greenhouse gases and the climate Where greenhouse gases come from Outlook for future emissions Recycling and energy       
   Nonrenewable sources
      Oil and petroleum products    Gasoline    Diesel fuel    Heating oil    Close   Also in Oil and petroleum products explained Oil and petroleum products Refining crude oil Where our oil comes from Imports and exports Offshore oil and gas Use of oil Prices and outlook Oil and the environment     Close   Also in Gasoline explained Gasoline Octane in depth Where our gasoline comes from Use of gasoline Prices and outlook Factors affecting gasoline prices Regional price differences Price fluctuations History of gasoline Gasoline and the environment     Close   Also in Diesel fuel explained Diesel fuel Where our diesel comes from Use of diesel Prices and outlook Factors affecting diesel prices Diesel fuel surcharges Diesel and the environment     Close   Also in Heating oil explained Heating oil Where our heating oil comes from Use of heating oil Prices and outlook Factors affecting heating oil prices       Hydrocarbon Gas Liquids    Natural gas    Coal    Nuclear    Close   Also in Hydrocarbon gas liquids explained Hydrocarbon gas liquids Where do hydrocarbon gas liquids come from?
 Transporting and storing Uses of hydrocarbon gas liquids Imports and exports Prices     Close   Also in Natural gas explained Natural gas Delivery and storage Natural gas pipelines Liquefied natural gas Where our natural gas comes from Imports and exports How much gas is left Use of natural gas Prices Factors affecting natural gas prices Natural gas and the environment Customer choice programs     Close   Also in Coal explained Coal Mining and transportation Where our coal comes from Imports and exports How much coal is left Use of coal Prices and outlook Coal and the environment     Close   Also in Nuclear explained Nuclear Nuclear power plants The nuclear fuel cycle Where our uranium comes from U.S. nuclear industry Nuclear power and the environment        
   Renewable sources
      Renewable energy    Hydropower    Biomass    Biofuels: Ethanol and Biomass-based diesel   Close   Also in Renewable energy explained Renewable energy Types &amp; usages Incentives Portfolio standards     Close   Also in Hydropower explained Hydropower Where hydropower is generated Hydropower and the environment Tidal power Wave power Ocean thermal energy conversion     Close   Also in Biomass explained Biomass Wood and wood waste Waste-to-energy (MSW) Landfill gas and biogas Biomass and the environment     Close   Also in Biofuels explained Biofuels Ethanol Use of ethanol Ethanol and the environment Biomass-based diesel fuels Use of biomass-based diesel fuel Biomass-based diesel and the environment      Wind    Geothermal    Solar   Close   Also in Wind explained Wind Electricity generation from wind Where wind power is harnessed Types of wind turbines History of wind power Wind energy and the environment     Close   Also in Geothermal explained Geothermal Where geothermal energy is found Use of geothermal energy Geothermal power plants Geothermal heat pumps Geothermal energy and the environment     Close   Also in Solar explained Solar Photovoltaics and electricity Where solar is found and used Solar thermal power plants Solar thermal collectors Solar energy and the environment       
   Secondary sources
      Electricity    Hydrogen   Close   Also in Electricity explained Electricity The science of electricity Magnets and electricity Batteries, circuits, and transformers Measuring electricity How electricity is generated Electricity in the United States Generation, capacity, and sales Delivery to consumers Use of electricity Prices and factors affecting prices Electricity and the environment     Close   Also in Hydrogen explained Hydrogen Production of hydrogen Use of hydrogen            How wind turbines work Wind turbines use blades to collect the wind’s kinetic energy.
 Wind flows 
 						over the blades creating lift (similar to the effect on airplane wings), 
 						which causes the blades to turn.
 The blades are connected to a drive shaft that turns an electric generator, which produces (generates) electricity.
 Diagram of wind turbine components Source: National Renewable Energy Laboratory, U.S. Department of Energy (public domain)     Click to enlarge   Electricity generation with wind The amount of wind electricity generation has grown significantly in the past 30 years.
 Advances in wind energy technology have decreased the cost of producing electricity from wind, and government and other incentives in the United States and in other countries have encouraged growth in wind power.
 U.S. total annual Electricity generation from wind electricity generation in the United States increased from about 6 billion kilowatthours (kWh) in 2000 to about 300 billion kWh in 2019.
 In 2019, wind turbines in the United States were the source of about 7.3% of total U.S. utility-scale electricity generation.
 Utility scale includes facilities with at least one megawatt (1,000 kilowatts) of electricity generation capacity.
 Last updated: March 24, 2020       Also in Wind explained Wind Electricity generation from wind Where wind power is harnessed Types of wind turbines History of wind power Wind energy and the environment      Learn more Monthly Energy Review: Electricity  Electric Power Monthly Wind Energy Technologies Office Energy 101: Wind Turbines (video) Offshore Wind Energy Articles on wind energy      Also on Energy Explained U.S. energy facts Electricity in the United States Electricity generation, capacity, and sales      Frequently asked questions How much of world energy consumption and production is from renewable energy?
 General energy FAQs Renewable energy FAQs                 About EIA Open Data Press Room Careers Contact Us    U.S. Energy Information Administration1000 Independence Ave., SW Washington, DC 20585 U.S. Energy Information Administration, 1000 Independence Ave., SW, Washington, DC 20585     Sources &amp; Uses Petroleum Coal Natural Gas Renewable Nuclear Electricity Consumption Total Energy   Topics Analysis &amp; Projections Environment Markets &amp; Finance Energy Disruptions Today in Energy  Geography States Countries Maps   Tools A-Z Index All Reports &amp; Publications Data Tools, Apps, and Maps EIA Survey Forms EIA Beta   Policies Privacy/Security Copyright &amp; Reuse Accessibility Information Quality Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)   Related Sites U.S. Department of Energy USA.gov   Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr LinkedIn Email Updates RSS Feeds
