Or sign in with a social account: FACEBOOK GOOGLE + TWITTER YAHOO!
 Don't have an account yet?
 Discover.
 Share.
 Get the most out of your experience with a personalized all-access pass to everything local on events, music, restaurants, news and more.
 Enter your email or sign up with a social account to get started  FACEBOOK TWITTER GOOGLE+ YAHOO!
 Privacy Policy SIGN UP ›    Already registered?
 That's a no-go in the NFL -- so instead of writing the digits on his face, he wrote them in the box score of the Broncos' unbelievably improbable 29-23 overtime victory against the Pittsburgh Steelers, by throwing for 316 yards.
 We'll have more on this game tomorrow -- but in the meantime, check out the winning touchdown below and ponder the question about whether The Chosen One's total yardage in the contest was a coincidence.Click to follow and like the Michael Roberts Facebook page.More from our Sports archive: "Tim Tebow's 10 most motivational Bible verse recommendations &amp; when to use them (PICS)."
 I Support 			  Local Community Journalism      Support the independent voice of Denver and help keep the future of Westword free.
 Support Us         Keep Westword Free...
 Since we started Westword, it has been defined as the free, independent voice of Denver, and we would like to keep it that way.
 Offering our readers free access to incisive coverage of local news, food and culture.
 Producing stories on everything from political scandals to the hottest new bands, with gutsy reporting, stylish writing, and staffers who've won everything from the Society of Professional Journalists' Sigma Delta Chi feature-writing award to the Casey Medal for Meritorious Journalism.
 But with local journalism's existence under siege and advertising revenue setbacks having a larger impact, it is important now more than ever for us to rally support behind funding our local journalism.
 You can help by participating in our "I Support" membership program, allowing us to keep covering Denver with no paywalls.
 Sports         Michael Roberts has written for Westword since October 1990, serving stints as music editor and media columnist.
 He currently covers everything from breaking news and politics to sports and stories that defy categorization.
 Contact:  Michael Roberts   Follow:         Facebook: Michael Roberts          Twitter: @mikerobertscolo            Trending News    Op-Ed: The Progressive Case Against Proposition EE   Pro-Cory Gardner Fliers' Allegedly Racist Link to Fatal...
 ©2020 Denver Westword, LLC.
 All rights reserved.
 By clicking 'X' or continuing to use the site, you agree to allow cookies to be placed.
 To find out more, visit our cookies policy and our privacy policy.
 Support our journalism &gt;   Privacy Policy         Join the Westword community and help support independent local journalism in Denver.
 Get the latest updates in news, food, music and culture, and receive special offers direct to your inbox Sign Up Now &gt; No Thanks Become a donor and go ad-free!
