Jump to main content     
      Jump to site search            Publishing     Journals Books Databases       Search    Advanced                       Publishing     Journals   Current Journals   Archive Journals   All Journals     Books   New Titles   All   Bookshop   Pick and Choose     Databases   Literature Updates   ChemSpider   The Merck Index*   MarinLit     More   For Members   For Librarians   Subscribe   RSS Feeds   Blogs   Chemistry World   Education in Chemistry   Open Access   Historical Collection                  
     You do not have JavaScript enabled.
 Please enable JavaScript
     to access the full features of the site or access our
     non-JavaScript page.
 The anti-cancer activities of these formulations were explored in neuroblastoma models of both MYCN-amplified and non-amplified cell lines.
 Ceria nanoparticles, coated with dextran and loaded with curcumin, were found to induce substantial cell death in neuroblastoma cells (up to a 2-fold and a 1.6-fold decrease in cell viability for MYCN-upregulated and normal expressing cell lines, respectively; *p &lt; 0.05) while producing no or only minor toxicity in healthy cells (no toxicity at 100 μM; **p &lt; 0.01).
 This formulation evokes prolonged oxidative stress, stabilizing HIF-1α, and inducing caspase-dependent apoptosis (up to a 2.4-fold increase over control; *p &lt; 0.05).
 Overall, nano-therapeutic treatments showed a more pronounced effect in MYCN-amplified cells, which are traditionally more resistant to drug therapies.
 These results represent a very promising alternative to small molecule drug therapies for robust cancers.
 You have access to this article
             
            Please wait while we load your content...
            
            Something went wrong.
 Try again?
 About Cited by Related    Back to tab navigation    
             Download options Please wait...
 Supplementary files     
       Supplementary information
        PDF (465K)       Article information  https://doi.org/10.1039/C7NR02770B    Submitted 19 Apr 2017   Accepted 07 Jun 2017   First published 09 Jun 2017       Download Citation   Nanoscale, 2017,9, 10375-10387
         BibTex EndNote MEDLINE ProCite ReferenceManager RefWorks RIS           Article type Paper    Permissions  
     Request permissions
           
    Nanoparticle delivery of curcumin induces cellular hypoxia and ROS-mediated apoptosis via modulation of Bcl-2/Bax in human neuroblastoma
    
 
  I. Kalashnikova, J. Mazar, C. J. Neal, A. L. Rosado, S. Das, T. J. Westmoreland and S. Seal,
    Nanoscale, 2017, 9, 10375
 
      DOI: 10.1039/C7NR02770B
        
   If you are not the author of this article and you wish to reproduce material from
   it in a third party non-RSC publication you must 
    formally request permission using Copyright Clearance Center.
 Go to our 
    Instructions for using Copyright Clearance Center page for details.
 Authors contributing to RSC publications (journal articles, books or book chapters)
   do not need to formally request permission to reproduce material contained in this
   article provided that the correct acknowledgement is given with the reproduced material.
 Reproduced material should be attributed as follows:
     
     For reproduction of material from NJC:
     
     Reproduced from Ref.
 XX with permission from the Centre National de la Recherche
     Scientifique (CNRS) and The Royal Society of Chemistry.
 For reproduction of material from PCCP:
     
     Reproduced from Ref.
 XX with permission from the PCCP Owner Societies.
 For reproduction of material from PPS:
     
     Reproduced from Ref.
 XX with permission from the European Society for Photobiology,
     the European Photochemistry Association, and The Royal Society of Chemistry.
 For reproduction of material from all other RSC journals and books:
     
     Reproduced from Ref.
 XX with permission from The Royal Society of Chemistry.
 If the material has been adapted instead of reproduced from the original RSC publication
   "Reproduced from" can be substituted with "Adapted from".
 In all cases the Ref.
 XX is the XXth reference in the list of references.
 If you are the author of this article you do not need to formally request permission
   to reproduce figures, diagrams etc.
 contained in this article in third party publications
   or in a thesis or dissertation provided that the correct acknowledgement is given
   with the reproduced material.
 Reproduced material should be attributed as follows:
     
     For reproduction of material from NJC:
     
     [Original citation] - Reproduced by permission of The Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) on behalf of the
     Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS) and the RSC
     
     For reproduction of material from PCCP:
     
     [Original citation] - Reproduced by permission of the PCCP Owner Societies
     
     For reproduction of material from PPS:
     
     [Original citation] - Reproduced by permission of The Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) on behalf of the
     European Society for Photobiology, the European Photochemistry Association, and
     RSC
     
     For reproduction of material from all other RSC journals:
     
     [Original citation] - Reproduced by permission of The Royal Society of Chemistry
       
   If you are the author of this article you still need to obtain permission to reproduce
   the whole article in a third party publication with the exception of reproduction
   of the whole article in a thesis or dissertation.
 Information about reproducing material from RSC articles with different licences
   is available on our Permission Requests page.
 This may take some time to load.
