Site Map   Accessibility   Contact   Cookies   Contact us   Log in                  Home   About us   News and Media   Events   Research   Publications   Study with us   Our team   Recruiting Studies        Search             About us              About Us                        The Oxford Vaccine Group (OVG) conducts studies of new and improved vaccines for children and adults and is based in the Department of Paediatrics at the University of Oxford.
 The group is led by Professor Andrew J Pollard.
 OVG was founded in 1994 by Professor E. Richard Moxon.
 The multidisciplinary group, led by Professor Pollard since 2001, includes consultants in vaccinology, a Director of Clinical Trials, a Senior Clinical Trials Manager, adult and paediatric clinical research fellows, adult and paediatric research nurses, project managers, statisticians, QA manager, Clinical Trials IT and Development Lead, and an administration team.
 Our team also includes post doctoral scientists, research assistants and DPhil students and we work together with professionals from a range of specialities such as immunologists, microbiologists, epidemiologists, health communicators, and a sociologist, a community paediatrician, the local Health Protection team and a bioethicist.
 OVG is a UKCRC registered clinical trials unit working in collaboration with the Primary Care Trials Unit at the University (registration number: 52).
 For more information see: http://www.ukcrc-ctu.org.uk/     Conflicts of Interest Statement and Publication Policy      Oxford Vaccine Group follows and works in accordance with the University of Oxford’s Statement of policy and procedure on conflict of interest.
 Some Oxford Vaccine Group staff work on clinical trials which are conducted by the University of Oxford and sponsored and/or funded by vaccine manufacturers.
 The sponsors and/or funders of this research are always declared in the scientific publications relating to these studies.
 Oxford Vaccine Group staff do not accept gifts or direct personal payments from vaccine manufacturers.
 Oxford Vaccine Group staff do not participate in advisory boards for vaccine manufacturers or speak at industry sponsored symposia.
 Oxford Vaccine Group staff do not seek additional funding or support from vaccine manufacturers for travel or attendance at meetings or conferences.
 The results of all clinical trials conducted at Oxford Vaccine Group are published in peer-reviewed journals, and the editorial role of the Oxford Vaccine Group in authorship of these academic papers meets or exceeds the ICMJE guidelines.
 Oxford Vaccine Group and all its staff act to ensure the independence of the research that is undertaken by the Group on behalf of the University.
 Two annual conferences run by the Department of Paediatrics receive unrestricted educational grants from vaccine manufacturers: the annual Immunisation Seminar (for GPs and practice nurses) and “Infection and Immunity in Children” (a course for doctors).
 Neither organisers nor speakers receive any personal payment for these educational activities.
 About Us   Job Vacancies   VACCSline   Past Newsletter     Get Involved   Public Involvement Group   Work with schools     Contact Us   Cookies                             ©      2020      Oxford Vaccine Group, Centre for Clinical Vaccinology and Tropical Medicine (CCVTM), Churchill Hospital Old Road, Headington Oxford United Kingdom OX3 7LE        Freedom of Information   Privacy Policy   Copyright Statement   Accessibility Statement   Data Privacy Notice          Site Map   Accessibility   Contact   Cookies   Contact us   Log in               About us     Job Vacancies     VACCSline     Past Newsletter       Get Involved     Public Involvement Group     Work with schools       Contact Us     Cookies       News and Media     Herd Immunity: How does it work?
 It’s World Immunisation Week!
 Partnership announces publication of positive phase 1 data for Ebola vaccine regimen     Vaccine Knowledge App     Dr Matthew Snape wins prize for engaging the public     Going Viral     Everything you need to know about chickenpox and why more countries don’t use the vaccine     OVG's Andrew Pollard joins the Fellowship of the Academy of Medical Sciences     Vaccine Knowledge Project becomes member of the World Health Organization's Vaccine Safety Net     International consortium, including OVG, receives $36.9 million grant to fight Typhoid     World Pneumonia Day: Making vaccines work to prevent pneumonia     Talking to parents about MenB vaccine: a film for healthcare professionals     BBC: Would you trial an Ebola vaccine?
 Oxford vaccine test volunteers infected with typhoid     Understanding RSV, a major cause of respiratory illness in infants.
 Good news in the fight against typhoid: new vaccine study shows promising results     Winners at the Thames Valley Health Research Awards     OSPREA and OVG's recruitment success for study of maternal vaccines against RSV     New technology could allow multiple vaccines to be delivered in single jab     Typhoid vaccine set to have 'huge impact'     Mildred Iro wins best paediatrics paper of 2017!
 Anti-vaxxer effect on vaccination rates is exaggerated     Medical Sciences heads to the Big Bang Fair     Be on the TEAM: TEenagers Against Meningitis     Oxford Vaccine Group leads meningitis vaccine trial for teenagers     A third of health practitioners do not get vaccinated against flu     Launching a typhoid vaccine study in Nepal     Support for a new typhoid vaccine     How do vaccines work?
 International Clinical Trials Day at the Children's Hospital     NHS features the Meningitis B vaccine in its "70 years, 70 discoveries" campaign     Pregnant women invited to take part in pioneering diabetes prevention research     Vaccinations and the fight against poverty     Halting the spread of salmonella     "Did you know...?"
 How was typhoid eliminated in the past?
 Paediatrics celebrates International Clinical Trials Day     The key to better childhood vaccines might be in our DNA     Should vaccines be made compulsory?
 The global value of vaccination     Solving the riddle of the typhoid toxin     16th Immunisation Seminar     Professor Pollard among the world's most distinguished paediatricians     Is mandatory vaccination the best way to tackle falling rates of childhood immunisation?
 International neglect of typhoid outside rich countries threatens a new global health emergency     Decades neglecting an ancient disease has triggered a health emergency around the world     Typhoid: A ghost of the past that never really went away     Ebola vaccine approved as second jab trialled     Typhoid vaccine over 81% effective in tackling disease in Nepal     Alice in Typhoidland: Join Lewis Carroll’s Alice on a journey through the story of typhoid, from Victorian sewer systems to cutting-edge scientific research     COVID-19 vaccine development     Oxford COVID-19 vaccine programme opens for clinical trial recruitment     Funding for new COVID-19 studies awarded to OVG's project on infectious disease immunity in children     Paediatrics project receives funding to assess novel coronavirus infection rates in children and teenagers across the UK     Oxford COVID-19 vaccine begins human trial stage     Landmark partnership announced for development of COVID-19 vaccine     Funding and manufacturing boost for UK vaccine programme     Oxford COVID-19 vaccine to begin phase II/III human trials     Alice in Typhoidland wins film trophy     AstraZeneca to supply Europe with up to 400 million doses of Oxford University’s vaccine at no profit     The Duke of Cambridge visits Oxford Vaccine Centre     Trial of Oxford COVID-19 vaccine starts in Brazil     Trial of Oxford COVID-19 vaccine in South Africa begins     Ebola vaccine approved for use by the European Commission     OVG study sheds light on coronavirus immunity in children     New study reveals Oxford coronavirus vaccine produces strong immune response     Typhoid vaccine project wins Vice-Chancellor award     There is now clear data on Covid-19 and children: it should be safe to reopen English schools     Coronavirus: the road to vaccine roll-out is always bumpy, as 20th-century pandemics show       Events     Conveniently facilitate web-enabled e-business and next-generation portals.
 Assertively conceptualize B2B results for wireless users.
 Competently maximize high-quality processes before value-added users.
