˜Environmental regulations, state-level portfolio standards, new methods for accessing 
natural gas reserves and aging power plants are opening opportunities for new electricity 
generation from renewable resources and natural gas. Advances in efficiency and smart grid 
technologies also have the potential to change historical demand curves. New renewable 
generation technology costs, including solar and wind, continue to fall, and installations are 
increasing. NREL works within these currents of change, and helps shape them to enhance our 
energy and environmental security. We help utilities, policymakers, investors, regulators, and 
industrial leaders around the world understand and navigate these currents. Our analysis, data 
sets, and tools illuminate choices and future impacts of choices on power system reliability, 
greenhouse gas emissions, economics, and energy security. Our work is redefining what™s 
possible for renewable energy on the grid and supporting the transition to power systems that 
are cleaner and more reliable than ever before.
ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEMS ARE PROFOUNDLY CHANGING
APRIL 2015
ANALYSIS INSIGHTS
Figure 1.
 Flexibility can help accommodate higher levels of variable renewable generation on the grid. Sources of additional system 
˜exibility can be organized around the three main domains of power marketsŠcapacity, energy, and ancillary servicesŠthat support 
balancing the electricity grid at multiple timescalesŠthrough regulation, load-following, daily/hourly scheduling, and planning.
 ˚Leveraging Our Expertise to 
 Inform International RE Roadmaps
Mexico is expanding renewable energy as a key strategy 
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from its electricity 
sector. One of the key challenges to meeting the renewable 
goalŠ35% renewable energy by 2024Šis integrating 
variable wind and solar resources into the existing grid. 
Through the U.S. government™s Enhancing Capacity for Low 
Emission Development Strategies (EC-LEDS) program, NREL 
is collaborating with Mexico™s ministry of energy, power 
system operators, research institutions, and policymakers 
to set and meet technically achievable annual renewable 
energy targets to support Mexico™s renewable energy goal. 
NREL and its Mexico partners developed the 
Renewable 
Electricity Grid Integration Road Map for Mexico
, which 
outlines technical priorities and recommendations for the 
integration of renewable energy technologies at large scale, 
and the steps energy institutions need to take to determine 
how the electricity infrastructure and systems must change 
to accommodate high levels of renewables. The roadmap 
focuses on analysis methodologiesŠincluding grid expansion 
modeling, resource characterization, forecasting, and grid 
operational practicesŠto evaluate the infrastructure and 
operational impacts of increasing levels of renewables. The 
roadmap gives policymakers a basis for assessing potential 
challenges, solutions, and economic impacts of increasing the 
level of variable RE penetration on the grid and gives system 
operators confidence that reliability concerns can be met.
Regional and National Grid 
Integration Studies Consistently 
Show Higher Levels of Renewables 
are Possible
Through groundbreaking modeling and analysis of the 
operational, economic, and environmental impacts of 
increasing renewables on the nation™s electricity grid, NREL 
has shown that a more flexible electric grid can achieve much 
higher levels of renewable penetration than we have today. 
Operational changes and improved transmission access can 
help increase overall flexibility of the power system. Flexibility 
helps balance the increased variability and uncertainty 
associated with wind and solar generation. Some physical 
solutions to accommodate increase power system flexibility 
are already underway. The institutional, legislative, and market 
options to increase flexibility are relatively more complex, but 
are essential to allow power systems to develop and integrate 
technology advances, new operating procedures, evolved 
business models, and new market rules.
CostSystem OperationMarketsResponsive LoadFlexible GenerationNetworksStorageFigure 2.
 Relative Economics of Integration Options. Today, 
storage is a relatively expensive integration option. Actual 
option costs are system-dependent and evolving over time.
 Adapted from: 
Flexibility in 21st Century Power Systems  
 http://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy14osti/61721.pdf
COMPUTING CENTER ENABLES FASTER,
 MORE DETAILED ANALYSIS 
Thanks to the High Performance Computing Center in 
the Energy Systems Integration Facility, DOE™s newest 
user facility at NREL, NREL is modeling the impacts of 
increased penetration of variable generation on grid 
system operations, emissions, and reliability in ways 
that are faster and more detailed than previously 
possible. The complex models supporting NREL™s 
Eastern Renewable Generation Integration Study now 
need just 3 days to run, down from 67. Learn more at 
www.nrel.gov/esi
. ˛APRIL 2015
ANALYSIS INSIGHTS
Operational Changes are Enhancing System Flexibility
Sub-hourly Scheduling and Dispatch
Grid integration studies show that sub-hourly scheduling and 
dispatch of generators (5- or 15-minute intervals) improves 
system efficiency, reduces the amount of reserves required 
to balance the system, and enables systems to integrate 
higher penetrations of variable renewable energy generation. 
Faster dispatch can enable the system to access reserves from 
existing units at little or no extra cost. It can also reduce the 
need for regulation reserves, which are the most expensive 
types of reserves, because there are fewer minute-to-minute 
deviations between load and generation when the system is 
re-dispatched frequently. For example, the 
Western Wind and 
Solar Integration Study
, indicates that sub-hourly scheduling 
is important for minimizing regulation requirements on the 
system. Scheduling resources every 5 or 15 minutes, rather 
than every hour, reduces the need to ramp units that provide 
load following. The study also found that wind and solar 
variability has a lesser impact on regulation requirements than 
hourly scheduling of generating units.
Expanded Balancing Footprint
Our studies have shown that increasing cooperation between 
balancing areas can reduce fluctuations in supply and demand 
and make it easier to maintain system balance. In addition, 
expanded balancing footprints can enhance the benefits of 
faster dispatch, reducing required regulation reserves and 
associated costs. The benefits of sub-hourly scheduling 
between balancing areas are greater with higher levels of 
variable renewable generation. Particularly where transmission 
constraints exist, faster scheduling across areas can allow 
variable generation to be more efficiently integrated through 
faster and coordinated dispatch with a neighboring market. 
Figure 3.
 NREL has found that increased dispatch frequency and shorter forecast horizons reduce the amount of required 
regulation reserves. Larger balancing areas enhance these bene˚ts, further reducing regulation reserve requirements.
For source data and analysis, see 
Flexibility Reserve Reductions from an Energy Imbalance Market with High Levels of Wind Energy in the Western
 Interconnection
 http://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy12osti/52330.pdf
 9000010000080000700006000050000
400003000020000100000Average Total Regulation (MW)SMALL28 balancing areas (BA)MEDIUM3 multi-BA regionsLARGE1 multi-regioninterconnect-wide footprintSpeed of Dispatch and Forecasts (Faster        ) ˝Advanced Variable Generation Forecasting
Improved forecasting is considered to be a key means of 
integrating wind and solar power efficiently and reliably. 
VG forecasts are more accurate the closer they are to real 
time, and many utilities have adopted practices that allow 
forecasts to be updated on a 5-minute basis. VG forecast 
costs are dropping and system operators are becoming 
more confident in the forecasts, according to a 2014 survey 
of system operators in the Western Interconnection. Other 
survey highlights include:
 Many system operators now regard VG forecasting as 
a cost effective mechanism for maintaining electric 
reliability and scheduling resources efficiently. Several 
said the system savings are so great and the cost minimal 
enough that formal cost-benefit analysis is not needed. 
 Nearly all system operators surveyedŠregardless of size, 
proportion of renewables, or average monthly loadŠuse 
their wind forecasts for day-ahead unit commitment. 
Intra-day unit commitment and reserves planning are the 
next most common uses. 
 Wind forecasting accuracy continues to improve thanks 
to advanced forecasting techniques and models, 
seasoned vendors, and growing portfolio size. Wind 
forecast errors typically range from 3% to 6% of rated 
capacity one hour ahead and 6% to 8% a day ahead on 
a regional basis. For comparison, load forecast errors 
typically range from 1% to 3% day-ahead.
1 Solar forecasting is still in its infancy, but several system 
operators have recently begun working on in-house solar 
forecasts and at least one company is beginning to track 
solar forecast accuracy.
 Increased Coal Plant Flexibility Can Improve Renewables Integration
Flexible Generation
Increasing wind and solar penetration also increases 
opportunity for savings associated with improved coal 
flexibility. Using a commercial production cost model, NREL 
estimated the impact of generator flexibility on the integration 
of wind and solar generators, at penetrations between 15% 
and 60%. Increased flexibility was simulated by reducing the 
minimum generation level of the coal fleet from 60% to 40% 
of nameplate capacity. Minimizing generation levels can allow 
plants to stay online during periods of low energy prices, such 
as at night, and minimize the need for and impacts of cycling. 
In the more flexible system, fuel costs and CO
2 emissions are 
lower, as are variable operations and maintenance costs. 
Coal plant flexibility can be increased through retrofits 
and operational practices that enable lower turndowns, 
faster starts and stops, and faster ramping between load 
set-points. One North American coal generating station 
accommodates significant cycling thanks to key hardware 
modifications and operational changesŠe.g. monitoring and 
managing temperature ramp rates, implementing inspection 
programs for affected equipment, and continual operator 
training. These changes have minimized potential damage 
and minimized the cycling-related cost of maintenance at 
the plant.
System-wide flexibility can be enhanced by retrofitting just 
a portion of conventional generators within a power system. 
NREL investigated the costs and benefits of retrofitting ~25% 
of coal and natural gas plant fleet capacity for improved 
operational flexibility. The study showed that retrofits that 
improve the turndown level of gas-fueled and coal-fueled 
power plants have a net-benefit to the system, although there 
may or may not be a benefit at plant level. Additional analysis 
could help determine the system-level costs and benefits of 
faster ramp rates and faster and less expensive starts.
1. 
 [Source: 
http://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy13osti/60451.pdf
 ]SHARING DATA, ADVANCING SCIENCE
Electric sector stakeholders use NREL™s high-resolution 
wind and solar datasets to model and plan for 
operating power systems with more variable resources. 
Learn More: 
http://maps.nrel.gov/wind_prospector
 http://www.nrel.gov/electricity/transmission/solar_
integration_methodology.html
 ˙APRIL 2015
ANALYSIS INSIGHTS
Flexible Load Œ Demand Response Resources
Demand response (DR) is a load management practice of 
deliberately reducing or adding load to balance the system 
during periods of peak demand or high market prices. 
DR resources represent a potentially large and relatively 
untapped resource for supplying flexibility to the grid 
systems. NREL is working with other national laboratories 
to estimate the economic value of DR resourcesŠincluding 
water heating, space heating and cooling, and water and 
wastewater pumpingŠfor the Western United States. The 
value is calculated in terms of reduced system production 
costs and potential revenue streams. Because some DR 
resources are more flexible or better correlated with system 
requirements, revenue from energy or grid services provided 
can vary significantly. 
Flexible Storage 
Electricity storage technologiesŠsuch as pumped hydro, 
batteries, flywheels, and compressed airŠhave had limited 
deployment in the U.S. power grid, but could potentially 
allow greater use of variable renewables by matching energy 
dispatch to periods of high demand, providing flexible load 
during periods of high RE output, and providing a variety of 
high-value ancillary services. One of the challenges faced 
by storage developers is quantifying the value of storage, 
particularly benefits that may not be fully captured within 
U.S. electricity markets. 
The operational value of storage is expected to increase with 
increasing penetration of variable wind and solar generation. 
For storage applications involving time-shifting of generation 
(i.e., load-leveling), variable generation tends to suppress 
off-peak prices more than on-peak prices, increasing price 
differentials for energy storage. Additional operating 
reserves required with higher levels of variable generation, 
also increase the potential value of storage when providing 
these reserves. Significant charging from renewables, and 
the associated net reduction in carbon emissions, does not 
occur until VG penetration is in the range of 40%-50%. Other 
sources of storage value, such as the ability to replace or defer 
generation, transmission, and distribution investments may 
also be impacted by the deployment of VG resources.
Figure 4.
 Value of Demand Response Resources for Energy and Grid Services. This chart shows the average annual revenue (left 
axis) from the day-ahead market per annual availability factor (right axis) for each type of demand response resource. Across all 
DR resources evaluated, 80% of revenue came from grid services, primarily from the regulation reserve market. Only 20% of the 
revenue came from the energy market.
 Source: DR Resources for Energy and Ancillary Services in the West 
75604530150100806040200ResidentialCommercialMunicipalNon-industrial ManufacturingRevenue per Enabled Capacity ($/kW-year)Availability Factor (%)FlexibilityContingencyRegulationEnergy Revenue Due to Relaxed ConstraintsEnergyAvailability FactorCoolingWater HeatingCoolingLightingVentilationHeatingMunicipalPumpingWastewaterPumpingOutdoorLightingRefridgeratedWarehouseAgriculturalPumpingData Center ˆWell-designed Wholesale Electricity Markets Support System Flexibility
Market design largely determines the operational mechanisms 
available to maintain long-term and short-term power system 
reliability. For systems with high levels of variable generation, 
well-designed electricity markets drive efficient solutions to 
meet reliability needs in a least-cost manner, and they can 
facilitate access to a range of options that increase system 
flexibility. Table 1 summarizes current and emerging market 
design approaches and best practices for incentivizing and 
accessing flexibility. In collaboration with the electric power 
community, NREL continues to lead analysis on best practices 
in market design. 
Table 1.
 Market Approaches and Best Practices for Incentivizing and Accessing Flexibility. 
 Ancillary Services Market
Energy Market
Capacity Adequacy Market
Dynamic system reserve requirements
, which vary by time of day and system 
conditions on an hourly basis, could 
better target high-risk periods of 
signi˚cant change in the wind resource 
and reduce integration costs. Market 
participants would plan ahead to 
understand what the ancillary services 
demand might be, similarly to how 
they anticipate the load demand. 
Co-optimization of energy and 
ancillary service markets
 has improved 
the e˛ciency of scheduling and 
dispatching resources. 
Primary frequency response
 is an autonomous generator response 
that stabilizes the system frequency. 
Explicit compensation for this service 
(which is typically provided by 
conventional generators as a part of 
interconnection) through cost-based 
measures or market designs could help 
ensure system reliability with high VG.
Dispatch resolution
 of 5- to 15-minutes 
improves system ˜exibility by more 
closely matching the changes in 
variable generation and load (net load) 
economically and reducing use of 
regulating reservesŠcost-e˝ectively 
optimizing generation. 
Integrating Advanced, Centralized 
Forecasts
 into market operations could 
increase market e˛ciency and provide 
additional opportunities for wind 
and solar resources to participate in 
electricity markets. 
More frequent (Intraday) markets
 could enable participation from power 
plants with intermediate lead/start-up 
times and help reduce the relatively 
high cost of balancing resources on 
the minutes timescale. The current 
two-step market with unit commitment 
in the day-ahead timescale leaves 
signi˚cant forecast errors to be 
resolved during real-time balancing. 
Flexible ramp products
 could help 
address operational needs in real-time 
by maintaining dispatchable ˜exibility 
in terms of ramping capability.
Scarcity pricing
 sends price signals 
in the real-time market when there is 
a system wide shortage of power to 
meet demand and provide su˛cient 
backup reserves. Scarcity pricing can 
be designed to encourage investments 
in ˜exible response, such as storage 
and price-responsive load, because 
these resources can respond quickly to 
brief periods of scarcity.
Capacity markets
 ensure that new 
generation is developed on time to 
meet resource adequacy targets and 
help these resources recover their 
capital costs. Capacity markets can 
help address concerns about declining 
wholesale electricity prices and ensure 
system ˜exibility with increased VG. 
Capabilities markets
 have been 
proposed as a mechanism to create 
investment incentives for the right mix 
of generation, demand-side resources, 
storage and other grid resources to 
deliver ˜exibility and other attributes 
necessary to cost-e˛ciently balance 
systems where there is an increasing 
proportion of renewable power. 
 2014 FIRST QUARTER
ANALYSIS INSIGHTS
APRIL 2015
ANALYSIS INSIGHTS
National Renewable Energy Laboratory
15013 Denver West Parkway, Golden, CO 80401
 303-275-ww.nrel.gov
NREL is a national laboratory of the U.S. Department of Energy, O˜ce of Energy E˜ciency 
and Renewable Energy, operated by the Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC
Front page photo by Warren Gretz, NREL 080-6A20-633615
NREL prints on paper that contains recycled content.
Moving Toward Cleaner, More Reliable, and More Resilient Power Systems 
NREL is leading a worldwide conversation about energy systems integration and spearheading innovations that optimize our 
entire energy system. Our energy analysis capabilities complement our science and technology work in this area. NREL works 
with utilities, policymakers, and investors to explore options and future impacts of today™s energy choicesŠon grid reliability, 
GHG emissions, economics, and energy security. See how NREL research and analysis are redefining what™s possible for 
renewable energy on the grid at 
http://youtu.be/XtV574KBEbU
.Learn More
National and Regional Grid Integration Studies
Western Wind and Solar Integration Study
 Phase 3
. (2014) Examined the large-scale stability and frequency 
response with high wind and solar penetration in the Western United 
States. 
http://www.nrel.gov/electricity/transmission/western_wind.html
  Phase 2
. (2013 ) Assessed impacts of cycling fossil-fueled power 
plants on emission and wear-and-tear costs. 
http://www.nrel.gov/
electricity/transmission/western_wind.html
  Phase 1
. (2010) Investigated integration of large amounts of wind 
and solar energy into the electric power system of the Western 
Interconnection. 
http://www.nrel.gov/electricity/transmission/
western_wind.html
Renewable Electricity Futures Study
 (2012) Explored implications and 
challenges of very high renewable electricity generation levelsŠfrom 
30% up to 90% of all U.S. electricity generationŠin 2050. 
http://www.
nrel.gov/analysis/re_futures/
 Eastern Wind Integration and Transmission Study
 (2010) Examined 
the operational impact of 20%Œ30% wind energy penetration on the 
power system of the Eastern Interconnect of the United States. 
http://
www.nrel.gov/electricity/transmission/eastern_renewable.html#ewits
 20% Wind Energy by 2030: Increasing Wind Energy™s Contribution 
to U.S. Electricity Supply
 (2008) Examined costs, challenges, and key 
impacts of generating 20% of the nation™s electricity from wind energy 
in 2030. 
http://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy08osti/41869.pdf
 System Flexibility
A Review of Variable Generation Forecasting in the West: July 2013 Œ 
March 2014
 (2014) Industry survey on VG forecasting practices, lessons 
learned, and priorities. 
http://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy14osti/61035.pdf
 Integrating Variable Renewable Energy: Challenges and Solutions
 (2013) Explored renewable energy integration mitigation strategies 
that have been implemented in the United States and internationally. 
http://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy13osti/60451.pdf
Resource Flexibility
Impact of Generator Flexibility on Electric System Costs and 
Integration of Renewable Energy
 (2014) Estimated the impact of 
generator flexibility on the integration of wind and solar generators for 
wind and solar penetrations between 15% and 60%. 
http://www.nrel.
gov/docs/fy14osti/62275.pdf
Flexible Coal: Evolution from Baseload to Peaking Plant
 (2013) 
21st Century Power Partnership. Looked at a coal plant that cost-
effectively operates as a flexible resource. 
http://www.nrel.gov/docs/
fy14osti/60575.pdf
Cost-Benefit Analysis of Flexibility Retrofits for Coal and Gas-Fueled 
Power Plants: August 2012 Œ December 2013
 (2014) Studied the 
costs and benefits of retrofitting fossil units for improved operational 
flexibility. 
http://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy14osti/60862.pdf
 Value of Demand Response: Quantities from Production Cost 
Modeling (Presentation)
 (2014) Discussed the value of co-optimized 
DR resources to provide energy and ancillary services. 
http://www.nrel.
gov/docs/fy14osti/61815.pdf
 Impact of Wind and Solar on the Value of Energy Storage
 (2013) 
Evaluated how the value of energy storage changes when adding 
variable renewable generation to the grid. 
http://www.nrel.gov/docs/
fy14osti/60568.pdf
Market Design
Evolution of Wholesale Electricity Market Design with Increasing 
Levels of Renewable Generation
 (2014) Reviewed market design 
approaches focused on revenue sufficiency for long-term reliability. 
http://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy14osti/61765.pdf
Integrating Variable Renewable Energy in Electric Power Markets: Best 
Practices from International Experience
 (2012) Documented diverse 
approaches to effective integration of variable renewable energy among 
six countries. 
http://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy12osti/53732.pdf
Market Evolution: Wholesale Electricity Market Design for 21st 
Century Power Systems
 (2013) Reviewed wholesale power market 
designs that help ensure adequacy, security, and flexibility. 
http://www.
nrel.gov/docs/fy14osti/57477.pdf
