Skip to Main Content            POLITICO              Magazine  The Agenda  Pro   Search    Search                SECTIONS   Congress  White House  Magazine  The Agenda  Video  Podcasts     2020 Elections   News  All Election Results  Presidential Results  Senate Results  House Results  Governor Results  Key Ballot Measures  Tracking Threats to the Election     NEWSLETTERS   Playbook  Playbook PM  POLITICO Nightly  Transition Playbook  Huddle  All Newsletters    SERIES   The Fifty  The Vaccine Race  What Works  Women Rule     POLITICO LIVE   Live Home  Upcoming Events  Previous Events  About POLITICO Live    COLUMNS &amp; CARTOONS   Rich Lowry  Jack Shafer  Matt Wuerker  Cartoon Carousel     POLICY   Agriculture  Cannabis  Cybersecurity  Defense  Education  eHealth  Employment &amp; Immigration  Energy &amp; Environment  Finance &amp; Tax  Health Care  Space  Sustainability  Technology  Trade  Transportation     EDITIONS   California  Canada  Europe  Florida  New Jersey  New York  Pro     Follow us   Twitter  Instagram  Facebook      My Account  Log InLog Out                                  Facebook      Twitter        Print     Continue to article content                                  Sonia Sotomayor was one of several figures to appear at Clinton's book signing.
 Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor, who said she was “just shopping” and wandered by in sandals, a striped shirt and pants, grabbed a book.
 Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.), the legendary civil rights-era figure who helped call time of death on Clinton’s campaign when he switched his endorsement from her to Barack Obama in February 2008, showed up and shared a moment with her.
 Jim Sinegal, the Costco co-founder and a major Democratic donor, also came by.
 So did her niece and nephew, the children of her brother Tony Rodham, standing next to her at a large desk adorned with a “Costco Wholesale” banner for the nearby reporters, who were set up at the Pentagon City outlet of the giant bulk-sale retailer.
 So did people who’d volunteered for her in Iowa during the 2008 presidential campaign.
 One man handed her a resume, hoping his girlfriend could get a job working for her.
 ( Also on POLITICO: Clinton's hardest words: I was wrong)   For three hours and 20 minutes, Clinton, whose book tour is seen as a prelude to an all-but-certain 2016 presidential bid, sat in an enclosure created by stacks of bottled water and jumbo-sized paper towels, and engaged in the ritual that she and her aides and her publisher have gotten down to a precise science.
 One aide would take a book, and hand it to another aide; that aide would open it to the signature page, and hand it to Clinton, who would hand it to a third aide, who would hand it to yet another aide, who would hand it to the purchaser as they departed.
 This was Clinton’s fourth store signing since her book went on sale on June 10, and her events have attracted as many men as women, and people from a wide range of age groups.
 Sotomayor’s arrival, which came well after most photographers and TV cameras had departed, was the only truly unexpected moment.
 She came in through the point of departure from the signing area, telling Clinton aides she had happened to be in the store and heard about the signing.
 ( PHOTOS: Hillary Clinton starts her book tour)   “I don’t believe this!” Clinton exclaimed loudly, standing up as Sotomayor approached.
 “I’m so glad to see you!”   Sotomayor took a copy of Clinton’s book — on sale to Costco members for $18.99 — and stood shaking the former secretary of state’s hand.
 She said she planned to read the book, and Clinton replied, “Well, you better!
 I loved yours.”   Sotomayor told reporters she was “just shopping” as she walked out.
 The other sighting was Lewis, who stood at the desk holding Clinton’s hands for several minutes, introducing her to two men he’d brought with him.
 Reporters asked Lewis if Clinton should run as he left.
 “Yes, she should,” he said.
 Why was he there?
 “I come to this store and shop, and I wanted to come by and say hello to Mrs. Clinton, she’s a very good friend,” said Lewis.
 ( Also on POLITICO: Anatomy of a Clinton book tour stop)   Clinton’s past signings have been in New York City, Chicago and Philadelphia, Democratic-leaning enclaves but not ones with the same concentration of military and government officials, Washington elites and Virginia denizens as the Pentagon City outlet.
 She’d visited that same Costco in 2003, to promote her first memoir, “Living History.” Some of the same staffers working at the store then were involved in making the snaking line of customers move this time.
 On Saturday, Clinton signed more than 1,200 books, officials said.
 By the time she finished, 164 people had bought $55-per-head Costco memberships, more than five times what the store would normally do on a Saturday, officials said.
 Several people in the line, which started forming many hours before the 11 a.m. signing, said they joined the store just to meet Clinton.
 Bryan Mendiola was among the first people to see her.
 He took a resume from a yellow folder and handed it to her.
 She nodded and passed it along to an aide.
 Mendiola told reporters it was for his girlfriend.
 Greg Hogben went to the front of the line wearing a T-shirt reading “Hot for Hillary,” with her photo on it.
 She laughed, telling him, “That’s very funny.”   ( Also on POLITICO: Clinton: 'Liberating' to speak my mind)   Clinton began the day by coming around from the desk to talk personally to a severely disabled man in a wheelchair.
 She personalized some books, despite a strict edict against doing that at her event at a New York City Barnes and Noble the day “Hard Choices” came out.
 People who had worked for her in the past came by, most of them declining to give their names.
 One woman said she was a fellow Wellesley graduate, prompting a cheer from Clinton, “I love it!”   She posed for pictures, including “selfies” some in the crowd took.
 She chatted up an eight-year-old who was accompanying a woman who said she had worked for Clinton before.
 Several people waiting online mentioned to each other the prospect of 2016.
 “Hi Hillary, I worked on your campaign in 2007,” said one woman, who added she had been based in Iowa.
 “I love it!” Clinton replied.
 “Here, shake my hand!”   “2016!
 We’re ready for ya!” said one woman as she walked away from the table with a book in her hand.
 When she finished, she posed for photos with Costco staffers, volunteers who’d worked on the event and staffers from her publisher, Simon &amp; Schuster.
 Clinton has had a series of media interviews, but has not done a gaggle with the group of reporters that routinely follow her to most events.
 “Time for a question?” one reporter called out as she got up to leave the desk.
 Clinton kept walking.
 Correction: An earlier version of this story misstated the first name of Costco’s co-founder.
 This article tagged under:   Hillary Clinton  Books  Sonia Sotomayor  John Lewis  Costco        Missing out on the latest scoops?
 Sign up for POLITICO Playbook and get the latest news, every morning — in your inbox.
