Your commitment and dedication to Planned Parenthood of Southern New England has paved the 
way for us to become one of the region™s largest providers of family planning and reproductive 
health care services. Since 1923, you have helped us grow into an organization with 18 health 
centers in Connecticut and Rhode Island, delivering care to nearly 70,000 patients each year. 
Your support has allowed PPSNE to be fearless and to embark on exciting new ventures that have 
proven bene˜cial to our organization and especially to our community.
We have accomplished so much together and this update 
is ˜lled with examples of the incredible work that you have 
helped make possible over the past year. We hope that you 
will enjoy a few moments of re˚ection about the very real 
ways that your support of Planned Parenthood of Southern 
New England is making a difference in the lives of women and 
families across Connecticut and Rhode Island.
As the Affordable Care Act (ACA) was implemented nationwide 
last fall, we dedicated ourselves to helping individuals secure 
health insurance. We reached thousands of people through 
our efforts, educating them not only about the new health 
care bene˜ts available to them but also about how they could 
become advocates for their own health and the health of their communities.We were thrilled to move two of our health centers to  beautiful new locations in Manchester and En˜eld, CT, last 
year. One patient shared upon entering the new Manchester Health Center: ﬁWOW! You guys deserve an amazing 
place like this for all the hard work you do! I love it!ﬂ Because of the generous support, we are now able to provide 
top-quality health care in a beautiful space that is designed speci˜cally to meet the needs of our patients. 
We are continuing to engage the next generation of leaders to renew and reshape our movement. In the past year, 
we signi˜cantly expanded our STARS teen peer educator program by adding a group in Bridgeport, CT; and this 
addition helped grow the number of STARS by 43% from 47 to 67. 
On behalf of everyone at PPSNE, thank you for your dedication to this organization, for your continuous generosity, 
and for your partnership in our vital work.Planned Parenthood of Southern New England, Inc.
ppsne.orgHEALTH CARE PLANNED PARENTHOOD IS THOUGHTFUL, CARING
GETTING TO KNOW
PLANNED PARENTHOOD
A MESSAGE FROM OUR PRESIDENT AND OUR BOARD CHAIR 
Judy Tabar (center) stands with Amelia Renkert-Thomas (right) 
and Sarah Weddington, Attorney for Roe v. Wade Supreme 
Court Case at the 2014 Annual Spring Luncheon in  Stamford, Conn.As part of the Centers for Disease Control Teen 
Pregnancy Prevention Initiative in the City of 
Hartford (HTTPI), PPSNE trained 23 youth-serving 
professionals through an evidence-based curriculum 
aimed at reducing the rates of HIV, STIs and teen 
pregnancies. The professionals received 148 hours of 
training and technical assistance. They came from the 
following community-based organizations: Family Life, 
Maternal Infant Outreach Program, Blue Hills Civic, 
Hartford Public School (HPS) Nursing Academy, HPS 
Law & Governance Academy and the HPS Academy 
of Engineering and Green Technology. Through the 
curriculum, the trainees reached 382 youth.
Since the inception of the Connecticut 
Medicaid Family Planning Expansion, 
PPSNE has completed applications for 
9,320 patients. Many of these patients got 
their services covered because they were 
eligible for full-bene˜t or Medicaid. This 
is exciting news for our work to address 
racial and ethnic health disparities.In June 2015, PPSNE will celebrate the past, acknowledge the present and look to the future when we 
commemorate the 50th Anniversary of Griswold v. Connecticut
. In 1965, the leaders of (then) Planned Parenthood 
League of Connecticut put their lives on the line to provide the community with what was considered ﬁillegal 
contraceptionﬂ and were arrested. Although the Connecticut court upheld the conviction, Estelle Griswold, the 
executive director of Planned Parenthood League of Connecticut, and C. Lee Buxton, doctor and professor at 
Yale Medical School appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, which reviewed and decided the case in 1965. This 
ground-breaking decision set a precedent and contributed to the success of 
Roe v. Wade
.This success will not be forgotten. Remembering how we won that ˜ght empowers PPSNE to continue the ˜ght with hope and high expectations. Fifty years later, women are still ˜ghting for birth control, and it is exciting to 
see our young people taking on this ˜ght. Stay tuned for events next spring celebrating this critical decision.This past winter, we of˜cially launched primary care services 
at four of our PPSNE centers: New London, Waterbury, 
Meriden and Providence. Through the end of March and, 
since that time, we have seen 110 primary care visits at 
these centers. Visits included work physicals, treatment of 
upper respiratory infections, seasonal allergies, ear pain, 
sinus infections, acute bronchitis and sore throats. We 
continue to explore other services we might add over time.
Judy Tabar
 President and CEOAmelia Renkert-Thomas Board ChairYour generosity allows our education and training team to continue to provide educational opportunities 
to youth, professionals, parents and community-based organizations. Our comprehensive sex education 
and training programs reduce racial and ethnic health disparities in Connecticut and Rhode Island while 
promoting the importance of knowledge about sexual health.
EDUCATION & TRAINING PLANNED PARENTHOOD IS FORWARD-THINKING, IMAGINATIVE, OPEN-MINDED
382
 YOUTH 
REACHED
In November, Teen Clinic expanded to our New London Health Center. 
This brings the number of Teen Clinic locations to four: New London, New 
Haven, Hartford and Bridgeport. At the monthly Teen Clinic program, 
teens can receive free preventive care and sexuality education in a 
teens-only environment. Overall, there were 110 health center visits. Our 
teen peer educators (STARS) planned and coordinated the program in 
partnership with health center staff.
TEENS ONLY
6,881
 EDUCATED
INDIVIDUALS
Last year, 6,881 individuals participated in a 
PPSNE education session. Of those, 2,544 
attended a multi-session program.
PROFESSIONALS
IN ATTENDANCE
714
PPSNE facilitated 
47 professional 
development 
trainings on 
reproductive 
health and human 
sexuality and 
evidence-based 
programs. In total, 
715 youth-serving 
professionals 
attended the 
trainings.ADVOCACY PLANNED PARENTHOOD IS BOLD, FEARLESS, DRIVEN
Because of champions like you, our public policy and advocacy team can con˜dently ˜ght 
to ensure every individual knows their health care rights and has access to the services, 
education and information to help them realize those rights.
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
FROM OUR DONORSLOOKING AHEADAlong with Planned Parenthood, the Affordable 
Care Act (ACA) had a major impact on the lives 
of millions of Americans beginning in 2013. PPSNE partnered closely with Access Health 
CT, Connecticut™s state exchange. We kicked-off 
our education and outreach efforts by  educating 
the public at community events such as town parades, concerts and rallies as well as holding educational events in our health centers and communities.With signi˜cant funding from both Planned 
Parenthood Federation of America (PPFA) and 
the Connecticut Health Foundation, PPSNE hired 
two ACA Enrollment Specialists who reached 
out to PPSNE patients by phone, invited them to enrollment events at our health centers, and 
helped them navigate the complicated web-
based application process. 
Members of the public policy and advocacy team also became ﬁcerti˜ed application counselorsﬂ and canvassed neighborhoods door-to-door, in 
order to spread the word about the ACA.
Sponsored 
20 PPSNE health center enrollment 
events in two monthsŠof 90 attendees, 59 enrolled in 
coverage.Attended ˜ve community events (sponsored by 
others). Staff 
assisted in enrolling 
84 attendees,  and 52 enrolled. 
Conducted patient-focused outreach and 
education, including more than 
3,700 phone calls, which led to 1,015 conversations.Organized campus outreach 
efforts, which 
included 75 conversations, identifying 38 new advocates.Held 115 conversations in waiting rooms, during 
which our Health Center Advocacy volunteers identi˜ed 90 new advocates.EVENTS
IN 2 MONTHS
 COMMUNITY
    EVENTS
CONVERSATIONS
ADVOCATES
WAITING ROOM
CONVERSATIONS
NEW
 A major focus of our work this year has been to introduce advocacy opportunities for patients in the waiting 
areas of PPSNE health centers. The Health Center Advocacy Program (HCAP) has engaged 15 volunteers/
interns who primarily promote the ACA, collecting nearly 700 supporter 
signatures during more than 800 conversations in our waiting rooms across 
both states. 
Our RI HCAP project has resulted in the collection of more than  400 
ﬁObamacare Worksﬂ cards and 87 ﬁI Stand with Planned Parenthoodﬂ cards 
from our patients. We collected more than 100 personal stories from our 
patients that often focused on their experiences receiving health services at 
Planned Parenthood, as well as their access to health insurance, lack of it, 
and the importance of gaining coverage.
ISTAND
WITHPLANNEDPARENTHOOD
®BOLD & NEW PLANNED PARENTHOOD IS BRAVE, INNOVATIVE
PPSNE moved two health centers into new locations this ˜scal year in Manchester and En˜eld, CT. Manchester opened its doors 
to patients on October 14, 2013, at 319 Main Street; En˜eld 
opened its doors on March 24, 2014, at 111 Hazard Avenue. 
These new locations offer convenient free parking as well as 
walk-in and same-day appointments. PPSNE will continue to extend the same high-quality, affordable reproductive health care 
it provides to all of its patients in these new locations.
In May 2014, PPSNE launched a new marketing campaign, ﬁFacts,ﬂ 
developed in partnership with Planned Parenthood of Minnesota, North 
Dakota, South Dakoka and Tait Subler, a strategic consultancy ˜rm, 
in order to better differentiate Planned Parenthood as a health care 
provider. The Facts Campaign highlights the number of times Planned 
Parenthood provided particular services across the country and then 
encourages readers to ﬁGet to Know Planned Parenthood; Where Your 
Voice Gets Stronger by the Numbers.ﬂ 
This comprehensive branding 
campaign includes radio advertising, digital and vinyl billboards, metro bus 
signage, bus shelter signage, building signage, banners, social media, and 
online advertising on sites such as Pandora and Google.Manchester, CT
Providence, RI
I believe that good contraceptive services are essential 
to women™s rights, 
and Planned Parenthood is a 
very important voice in keeping those services available to all women.Julia HolcombLeesburg, VA
As the mother of three daughters, I 
am very concerned 
about women™s 
rights and appreciate 
the role Planned 
Parenthood plays 
in trying to preserve 
these rights.Judith Crowley
Burlington, CTI have been very impressed by 
the services provided at Planned 
Parenthood. I™ve been there for 
gynecological services, birth control, and for the pregnancy test 
that con˜rmed that I was expecting. My daughter is now 14 and I want to make sure that Planned 
Parenthood™s services are there for 
her when she needs them.Stacy CutlerEssex, CT