Skip to content       Legislative Action Center FRAC Chat Subscribe to eNews Give to FRAC  Menu           Research &amp; Data   Research &amp; Data Resource Library Interactive Data Tools Best Practices Mapping Tools   Call To Action HTML   In The Spotlight Afterschool Suppers: A Snapshot of Participation Check out our new report which analyzes participation in Afterschool nutrition programs and how programs can adjust to COVID-19.
 Read more here       Action   Action SNAP/Farm Bill P-EBT Budget, Appropriations &amp; Anti-Poverty Policy Child Nutrition Reauthorization (CNR) Regulatory Action Bills We’re Supporting Inside Congress Engage With Your Members   Call To Action HTML   Legislative Contacts Ellen Teller Director of Government Affairs eteller@frac.org Contact Ellen       Programs   Programs Pandemic EBT Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) School Breakfast Program National School Lunch Program Community Eligibility Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP) Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) Afterschool Nutrition Programs Summer Nutrition Programs Nutrition Standards   Call To Action HTML   In The Spotlight COVID-19 Updates Check this page for updates on efforts to mitigate the impacts of COVID-19 (coronavirus) on the health, well-being and food security of low-income people.
 Read more here       Newsroom   Newsroom News Releases Meet Our Experts FRAC in the News Image Gallery Find Data On Your State Explore Our Research   Call To Action HTML   Media Contact Jordan Baker jbaker@frac.org (202) 640-1118 Contact Jordan       About Us   About Us Board of Directors What We Do Our History FRAC Supporters Alliances and Partners Jobs and Internships Campaign to End Childhood Hunger Support Us Staff Our State Partners   Call To Action HTML   In The Spotlight COVID-19 Updates Check this page for updates on efforts to mitigate the impacts of COVID-19 (coronavirus) on the health, well-being and food security of low-income people.
 Read more here       Hunger &amp; Poverty   Hunger &amp; Poverty Hunger Among Older Adults Rural Hunger What Every Candidate Should Know About Hunger Hunger Among Immigrants      Obesity &amp; Health   Obesity &amp; Health Hunger &amp; Obesity Hunger &amp; Health Screen &amp; Intervene Addressing Food Insecurity: A Toolkit for Pediatricians      Search    Search For:     Call To Action HTML  Explore Our Resource Library Advanced search and filtering of our media, data, &amp; resources            Search For:         Research &amp; Data   Research &amp; Data Resource Library Interactive Data Tools Best Practices Mapping Tools   Call To Action HTML   In The Spotlight Afterschool Suppers: A Snapshot of Participation Check out our new report which analyzes participation in Afterschool nutrition programs and how programs can adjust to COVID-19.
 Read more here       Action   Action SNAP/Farm Bill P-EBT Budget, Appropriations &amp; Anti-Poverty Policy Child Nutrition Reauthorization (CNR) Regulatory Action Bills We’re Supporting Inside Congress Engage With Your Members   Call To Action HTML   Legislative Contacts Ellen Teller Director of Government Affairs eteller@frac.org Contact Ellen       Programs   Programs Pandemic EBT Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) School Breakfast Program National School Lunch Program Community Eligibility Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP) Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) Afterschool Nutrition Programs Summer Nutrition Programs Nutrition Standards   Call To Action HTML   In The Spotlight COVID-19 Updates Check this page for updates on efforts to mitigate the impacts of COVID-19 (coronavirus) on the health, well-being and food security of low-income people.
 Read more here       Press Room   Press Room News Releases Meet Our Experts FRAC in the News Image Gallery Find Data On Your State Explore Our Research   Call To Action HTML   Media Contact Jordan Baker jbaker@frac.org (202) 640-1118 Contact Jordan       About Us   About Us Board of Directors What We Do Our History FRAC Supporters Alliances and Partners Jobs and Internships Campaign to End Childhood Hunger Support Us Staff Our State Partners   Call To Action HTML   In The Spotlight COVID-19 Updates Check this page for updates on efforts to mitigate the impacts of COVID-19 (coronavirus) on the health, well-being and food security of low-income people.
 Read more here      Hunger in America Obesity &amp; Health  Search        Call To Action HTML  Explore Our Resource Library Advanced search and filtering of our media, data, &amp; resources          Legislative Action Center FRAC Chat Subscribe to eNews Give to FRAC          News               Home &gt; Press Room &gt; News &gt; Food Research &amp; Action Center Commends the House for Passing the Families First Coronavirus Response Act        Food Research &amp; Action Center Commends the House for Passing the Families First Coronavirus Response Act  Media Contact: Emily Pickren epickren@frac.org 202-640-1118 Statement attributed to Luis Guardia, president, Food Research &amp; Action Center (FRAC) WASHINGTON, March 14, 2020 — The Food Research &amp; Action Center (FRAC) supports the Families First Coronavirus Response Act, H.R.
 6201.
 FRAC commends the House for taking swift and thoughtful action to help people put food on the table and stay safe during the COVID-19 emergency.
 The bill, which passed with strong bipartisan support, also provides paid leave to some workers, additional funding for unemployment insurance, and establishes free testing for COVID-19.
 This bill is an important down payment for addressing the public health and economic challenges that COVID-19 presents, and for promoting food security for low-income and vulnerable people.
 Congress recognizes that federal nutrition programs serve a critical role in addressing hunger and food insecurity during times of crisis.
 The bill gives the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) authority to approve state plans to provide an electronic benefits transfer (EBT) card to purchase food to households with children receiving free or reduced-price school meals in the event of school closures.
 The bill allows states to request waivers from USDA to provide temporary, emergency Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits to SNAP households up to the maximum monthly benefit amount, and suspends time limits on SNAP eligibility for unemployed and underemployed individuals.
 With this bill, USDA will have additional authority to issue waivers to support access to the child nutrition programs, including issuing nationwide waivers which would reduce paperwork for states and help more schools, local government agencies, and community organizations quickly adapt and provide meals, waivers that can increase programmatic costs, and waivers to adapt meal pattern requirements in response to disruptions to the food supply.
 In addition, USDA also will have the authority to allow child and adult care centers to operate as non-congregate sites.
 In addition, the Families First Coronavirus Response Act provides $500 million for the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women Infants and Children (WIC) to provide access to nutritious foods to low-income pregnant women or mothers with young children who lose their jobs or are laid off due to the COVID-19.
 The Act includes $250 million for increases in meals provided by senior nutrition programs housed in the Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Community Living.
 Food banks and emergency food providers will also receive much-needed commodity support.
 In this time of uncertainty, the House has done the right thing by passing this bill, which takes significant steps to make sure that hunger does not increase as our nation responds to COVID-19.
 USDA also should exercise all of its existing authority to leverage the resources of the federal safety net as broadly as possible to address COVID-19 challenges.
 ### For 50 years, the Food Research &amp; Action Center has been the leading national nonprofit organization working to eradicate poverty-related hunger and undernutrition in the United States.
 Follow us on Twitter and Facebook.
 President-Elect Biden and the new administration will confront many challenges as the long-term public health and economic fallout of COVID-19 continues to unfold.
 Even prior to the pandemic, millions of people in every corner of the country struggled to put food on the table.
 And COVID-19 has only deepened our nation’s hunger crisis.
 Oct 20, 2020  New Report Finds More Students Participating in Afterschool Suppers, but More Investments Needed to Combat the Impact of COVID-19 on Childhood Hunger WASHINGTON, October 20, 2020 — As states move into phases of reopening and recovery, reaching more children with afterschool suppers and snacks will be critical to addressing exacerbated childhood hunger caused by COVID-19.
 According to the Afterschool Suppers: A Snapshot of Participation report released today by the Food Research &amp; Action Center (FRAC), more than 1.4 million low-income children benefited from Afterschool Nutrition Programs on an average day in October 2019, with participation in afterschool suppers increasing by more than 86,900 from the prior year.
 Oct 09, 2020  FRAC Commends USDA Decision to Extend Child Nutrition Waivers through 2020-2021 School Year WASHINGTON, October 9, 2020 — The Food Research &amp; Action Center (FRAC) commends the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) for its decision to extend the waivers which allow for the continued operation of the Summer Nutrition Programs, along with other critical child nutrition waivers, through June 30, 2021.
 This extension will ensure schools and private nonprofit organizations have the consistency and time needed in order to effectively plan and implement meal service for millions of children across the country who rely on free and reduced-price school meals.
 All Blogs               	1200 18th Street NW, Suite 400 	Washington, D.C. 20036 202.986.2200 202.986.2525   Contact Us Locate Us  Careers at FRAC   Research &amp; Data Action Federal Nutrition Programs Newsroom About Us FRAC Chat (Blog) Hunger &amp; Poverty in America Obesity &amp; Health     Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram   Subscribe to our eNews Stay up-to-date on research and resources Subscribe to FRAC Chat    Our Initiatives  D.C.
 Hunger Solutions Maryland Hunger Solutions     © 2020 Food Research &amp; Action Center.
