Email.
 Open Search...             Search KFF.org                 Twitter               Facebook               Instagram               Email            Election 2020 Open Enrollment U.S. Coronavirus Cases (11/5): 9.607 million         					Medicaid				     								Search							    								Graphics &amp; Interactives							    								Polls							      HomeMedicaidWhat is Medicaid’s Impact on Access to Care, Health Outcomes, and Quality of Care?…      What is Medicaid's Impact on Access to Care, Health Outcomes, and Quality of Care?
 Setting the Record Straight on the Evidence   					Julia Paradise				and 							 					Rachel Garfield Follow @RachelLGarfield on Twitter   Published: Aug 02, 2013   Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print      							Introduction						    							Issue Brief						   Endnotes    Medicaid, the nation’s main public health insurance program for low-income people, now covers over 65 million Americans – more than 1 in every 5 – at least some time during the year.
 The program’s beneficiaries include many of the most disadvantaged individuals and families in the U.S. in terms of poverty, poor health, and disability.
 The Affordable Care Act (ACA) provided for a broad expansion of Medicaid to cover millions of low-income uninsured adults whom the program has historically excluded.
 However, as a result of the Supreme Court’s decision on the ACA, the Medicaid expansion is, in effect, a state option.
 Almost half the states are moving forward with the Medicaid expansion.
 But the others, which are home to half the uninsured adults who could gain Medicaid coverage under the ACA, have decided not to expand Medicaid at this time or are still debating the issue.
 Controversy about the Medicaid expansion has been stoked by an assertion that first appeared in a Wall Street Journal editorial a couple of years ago and has since resurfaced periodically, that “Medicaid is worse than no coverage at all.”1 2 3 4 5 6 This claim about Medicaid is sharply at odds with the authoritative findings of the Institute of Medicine (IOM) Committee on Consequences of Uninsurance, detailed in Care Without Coverage: Too Little, Too Late, the second of six reports the IOM issued on the subject in the early 2000’s.7 Based on a comprehensive review of the research examining the impact of health insurance on adults, the IOM charted the causal pathway from coverage to better health outcomes, concluding: Health insurance coverage is associated with better health outcomes for adults.
 It is also associated with having a regular source of care and with greater and more appropriate use of health services.
 These factors, in turn, improve the likelihood of disease screening and early detection, the management of chronic illness, and effective treatment of acute conditions such as traumatic brain injury and heart attacks.
 The ultimate result is improved health outcomes.
 In light of Medicaid’s large and growing coverage role, and the significant health care needs of its beneficiaries, an evidence-based assessment of the program’s impact on access to care, health outcomes, and quality of care is of major interest.
 Such an assessment would also be helpful given perennial concerns about insufficient physician participation in Medicaid, generally attributed to low fees paid by state Medicaid programs.
 Since Medicaid was established nearly 45 years ago, a large body of research on and analysis of the program has accumulated.
 After first reviewing the purpose of health insurance and the distinctive profile of the Medicaid population – both considerations that lend important context to the research findings – this brief takes a look at what the literature shows overall regarding the difference Medicaid makes.
 Issue Brief     Topics  Medicaid Health Reform Uninsured    Tags  Affordable Care Act Coverage Low income Access to Care Quality Measures Affordability Children                															DOWNLOAD									     					Issue Brief				       															Also of Interest									     						Quality of Care in Community Health Centers and Factors Associated with Performance					    						What Difference Does Medicaid Make?
 Assessing Cost Effectiveness, Access, and Financial Protection under Medicaid for Low-Income Adults					    						Medicaid: A Primer – Key Information on the Nation’s Health Coverage Program for Low-Income People					            					Get The Latest On Health Policy				  					Sign Up For Email Alerts				     							Sign Up						      				Follow KFF			    Twitter     Facebook     Instagram     Email Alerts     Feeds     Topics  Coronavirus (COVID-19) Global Health Policy Health Costs Health Reform HIV/AIDS Medicaid Medicare Private Insurance Racial Equity and Health Policy Uninsured Women’s Health Policy   Sections  Polling Perspectives State Health Facts Graphics &amp; Interactives Charts &amp; Slides Kaiser Health News Social Impact Media Peterson-KFF Health System Tracker   Newsroom  News Releases Events Subscribe to Emails Cite Us/Reprint Media Contacts   About Us  President’s Message Our Programs Support Our Work Key Staff Media Fellowships Barbara Jordan Conference Center Contact Us Employment Opportunities Privacy Policy         				© 2020 Kaiser Family Foundation			  				Powered by WordPress.com VIP            							Citations and Reprints						    							Privacy Policy						        		The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation Headquarters: 185 Berry St., Suite 2000, San Francisco, CA 94107 | Phone 650-854-9400		 		Washington Offices and Barbara Jordan Conference Center: 1330 G Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005 | Phone 202-347-5270	 www.kff.org | Email Alerts: kff.org/email | facebook.com/KaiserFamilyFoundation | twitter.com/kff  Filling the need for trusted information on national health issues, the Kaiser Family Foundation is a nonprofit organization based in San Francisco, California.
