Your source for the latest research news      Follow Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Subscribe RSS Feeds Newsletters    New:   Baby Dinosaurs Were 'Little Adults' Half of Sun-Like Stars Could Host Rocky Planets Early Big-Game Hunters Were Likely Female Positive Outlook Predicts Less Memory Decline Touch and Taste?
 It's All in the Tentacles Where Were Jupiter and Saturn Born?
 Science News from research organizations     1 2  Deadly drugged driving: Drug use tied to fatal car crashes  Date: June 23, 2011 Source: Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs Summary: It's well known that drunk driving can have fatal consequences, but a new study suggests that alcohol is not the only drug that's a danger on the road.
 Researchers found that of US drivers who died in a crash, about 25 percent tested positive for drugs.
 The most common drugs were marijuana and stimulants, including cocaine and amphetamines.
 Share:               FULL STORY     It's well known that drunk driving can have fatal consequences, but a new study suggests that alcohol is not the only drug that's a danger on the road.
 But few studies have actually looked specifically at the impact of other drugs on traffic deaths -- even as there is an increasing push to pass "drugged driving" laws nationally.
 In the new study, reported in the July issue of the Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs, researchers found that of U.S. drivers who died in a crash, about 25% tested positive for drugs.
 The most common drugs were marijuana and stimulants, including cocaine and amphetamines, which each accounted for almost one quarter of the positive tests.
 It's not clear whether the drugs were to blame for the crashes, the researchers say.
 Some people who use illegal drugs may simply be reckless drivers in general, for instance.
 On the other hand, a recent government study found that of U.S. drivers who were randomly pulled over, 14% tested positive for drugs.
 The fact that drug use was almost twice as high among drivers in fatal crashes suggests that drugs do contribute to road deaths.
 "The suspicion is there, because when you look at drivers who've been in fatal crashes, the percentage using drugs is a good deal higher," said study co-author Robert B. Voas, Ph.D., of the Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation in Calverton, Maryland.
 For the general public, the message is simple.
 The issue is more complicated, though, when it comes to lawmaking, according to the researchers.
 With alcohol, drivers' blood levels can be easily tested, and because studies have found that levels above a certain limit -- .08% -- impair driving, that blood alcohol concentration is the legal limit in all U.S. states.
 With other drugs, however, there are no agreed-upon levels that impair driving, and testing drivers is not straightforward.
 For one, certain drugs can linger in the body for days or weeks after they are used.
 Right now, states differ in how they tackle drugged driving.
 More than a dozen have drugged-driving "per se" laws.
 In most states, that means "zero tolerance" for any detectable amount of certain drugs in a driver's blood or urine.
 Last year, the White House announced that it would be encouraging more states to adopt drugged-driving per se laws.
 All states report drivers' blood alcohol levels, whereas 20 test for drugs.
 Between 1998 and 2009, there were more than 44,000 fatally injured drivers with drug-test information -- one quarter of whom tested positive for drugs.
 Marijuana and stimulant drugs including cocaine and methamphetamine were the most commonly implicated.
 It turned it out that stimulants were linked to all types of crash fatalities -- whether from speeding, failure to obey other traffic laws, inattention, or forgoing seatbelts.
 Marijuana, on the other hand, was tied only to speeding and seatbelt non-use.
 That lays out the possibility that stimulants are particularly impairing, but that's not yet clear, the researchers say.
 Whatever the effects of different drugs, alcohol still appears to be the biggest roadway hazard.
 This study found that, in general, other drugs seemed to be key only when drivers had not been drinking as well.
 That is, when someone drinks and does drugs, the alcohol is the main reason for impaired driving.
 "Alcohol is still the largest contributor to fatal crashes," Romano said.
 make a difference: sponsored opportunity           Story Source: Materials provided by Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs.
 Note: Content may be edited for style and length.
 Journal Reference:  Eduardo Romano, Robert B. Voas.
 Drug and Alcohol Involvement in Four Types of Fatal Crashes.
 Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs, 2011; [abstract]       Cite This Page:   MLA APA Chicago   Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs.
 "Deadly drugged driving: Drug use tied to fatal car crashes."
 ScienceDaily.
 ScienceDaily, 23 June 2011. .
 Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs.
 (2011, June 23).
 Deadly drugged driving: Drug use tied to fatal car crashes.
 ScienceDaily.
 Retrieved November 9, 2020 from www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/06/110623085953.htm Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs.
 "Deadly drugged driving: Drug use tied to fatal car crashes."
 ScienceDaily.
 www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/06/110623085953.htm (accessed November 9, 2020).
 Inexpensive features like steering wheel covers help lessen the impact of these conditions, yet ... Mixing Booze, Pot Is a Serious Threat to Traffic Safety  June 12, 2017 — Use of marijuana in combination with alcohol by drivers is especially dangerous, according to a study.
 Drivers who used alcohol, marijuana, or both were significantly more likely to be responsible ... Ignition Interlock Laws Reduce Alcohol-Involved Fatal Crashes  Jan. 5, 2017 — State laws requiring ignition interlocks for all drunk driving offenders appear to reduce the number of fatal drunk driving crashes, a new study ...
 Fatal Road Crashes Involving Marijuana Double After State Legalizes Drug  May 10, 2016 — Fatal crashes involving drivers who recently used marijuana doubled in Washington after the state legalized the drug, according to the latest research.
 New research also shows that legal limits for ...        FROM AROUND THE WEB  ScienceDaily shares links with sites in the TrendMD network and earns revenue from third-party advertisers, where indicated.
 Or view hourly updated newsfeeds in your RSS reader:    Email Newsletters    RSS Feeds     Follow Us  Keep up to date with the latest news from ScienceDaily via social networks:    Facebook    Twitter    LinkedIn     Have Feedback?
 Tell us what you think of ScienceDaily -- we welcome both positive and negative comments.
 Have any problems using the site?
 Questions?
 Leave Feedback    Contact Us        About This Site  |  Staff  |  Reviews  |  Contribute  |  Advertise  |  Privacy Policy  |  Editorial Policy  |  Terms of Use   Copyright 2020 ScienceDaily or by other parties, where indicated.
 All rights controlled by their respective owners.
 Content on this website is for information only.
 It is not intended to provide medical or other professional advice.
 Views expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of ScienceDaily, its staff, its contributors, or its partners.
 Financial support for ScienceDaily comes from advertisements and referral programs, where indicated.
 — CCPA: Do Not Sell My Information — — GDPR: Privacy Settings —
