Subscribe to syracuse.com.CoronavirusAs coronavirus patients cram NYC hospitals, Syracuse hospitals still have 300 empty bedsPosted Mar 30, 2020 Upstate University Hospital in Syracuse (Rick Moriarty / rmoriarty@syracuse.com) Rick Moriarty / rmoriarty@syracuRick Moriarty / rmoriarty@syracuFacebook ShareTwitter ShareBy       James T. Mulder | jmulder@syracuse.com      SYRACUSE, N.Y. -- As coronavirus patients overwhelm New York City hospitals, Syracuse’s three hospitals still have nearly 300 empty beds.Gov.
 Andrew Cuomo has suggested the state might move some patients upstate to relieve overcrowded New York City hospitals.Ron Lagoe, executive director of the Hospital Executive Council, said while Syracuse hospitals currently have room to spare, they want to make sure they can accommodate the growing number of local coronavirus patients.“This is a moving target and the patient census can change quickly,” Lagoe said.
 “We assume that before we make any commitments outside Onondaga County, we’ve got to make sure we can take care of the Central New York patients.”As of today, Onondaga County’s tally of confirmed coronavirus cases increased to 228, 23 of whom were hospitalized.Despite the local uptick in coronavirus patients, Syracuse hospitals still have plenty of capacity.Over the past three weeks, the combined average daily patient census at the three city hospitals has dropped 36 percent.As previously reported, the sharp drop in patients at city hospitals is due to cancellations of scheduled non-emergency surgeries, postponements of other hospital admissions and a decline in seasonal flu activity.Today’s census shows the three hospitals have 292 fewer patients than they did three weeks ago.The hospitals currently have 447 patients in medical-surgical beds used for routine care and 75 patients in intensive care and critical care beds, according to the Hospital Executive Council.
 Three weeks ago, the three hospitals had 704 patients in medical surgical beds and 110 in intensive care and critical care beds.The Hospital Executive Council, a Syracuse hospital planning agency, tracks the combined patient census for Upstate, St. Joe’s and Crouse hospitals every day.James T. Mulder covers health news.
 Have a news tip?
 Contact him at (315) 470-2245 or jmulder@syracuse.comNote to readers: if you purchase something through one of our affiliate links we may earn a commission.DisclaimerRegistration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement, Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement, and Your California Privacy Rights (each updated 1/1/20).© 2020 Advance Local Media LLC.
 All rights reserved (About Us).
 Andrew Cuomo has suggested the state might move some patients upstate to relieve overcrowded New York City hospitals.
 Three weeks ago, the three hospitals had 704 patients in medical surgical beds and 110 in intensive care and critical care beds.
 Have a news tip?
 Find photos and videos, comment on the news, and join the forum discussions at syracuse.com.
 Find photos and videos, comment on the news, and join the forum discussions at syracuse.com.
 One site under consideration is a parking lot across Adams Street from the hospital's recently opened Upstate Cancer Center.
 Find photos and videos, comment on the news, and join the forum discussions at syracuse.com.
 Watch videos, view photos and join political discussions at syracuse.com.
 Get local business listings and events.
 ","site_keywords":"Destiny USA, Destiny USA hotel, Carousel Center, Pyramid Mall, Revolutions Syracuse NY, Dave &amp; Buster’s Syracuse NY, 5 Wits Syracuse NY, Cantina Laredo Syracuse NY, Regal Cinemas Syracuse NY, IMAX Syracuse NY, Pole Position Raceway Syracuse NY, Melting Pot Syracuse NY, P.F.
 Find hours, sales, specials, and more.
 Find sci-tech news articles about Internet, computer, science, innovation and more.
 Read about car and truck recalls, antique and classic car features and automotive news from syracuse.com.
 Find school closings, high school sports updates, photos, videos and more at syracuse.com.
 Find construction and car accident alerts, traffic jams and backup reports at syracuse.com.
 Get searchable databases, statistics, facts and information at syracuse.com.
 Find Syracuse and Central New York police blotter and Onondaga County reported crimes.
 Find dining reviews and lists of the places to eat in CNY.
 From new cocktail recipes, to beers or wine get it all at syracuse.com.
 Vote for the best in CNY at syracuse.com.
 Find out what's new about your favorite movie actors, TV stars, and music artists.
 Get Hollywood news, photos, video &amp; more at Syracuse.com.
 Read your favorite comics from Comics Kingdom.
