Become a Member   Submit a Topic   Contact Us   Shop Snopes   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Videos   Archive   About Us   Randomizer    Become a Member              				Help Snopes.
 Become a Founding Member!
 Is Italy Calling for Bill Gates’ Arrest?
 While an Italian politician truly did call for Bill Gates to be arrested, this position has not been endorsed by the Italian government.
 Dan Evon       Published 18 May 2020           													Image via Mike Cohen/Getty Images for The New York Times                  				smg.ads.load( 'post-featured-1' ); 			    Claim  The government of Italy is calling for the arrest of Bill Gates.
 Rating         Mostly False About this rating      What's True While giving a speech, a single Italian politician called for former Microsoft CEO Bill Gates to be arrested.
 What's False This position has not been endorsed by the Italian government as a whole.
 Do you rely on Snopes reporting?
 Become a member today.
 smg.ads.load( 'rating-1' ); 			    Origin  As governments fight the COVID-19 pandemic, Snopes is fighting an “infodemic” of rumors and misinformation, and you can help.
 Read our coronavirus fact checks.
 Submit any questionable rumors and “advice” you encounter.
 Become a Founding Member to help us hire more fact-checkers.
 And, please, follow the CDC or WHO for guidance on protecting your community from the disease.
 In May 2020, a video started to circulate online that supposedly showed an Italian politician calling for the arrest of Bill Gates, the former Microsoft CEO who has been at the center of several conspiracy theories due to his foundation’s work to develop a vaccine for the COVID-19 coronavirus disease pandemic.
 This video was frequently shared on social media with the caption, “Italian Government call for arrest of Bill Gates”:      This is a genuine video of an Italian politician calling for Gates’ arrest.
 However, a single politician’s opinion does not equate to the entire Italian government calling for action.
 In fact, this view has been condemned by Italian government officials (you can hear this politician being told “enough” and to be quiet during the video).
 She’s part of Italy’s “5 Star Movement,” a political party that has been blamed for a rise of measles in Italy after pushing an anti-vaccination agenda.
 Cunial, who was briefly suspended from the party in 2018 after likening vaccines to “free genocide” in a Facebook post, was fined in April 2020 for violating one of the country’s shelter-in place policies to visit a beach.
 (Cunial claims she was never fined.)
 Cunial’s speech before the Italian Parliament hit on a number of popular (and discredited) conspiracy theories regarding COVID-19.
 For instance, she linked the spread of the disease to the rise of 5G technology, claimed that Gates was working to de-populate the world, and said that the “ID2020” coalition was working to secretly implement digital microchips via mandatory vaccines.
 Cunial also fabricated a quote from Gates.
 After claiming that this was an “exact quote” from a Gates’ speech, Cunial falsely said that the former Microsoft CEO once stated, “If we do a good job on vaccines, health and reproduction, we can reduce the world population by 10-15%.
 Only a genocide can save the world.” Not only is this a fabricated quote, it illustrates a common misconception about Gates’ work related to global population.
 The former Microsoft CEO is working to lower child mortality, improve the health of poorer populations, and give people better access to contraceptives.
 In other words, Gates is not trying to use vaccines to kill children.
 Rather, he is hoping that a lower child mortality rate and better supportive programs will reduce the need for parents to have more children.
 Gates articulated his goals in a 2009 letter from the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation: A surprising but critical fact we learned was that reducing the number of deaths actually reduces population growth.
 […] Contrary to the Malthusian view that population will grow to the limit of however many kids can be fed, in fact parents choose to have enough kids to give them a high chance that several will survive to support them as they grow old.
 As the number of kids who survive to adulthood goes up, parents can achieve this goal without having as many children.
 Not only was Cunial’s speech littered with conspiracy theories, the politician also blamed Italy’s leadership for allowing dogmatic scientism to become the “true cultural epidemic” of this country.
 This comment created some blowback (Cunial curiously claimed that she was not referring to Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte) and some politicians urged her to apologize for the remark.
 Vice President of the Chamber of Deputies Mara Carfagna wrote on Twitter: “Connecting phantom plots to the Head of State is unworthy of an institutional representative.”  Sostenere teorie assurde e infondate a @Montecitorio è grave, soprattutto in una emergenza sanitaria.Collegare fantomatici complotti al Capo dello Stato è indegno di un rappresentante istituzionale.Il Presidente Mattarella è un solido presidio di libertà e democrazia.#Cunial — Mara Carfagna (@mara_carfagna) May 14, 2020  In sum, it is true that an Italian politician spouted a number of conspiracy theories and called for the arrest of Gates during an address to Parliament.
 However, this viewpoint was not widely endorsed by the Italian government.
 Snopes.com   Since 1994     Help Supercharge Snopes For 2020  				We have big plans.
 We need your help.
 Become a member!
 Published 18 May 2020   By   Dan Evon     Filed Under   COVID-19       Sources        Vecchio, di Concetto.
 “Coronavirus, La Deputata No Vax Fermata a Ostia: “Vaccinarmi Contro il Covid-19?
 Perché Dovrei?”     La Repubblica.
 14 April 2020.
 Gates Foundation.
 “Annual Letter 2009.”     2009.
 Angeli, Federica.
 “Sara Cunial: “Vado al Mare, Sono Una Parlamentare.” L’ex Grillina No Vax Multata Sulla Strada per Ostia.”     La Repubblica.
 13 April 2020.
 New York Times.
 “Populism, Politics and Measles.”     2 May 2017.
 Grasso, Di Aldo.
 “Cunial, L’Eguaglianza (Fanatica) Dei Diseguali.”     Corriere Della Sera.
 17 May 2020.
 Mari, Lara.
 “Coronavirus, La Deputata No Vax Cunial Contro il Capo Dello Stato.
 “Ma Parlavo di Napolitano”.
 La Camera Valuta L’ipotesi Vilipendio.”     La Repubblica.
 14 May 2020.                  				smg.ads.load( 'post-footer-1' ); 			    Editors' Picks         Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 Did DHS Secretly Watermark Ballots in an Election Fraud Sting Against Dems?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Discussing election mechanics is easier when you actually know how elections work.
 Can State Legislatures Override the Choice of Presidential Electors?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   The electoral college is a unique system for indirectly electing the president of the United States.
 Has Starbucks Sold a ‘Christmas Blend’ Since 1984?
 6 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Since at least 2015, the popular coffee chain has faced accusations of being "anti-Christmas."
 Snopes Fact-Checks the 2020 US Election, Live    															5 November 2020													  							Collections						   Lies don't wait — and neither does Snopes.
 Did a Fox 2 Detroit Report Expose Voter Fraud in the 2020 Election?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   An image graphic detailing an assortment of potential election crimes was shared on social media the day after the 2020 presidential election.
 Was the 2020 U.S. Presidential Election Winner Announced Yet?
 7 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   For days, the world waited to see who American voters want to serve as the 46th president of the United States — Donald Trump or Joe Biden.
 Were Trump Ballots Marked with Sharpies Disqualified in Arizona?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Arizona was one of several states apparently won by Joe Biden in 2020 that were targeted by election-related conspiracy theories.
 Was a Moving Van Parked Outside White House After Election Day?
 4 November 2020													  							Fact Check						   Filler footage from C-SPAN went viral.
 View all        				smg.ads.load( 'side-2' ); 			     Snopes.com needs your help.Become a member today.
 Learn How          				smg.ads.load( 'side-3' ); 			            				smg.ads.load( 'footer-1' ); 			            Navigate   Home   Search   Archive   Store   FAQ   Submit a Topic     Sections   What's New   Hot 50   Fact Checks   News   Randomizer     Company   About Us   Support Us   Careers   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy   Cookie Policy   Don't Sell My Info   Consent Preferences   Ad Preferences      © 1995 - 2020 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
 This material may not be reproduced without permission.
 Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com              	 No results for:  	   	   		 Your search did not yield any results.
 Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
 One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific.
 Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
 If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us.
 We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
 The maximum query length is 500 characters.
 See the whole collection.
 Support Us       					You rely on Snopes, and we rely on you.
 Help preserve this vital resource.
 Give with PayPal Give with GoFundMe           				smg.ads.load( 'sticky-1' );
