How do I know which stores I can visit?
 A: Some of our retail stores are now open.
 Please check apple.com/retail for the latest on store re-openings and operating hours.
 Q: How is physical distancing practiced at Apple Store locations?
 A: In every store, we’re limiting occupancy and giving everyone lots of room, while renewing our focus on Genius Support and one‑on‑one, personalized service throughout the store.
 We have reduced the number of products on display in our stores so customers can shop and browse while maintaining a safe distance between themselves and others.
 Not all of our stores have resumed full operations.
 Please check the status of your nearest Apple Store at apple.com/retail.
 You can get all the same great products and services from our online store with free no-contact delivery, and one-on-one shopping help from a Specialist via Chat, or by calling 1‑800‑MY‑APPLE.
 Shop Apple Store online.
 Q: Will I have to wait in line?
 A: At Apple Store locations that have fully reopened for shopping and Genius Support, you may experience short wait times before being allowed to enter the store.
 To maintain physical distancing, we are limiting store occupancy and giving everyone lots of room.
 Not all of our stores have resumed full operations.
 Please check the status of your nearest Apple Store at apple.com/retail.
 Q: Can I get Genius Support at an Apple Store?
 A: The best way to get Genius Support is to make an appointment before visiting the store.
 Go to getsupport.apple.com to schedule an appointment.
 To change your Genius Support appointment, you can also go to mysupport.apple.com or use the link provided in your confirmation email.
 Not all of our stores have resumed in-store Genius Support.
 Please check the status of your nearest Apple Store at apple.com/retail.
 If you need Genius Support sooner, you can get help from our experts via phone, chat, or email at getsupport.apple.com.
 Q: Will I have to wear a mask when I visit an Apple Store?
 A: Yes.
 Face masks will be required for all of our teams and customers while visiting an Apple Store, and we will provide them to customers who don’t bring their own.
 N95 masks with valves, and masks that do not cover your nose and extend below your chin— such as bandanas, are not permitted at Apple Stores.
 Replacement masks will be provided as needed.
 Q: What does contactless temperature check mean?
 A: Before you enter an Apple Store, we will take your temperature using a thermometer that does not touch the skin to ensure that it measures below 37.5° C (99.5° F).
 No data from this procedure will be recorded.
 Prior to your store visit, please ask yourself the following health-related questions: Do I currently have a fever, chills, muscle or body aches?
 Do I currently have a cough or am I experiencing any respiratory issues?
 Do I have a headache, sore throat, runny nose, or congestion?
 Am I experiencing any nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea?
 Have I been in contact with any suspected or confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the last 14 days?
 If you answered YES to any of these please visit at a later date.
 You can get all the same great products and services from our online store with free no-contact delivery, and one-on-one shopping help from a Specialist via Chat, or by calling 1‑800‑MY‑APPLE.
 Shop Apple Store online.
 Not all of our stores have resumed full operations.
 Please check the status of your nearest Apple Store at apple.com/retail.
 Q: What protocols are you following to keep Apple Store locations clean?
 A: Throughout the day, we’re conducting enhanced deep cleanings that place special emphasis on all surfaces, display products, and highly trafficked areas.
 Devices that are passed back and forth between our team members and customers are wiped down before and after each use.
 We also conduct enhanced deep cleanings of our stores at night.
 Q: Will I be able to browse?
 Try the products?
 Go into the store?
 A: You can shop, browse, and try out products at Apple Store locations that have fully reopened.
 We’re focused on limiting occupancy in every store, so you may experience short wait times before being allowed to enter.
 We have reduced the number of products on display in our stores so customers can shop and browse while maintaining a safe distance between themselves and others.
 In order to ensure the safety of our customers and team members we are currently limiting personal set up sessions in stores.
 You can learn how to set up your products and transfer your data at support.apple.com.
 Not all of our stores are open for shopping yet.
 Please check the status of your nearest Apple Store at apple.com/retail.
 You can get all the same great products and services from our online store with free no-contact delivery, and one-on-one shopping help from a Specialist via Chat, or by calling 1‑800‑MY‑APPLE.
 Shop Apple Store online.
 Q: Can I come by and pick up a product without going into an Apple Store?
 A: Many of our stores have pickup in front of the store or curbside pickup available for online orders.
 When you place your order online you will see pickup options for stores near you.
 You may be required to choose a time window for picking up your order.
 We’ll email you detailed pickup instructions and send you a text and email when your order is ready.
 You can also check the status of your order in the Apple Store App or at apple.com/orderstatus.
 You can find the opening hours and status of your nearest Apple Store at apple.com/retail.
 Q: Can I return or exchange my product at my local Apple Store?
 A: For products purchased online, you can start a no-contact return at apple.com/orderstatus.
 For purchases made at an Apple Store, you can return your product within 14 days after the store reopens.
 Some stores may be open for curbside pickup with limited support and are unable to complete returns at this time.
 If your local store has only curbside pickup available, you can return your product once the store has fully reopened.
 You can check your local store hours and status at apple.com/retail.
 Q: How can I return an order I bought online while under shelter-in-place orders?
 A: Start a return online at apple.com/orderstatus, where you can create a return shipping label to ship your product from a drop off point or schedule a pickup at your location.
 Q: How can I receive delivery of my online order safely?
 Is there an option for no‑contact delivery?
 Once you have a tracking link for your shipment, visit the carrier’s website to learn more or to take action to manage your delivery.
 For example, your driver may ask for verbal confirmation of receipt from a safe distance to satisfy the signature requirement, or may leave lower-cost shipments at your door without a signature required.
 To learn more about your specific delivery options, use the tracking link for your shipment available at apple.com/orderstatus.
 Q: My local Apple store has re-opened and I’ve placed an order to pick up in store.
 What safety measures can I expect when I arrive?
 A: To ensure a healthy environment, physical distancing measures may result in delayed store entry.
 Temperature checks and masks may be required to enter the store.
 And, your pick up will be no contact.
 Please check apple.com/retail for your local store hours, or call us at 1‑800‑MY‑APPLE.
 Q: Can I still place a new order with Apple?
 A: Yes.
 For purchases with free contactless delivery, shop online at apple.com/shop or with the Apple Store app.
 You can also place an order and select a time for contactless pickup at your nearest open Apple Store.
 Q: How do I complete a trade-in while stores are closed?
 A: We’ve made it easy to trade in an eligible device online.
 Just answer a few questions regarding the brand, model, and condition of your device.
 We’ll provide an estimated trade-in value or a simple way to recycle it.
 If you accept the trade-in estimate online, we’ll arrange for you to send us your old device.
 Once we receive it, we’ll inspect it and verify its condition.
 If everything checks out, we’ll credit your original purchase method.
 If you choose to trade in for a gift card, we’ll send you an Apple Store Gift Card via email.
 Go to apple.com/trade-in to start your trade in.
 Q: My device is at an Apple Store for repair.
 When can I get it?
 A: You will be able to collect your device once your Apple Store reopens.
 If your repair is not yet complete, we may need additional time after we reopen.
 You will be contacted once the store re-opens and your device is ready, and will receive instructions on how to pick up your device.
 Q: What’s the status of my repair?
 A: You can check the status of a repair online at support.apple.com/repair.
 Q: I need to get my device repaired.
 How can I do that if retail stores are closed?
 A: You can start a repair online or contact support at support.apple.com.
 Q: Can I participate in a Today at Apple session at an Apple Store?
 A: We've temporarily paused Today at Apple programming in our stores, but are excited to offer creative projects you can do at home with Today at Apple at Home.
 Please visit apple.com/today/feature/today-at-home.
 Apple     Temporary Retail Store Closures          Shop and Learn  Open Menu Close Menu        Mac         iPad         iPhone         Apple Watch         TV         Music         iTunes         HomePod         iPod touch         Apple Card         Accessories         Gift Cards          Apple Store  Open Menu Close Menu        Find a Store         Shop Online         Genius Bar         Today at Apple         Youth Programs         Apple Store App         Refurbished and Clearance         Financing         Apple Trade In         Order Status         Shopping Help          For Education  Open Menu Close Menu        Apple and Education         Shop for College        For Business  Open Menu Close Menu        Apple and Business         Shop for Business        Government  Open Menu Close Menu        Shop for Government         Shop for Veterans &amp; Military          For Healthcare  Open Menu Close Menu        Apple in Healthcare         Health on Apple Watch         Health Records on iPhone        Apple Values  Open Menu Close Menu        Accessibility         Education         Environment         Inclusion and Diversity         Privacy         Supplier Responsibility          Account  Open Menu Close Menu        Manage Your Apple ID         Apple Store Account         iCloud.com        About Apple  Open Menu Close Menu        Newsroom         Apple Leadership         Job Opportunities         Investors         Events         Contact Apple         More ways to shop: Find an Apple Store or other retailer near you.
 Or call 1‑800‑MY‑APPLE.
 United States          Copyright © 2020 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
 Privacy PolicyTerms of UseSales and RefundsLegalSite Map          SALES &amp; REFUND TERMS AND CONDITIONS (“TERMS”)  U.S.
 Sales and Refund Policy Thanks for shopping at Apple.
 We appreciate the fact that you like to buy the cool stuff we build.
 We also want to make sure you have a rewarding experience while you’re exploring, evaluating, and purchasing our products, whether you’re at the Apple Online Store, in an Apple Retail Store, or on the phone with the Apple Contact Center.
 (To make it visually easier on both of us, we’ll refer to these entities as the “Apple Store” in this policy.)
 As with any shopping experience, there are terms and conditions that apply to transactions at an Apple Store.
 We’ll be as brief as our attorneys will allow.
 The main thing to remember is that by placing an order or making a purchase at an Apple Store, you agree to the terms set forth below along with Apple’s Privacy Policy (Opens in a new window) and Terms of Use(Opens in a new window).
 Standard Return Policy We fundamentally believe you will be thrilled with the products you purchase from the Apple Store.
 That’s because we go out of our way to ensure that they’re designed and built to be just what you need.
 We understand, however, that sometimes a product may not be what you expected it to be.
 In that unlikely event, we invite you to review the following terms related to returning a product.
 For any undamaged product, simply return it with its included accessories and packaging along with the original receipt (or gift receipt) within 14 days of the date you receive the product, and we’ll exchange it or offer a refund based upon the original payment method.
 In addition, please note the following:   Products can be returned only in the country or region in which they were originally purchased.
 The following products are not eligible for return: electronic software downloads, subscriptions to the Software-Up-To-Date program, Apple Store Gift Cards, and any Apple Developer Connection products.
 For returns to an Apple Retail Store for cash, cash equivalent, and check transactions over $750, Apple will mail a refund check to you within 10 business days.
 Should you wish to return ten or more of the same product, you must return to the Apple Store where originally purchased.
 In the case of items returned with a gift receipt, Apple will offer you an Apple Gift Card.
 Opened software cannot be returned if it contained a seal with the software license on the outside of the package and you could read the software license before opening its packaging.
 As an exception, you may return Apple-branded software if you do not agree to the licensing terms; however, you may not retain or otherwise use any copies of returned software.
 Apple provides security features to enable you to protect your product in case of loss or theft.
 If these features have been activated and cannot be disabled by the person in possession of the phone, Apple may refuse the return or exchange.
 For complete details on how to return a product purchased at the Apple Store please visit the Returns &amp; Refunds (Opens in a new window) page.
 Return of AppleCare+ under an iPhone Upgrade Program Should you return the AppleCare+ portion of your iPhone Upgrade Program, please note that you will lose your Upgrade Option as set forth under the terms of the iPhone Upgrade Program(Opens in a new window).
 iPhone, iPad and Watch Returns - Wireless Service Cancellation Wireless carriers have different service cancellation policies.
 Returning your iPhone, iPad or Watch may not automatically cancel or reset your wireless account; you are responsible for your wireless service agreement and for any applicable fees associated with your wireless account.
 Please contact your wireless service provider for more information.
 Apple Watch Returns Apple Watch from the Edition collection may only be returned or exchanged if it’s in its original, undamaged and unmarked condition after passing inspection at Apple’s offsite facility.
 Depending on your original form of tender, a check, wire transfer, or refund to your debit/credit card will be issued within 10 business days provided the returned item is in its original condition.
 Additional Apple Product Terms The purchase and use of Apple products are subject to additional terms and conditions found at https://www.apple.com/legal/sla/ (Opens in a new window) and https://www.apple.com/legal/warranty/(Opens in a new window).
 Making unauthorized modifications to the software on an iPhone violates the iPhone software license agreement.
 The common term for modifying an iPhone is jail-breaking, with a particular emphasis on the second part of that term.
 That’s why we strongly, almost emphatically, recommend that you do not do so.
 Really.
 Should you be unable to use your iPhone due to an unauthorized software modification, its repair will not be covered under the warranty.
 Pricing and Price Reductions/Corrections Apple reserves the right to change prices for products displayed at/on the Apple Store at any time, and to correct pricing errors that may inadvertently occur.
 Additional information about pricing and sales tax is available on the Payment &amp; Pricing (Opens in a new window) page.
 In the event you have been charged more than the posted price for a product in an Apple Retail Store, please see a Manager for a refund of the overcharge.
 Should Apple reduce its price on any Apple-branded product within 14 calendar days from the date you receive your product, feel free to visit an Apple Retail Store or contact the Apple Contact Center at 1-800-676-2775 to request a refund or credit of the difference between the price you were charged and the current selling price.
 To receive the refund or credit you must contact Apple within 14 calendar days of the price change.
 Please note that this excludes limited-time price reductions, such as those that occur during special sales events, such as Black Friday or Cyber Monday.
 Price protection is only available for up to 10 units of a particular product.
 Additionally, we may require that you have the product with you or otherwise have proof of possession when requesting price protection.
 Prices shown are in U.S. dollars.
 If you are paying for your order with an international Visa, MasterCard, or American Express credit card, please note that the purchase price may fluctuate with exchange rates.
 In addition, your bank or credit card issuer may also charge you foreign conversion charges and fees, which may also increase the overall cost of your purchase.
 Please contact your bank or credit card issuer regarding these fees.
 Order Acceptance/Confirmation Apple may, in its sole discretion, refuse or cancel any order and limit order quantity.
 Apple may also require additional qualifying information prior to accepting or processing any order.
 Once we receive your Online or Call Center order, we’ll provide you with an email order confirmation.
 Your receipt of an order confirmation, however, does not signify Apple’s acceptance of your order, nor does it constitute confirmation of our offer to sell; we are simply confirming that we received your order.
 The Apple Store reserves the right at any time after receiving your order to accept or decline your order for any reason.
 If Apple cancels an order after you have already been billed, Apple will refund the billed amount.
 Shipping &amp; Delivery Please review the Shipping &amp; Pickup (Opens in a new window) page to learn about how and when you will receive the products you purchased from the Apple Store.
 Since the actual delivery of your order can be impacted by many events beyond Apple’s control once it leaves our facilities, Apple cannot be held liable for late deliveries.
 We will, however, work with you to ensure a smooth delivery.
 As Apple takes care of the dispatch of the products you purchase on the Apple Store, the risk of loss of, or damage to, product(s) shall pass to you when you, or a person designated by you, acquires physical possession of the product(s).
 Title in the product(s) shall pass to you when the product(s) is picked up by the carrier from our warehouse.
 At this point, you will receive the Shipment Notification Email.
 If there are any issues with delivery, please contact Apple to resolve.
 In-Store Pickup and Return Apple offers in-store pickup for many of the items available on the Online Store.
 Certain products and payment methods, however, may not qualify for in-store pickup.
 Only you or the person designated by you may pick up the item(s) purchased.
 A government-issued photo ID and order number will be required for pickup.
 Apple will notify you when your order is ready and the date by which you need to pick up your items.
 We’ll also send you a reminder or two, just in case it slips your mind.
 If you don’t pick up your order, Apple may cancel it.
 Please click here (Opens in a new window) for complete details about in-store pickup.
 Pickup Contact If you select in-store pickup, you may designate a third party to pick up your order.
 You must provide the name and email address of the third party.
 Please note that certain products and payment methods are not eligible for in-store pickup by a third party.
 The third party will need to bring a government issued photo ID and order number for pickup.
 Apple is not responsible for actions taken by the third party once your item(s) have been picked up.
 Consumers Only The Apple Store sells and ships products to end-user customers only, and we reserve the right to refuse or cancel your order if we suspect you are purchasing products for resale.
 U.S.
 Shipping Only Products purchased online from Apple will only be shipped to addresses within the U.S. and are subject to U.S. and foreign export control laws and regulations.
 Products must be purchased, sold, exported, re-exported, transferred, and used in compliance with these export laws and regulations.
 To purchase Apple products online from outside of the U.S., please click here for international store information.
 Product Availability and Limitations Given the popularity and/or supply constraints of some of our products, Apple may have to limit the number of products available for purchase.
 Trust us, we’re building them as fast as we can.
 Apple reserves the right to change quantities available for purchase at any time, even after you place an order.
 Furthermore, there may be occasions when Apple confirms your order but subsequently learns that it cannot supply the ordered product.
 In the event we cannot supply a product you ordered, Apple will cancel the order and refund your purchase price in full.
 Gift Cards For Apple Store Gift Card Terms and Conditions, please click here(Opens in a new window).
